ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36853	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of the amendment to Article 3 refers to investments in the housing to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on the 2030 Agenda. I think it is clear here to all MPs, given that we have the focus of a group relating to sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda which we are, as members of the UN, in some obligation to implement by 2030. One of the most important objectives, i.e. points of the agenda, is the number 11 that speaks of sustainable cities and communities. In line with this law, what we can find is that investments in housing in 2012 fell to 40%, which accounted for a very low percentage in total GDP, from 2012 to today production, i.e. the production of goods and services alone exceeded construction in general, and therefore the percentage of GDP participation was around 17.7% in the last year. Obviously, the fast and efficient activities of the building ministry have been developed to speed up this participation in investment when it comes to building to 25% in order to have one macroeconomic stability and that is now the moment. This law was essentially the idea of political holders of the most important functions such as the Serbian government president and Mr. Vukic and today Mrs. Ana Brnabic, but it was necessary to achieve an economic framework for such a thing to implement economic reforms, fiscal consolidation and reach the point of having a surplus in the budget, so that you could finance project activities for investments such as in this year over a million euros, that in the following year and in the second and third years of investment, you would end up with that first phase of 1.578 apartments. Since yesterday we had a chance to hear that some of the opposition are not clear whether there will be five thousand 200 apartments or 1,578 apartments. So that replacement thesis simply in the public and trying to make a good project like this even for the state will simply not go away, because all the MPs here will want to show, each of them from their own perspective, that this kind of law, this kind of strategic project for the state of Serbia, will certainly give good results, and that the 2030 Agenda and the goals of state development will certainly go through its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36854	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Jevtić's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36855	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the Honored People's MPs, for the proposed legislative solution, I submit an amendment further defining Article 3(1). The draft law in terms of the link and impact of investment in the housing on the even development of the Republic of Serbia. I would once again like to commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry for the proposed legislative solution in which it solves the housing problems of employees in the security services and proclaiming the Institute of Public Interest as a way towards a faster solution to the mentioned problem. The adoption of this law, in addition to seeking to address the largest number of outstanding housing needs of security personnel, will significantly contribute to GDP growth in the area of construction, the employment of the domestic construction industry, employment growth, VAT income growth on various grounds, the increase in property tax revenues, the reduction of time needed to complete administrative procedures, the reduction of administrative burdens. From what has been said in advance, investments in the apartment for security employees will certainly start in the positive direction of all parts of the Republic of Serbia. The security sector may be the only one who, due to the nature of the work that is being done on the entire territory of the country, will have an impact on overall equal development in all areas of social life in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment is certainly the support and idea of a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia, I have already repeated this several times in previous exhibitions, so I ask you to support this amendment, which further defines Article 3 as a sign of support for this idea, in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36856	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Ljubiška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36857	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, no previous government was prepared to address the problem of building apartments for members of the Security Service. The result of all this is that today we have more than 30,000 members of the security service who have an unresolved housing issue. The law is passed in order to finally solve the problem, and it can be realised, as Serbia has moved forward since 2012, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia is in surplus, GDP growth is present because the funds amounting to 64,355,716 euros for the construction of 1,578 apartments are already provided. A number of construction sites will be opened, with the realization of this project, and right here we see that investment in the school system or dual education finds a broad application not only in the area of broad application, not only in the area of construction but also in other areas that will be used in the realisation of this project, i.e. Building apartments for members of the security service. All of this can be done because today this country is led by serious people led by Alexander Vukic, people who primarily care about their citizens and create a better future for young generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36858	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. There you go, buddy Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36859	President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister-in-Office of the Government with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 3(1). The bill is added to point 15 – investment in housing provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of medical centres. The amendment further defines the terms of the proposal for this law. Today, he would say a few words about Novi Sad, the oldest active hospital in Europe, last year celebrated 231 years of existence. The defence ministry will obtain all the equipment for its development, and at the celebration of the jubilee, it is said that all military insurance companies will be taken care of, will not be deprived of their medicine and that the system of military health will be improved. As for employees in the military health system through future legal solutions, above all about the Army Act, which was adopted a few days ago, their status will be improved in every sense. In the system of military health, 3800 health workers in one year provide about 115,000 military insurance and about 300,000 civilians. At this point, 60 of our doctors are in peace forces around the world, taking care and caring for the health of many. So the employees of the VMC have sacrificed their time, care and knowledge, whether it's a military insurance or a civilian. The military hospital of VMC Novi Sad has been military since 1886, which remains today, and it is important because the only stationary institution in Vojvodina has never interrupted work and accordingly, the first one has always been in defence lines. The first took care of the wounded, took care of the prisoners as well as their warriors. Also, they first organized an insulator for bird flu disease during the Exit maintenance. They accepted surgical patients during the flood in Srem. For the sixth year, VMC has been in the network of health institutions of the AP Vojvodina, and since 1 January 2018, it has changed and officially bears the name Novi Sad Military Hospital, and is also becoming a teaching base of the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad. She normally covers a secondary level of health care, because Novi Sad doesn't have a city hospital. The Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and the Institute of Sremska Kamenica is quite relieved and is of great importance for the protection of the entire district, including the entire Vojvodina. But health workers working at the VMC are also concerned with unresolved housing issues, and they are interested in buying apartments in a project to build apartments for security forces, as 400 such apartments are scheduled to be built in Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36860	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. My colleague Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36861	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, investment in housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the tax liability - is an amendment that I have submitted to Article 3. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the realisation of the housing project for members of the security forces, to which point 15 is added Investments in the construction project for security forces, which were planned for the 2018 only by around 220m euros, will certainly be a significant momentum primarily for the development of the construction industry, as well as for the development of the country as a whole. The adoption of the proposed law and the launch of a new housing project will bring about a multiple benefit which will contribute to the employment of companies, legal entities and other interested persons, in addition to the resolution of the housing issues of staff in the security services and military pensioners. The importance of passing this law in order to address the long-standing problems of residential security forces is also the public interest of the Republic of Serbia in strengthening the national security system. It is also important for the proposed legal solutions to be regulated both by members of the security forces and other state bodies with the aim of equating procedures and procedures in the project to invest housing. Therefore, when it comes to investment in this housing, it is also important to mention the control role of the competent authorities in the implementation of the project in order for investment funds to be used in the most rational manner in accordance with the procedures. Such an approach would result in a projected effect that costs are less than positive effects. With all this in mind in the voting day, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36862	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36863	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister, the law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, should in fact only be the beginning of a major project, the beginning of a project in which Serbia should solve the problem of housing for, first of all, employees in the state sector, and later on, the project should be passed on to the functioning of local administrations. We need to look at how housing works everywhere in the world. I would like to set an example of Vienna, where this system means, whatever you call a different safe home, not only for employees in the state administration, but for all citizens of Serbia. When we talk here about this law, then we usually talk about the effects it will have on the economy, or macroeconomic parameters, and we usually talk about the level of material that will be spent on the effects on the infrastructure, the overall effect that will be assumed, the operation of the gross product and VAT. But what is forgotten is certainly an impact that will have on the fiscal system, that is, the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. Somehow, it goes past the attention of the fact that the banking sector in Serbia will have a new market, a new segment of the safe market for over 200m euros, at the first moment. Of course it should be used. Cheap loans at this point are the result of only two levels. A low-euribor level at a negative rate and above all the functioning of the Serbian state, i.e. fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic policies. When you have a bb credit rating, it means that Serbia is likely never in its history to be in debt for housing loans at 2.9%. These are the conditions we need to take advantage of and it is certainly in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, above all, and then the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, to pass such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36864	The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's my colleague Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36865	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 3(1). Proposal for a law, I propose adding point 15 – investment in the housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what you can see every day when you come to this house, from any direction, is that the capital of Serbia has become a major site. That is what private investors, contractors and subcontractors say. The volume of work and housing, not only in Belgrade but also in other cities in Serbia, has been renaissance in the victory of the SNS authorities. What is most important is that people work, invest large funds in building buildings and other buildings and that working methods are established according to the most modern European standards. We are witnessing that in Arangelovac too has gone seriously to develop this type of business, after a few decades of full stagnation and that the demand for real estate is really high. All this affects the development of economy and tourism. There is no chance of making progress unless we give all our attention to what is called market demand, and we have witnessed that in a few years our cities will look better and better and thanks to the laws that we bring here. It is something that is a practice in most of these countries where citizens show a high degree of desire to be familiar with their country's capacity, to monitor the population's wishes and promote construction with new technologies and the visual appearance of the facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36866	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Comrade Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36867	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, respected gentlemen from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, as we know, in Article 3, some expressions used in the law such as individual location, housing complex, housing building for collective housing, etc. So, in Article 3 paragraph 1. The bill adds point 15, which reads: "The investment in the housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving health conditions". At the request of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, all six cities provided information on the necessary investments in selected locations and necessary investments to the complex border. Local self-government units provided complete questionnaires with requested information on potential construction locations. Systematization and analysis of the data delivered have been performed and the most favourable locations have been selected to begin the implementation of this project as early as possible. In this sense, we need to talk about the realization of the hygiene minimum of housing. Apartments should be built on suitable ground and on the ground which is pre-prepared for building residential buildings. Such a terrain should lie in a favourable residential zone. Living blocks covering dozens of apartments, even when they are freely placed and properly oriented, represent a more hygienically poor way of living. The construction of very tall residential buildings has been becoming more intense lately. The fact is that they sensually contribute to the alienation of people from the natural environment and to the alienation of their inhabitants. Health education work should focus on getting to know the public with the dangers of poor housing and understanding of the hygiene minimum so that it is not considered a luxury, but to become a value for which society will be willing to allocate a large part of its assets, made by investing 64,355,716 euros. This was promised in the previous government of Alexander Vukic, and now we come to the realization of that promise. Given that the amendment and amendments I have submitted define an improvement in the health conditions of housing, I believe that in the voting day these amendments should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36868	Thank you. National MP Mihajlo Jokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Vujadinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36869	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected representatives of the government, I have talked a lot about what has happened in some past time and about the defence system and security forces in the Republic of Serbia, but also about our people and the country as a whole and about Serbia's disarmament, about the collapse of morals in security forces and about the lack of social status of all members of the security forces, which ultimately had very great repercussions when it comes to the security and security of the Republic of Serbia. The truth about the will, respected minister, is not a different situation either when it comes to major state investments, infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia. The situation today is really difficult, but the shifts are seen from the point of view of the ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia. This is certainly the result of the efforts made by both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today, after a long, long, stable political situation, respected Serbia both in Beijing and Moscow, if, in the end, you will end up in Washington with one dose of greater understanding, and this certainly affects stability in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore also conditions to improve the status of all of these categories we talked about. Here, after decades of 50m euros, we invest in a defence, or military industry when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. We've renovated vehicles and equipment for the Home Office. The number of construction sites in Serbia is thousands. This is, of course, due to the simplification of procedures in matters of building permits, etc. In addition to the work of all state authorities, however, the precondition for this is also the permanent fight against crime, as using and such criminal acts, much of the money in Serbia was poured into the private pockets of the then Serbian lords and all these branches and all these areas were lagging behind. That is why I was also led when I tabled this amendment which, above all, has an intensities to Article 3 concerning the fight against crime, above all, for the sake of more effective development and continued development of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36870	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mother, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36871	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the project and the construction of apartments for members of the security forces. This member defines the concepts of the law mentioned, and I submitted this amendment to further define the concept of investment and link it to the efficiency of local self-government. In 2012, DS concluded a purchase contract with the Ministry of Defence for the purchase of a barracks for the astronomical 900 000 euros and released it from the city and secondary facilities for a crowd. The Democrats then announced a number of projects to be implemented at the barracks facility, various investments, wellness centres, and even the opening of prisons and women's, under the pretext that the arrest will always be full and that surrounding shops and local facilities will work because of visits to women's prison. However, the only thing left after the Democrats in Kikinda are debts and devastationed buildings, but today, in one part of the barracks is the Museum of Contemporary Art Tara, which opened last year, thanks to both the money and the state and the province and local self-government. The museum, which we Kickinians are extremely proud of, represents the largest collection of large-format terracotta in the area of contemporary art in the world. Our Kickinda, a city in northern Banata, has come to the world's cultural map because of the opening of this museum, which, of course, represents an effective local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36872	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36873	The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today when we have achieved the economic growth that is measured by GDP, is 4.5% and we can certainly talk about economic development, so in this regard I have submitted this amendment, which speaks of the impact of housing on economic development. Our government achieved impressive results with responsible policy and responsible measures and exhaustive work in the previous period. We've achieved surplus in the budget, we've achieved economic growth, we've reduced the unemployment rate, we've opened over 90 factories, we've opened over 180,000 jobs, we've reduced the profit gap between the private sector and the public sector, which is very important. So we're building an economy on a healthy basis. We hire people in private, not in the public sector, as was the case before. Then we build roads, build railroads, build infrastructure. In one word, we've overcome all the problems that the previous regime has left us, which, of course, are accumulated debts and all the other problems. When it comes to housing, not just for security forces, not only does it have a positive impact on improving the living standard of members of the security forces, but it will positively reflect on all other citizens in Serbia, and that actually means, despite the fact that the owners of some real estate agencies point out that if we start with a mass building of apartments there will be a price disturbance on the real estate market, that's not really the case. The liberalisation of the market and free competition will have a positive impact on the reduction of the price of real estate, so other citizens of Serbia, unless they have settled their housing issue so far, will be able to do so in the next period at more favourable prices. So, our government does everything it does, it makes sense. It makes it all that Serbian citizens live better and Serbian citizens do live better today, whether they want to admit it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36874	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Cokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36875	President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow Members, in Article 3(1). The bill adds point 15, which reads: "The investment in the housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on budgetary stabilisation." By investing in apartment building for security services, we address the important problem of their housing issues and further stabilise the budget by means that come and pour into the budget from the process. It seems to me that we on this side are thinking about this revenue side of the budget, while colleagues sitting across the street, honoring exceptions, often think only about budget expenditure, how to increase something, how to increase the fees, and from where? Although some of them know how to charge the budget, they don't think about it. Dear Vice President Mihajlovic, I come from Smederjevska Palanka and I would ask you to hear me. The Smederjevska Palanka, as you know, is in a very bad economic state. One of our big problems is road infrastructure, when it comes to regional roads, when it comes to highway exits. Why am I saying that? Because this is an important issue, the roads are a matter of investing in one environment, and thus improving the conditions in that environment and improving the budget. So I'd like to ask you, Smederevska Palanka has been thinking for about two decades about a new highway exit, because the current corridor is 10 miles away. The loop at Lozovica Cesma, which has been planned for a long time, would ensure a faster exit of Smederjevska Palanka, the development of the municipality and the construction of infrastructure and investments along the road. If this is a major investment for the government, I ask that one of the regional directions be restored immediately, because we are located at the border of the city of Belgrade and the Palanka-Mladenovac road, which connects us with Belgrade, which is the first priority, is very bad. His rehabilitation would significantly improve conditions and attract investors, because, believe me, one of the essential items when talking to investors is road infrastructure. So I ask you to help in this part of the Smederevska Palanka municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36876	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36877	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the debate we have heard almost all the positive effects this law adopts, all those benefits that this law will produce, the reasons for the adoption, which are the objectives of the law and everything else that is relevant in this regard. I, although it is already said, would underline that this law will primarily have an effect on domestic companies, as well as on entrepreneurs, but also on state authorities and local self-government units, where these apartments will be built. But it will still have the most significant impact on the security forces, because after many years, they will be able to resolve their housing issue, on equal terms, the conditions that this law has prescribed, in one fair and just way. We have already pointed out that construction work represents a kind of economic momentum that will affect all other economic activities. All this leads to a total increase in economic activity, economic development, and should therefore be supported by this law. My amendment is completely complemented by the bill itself, and it is in the spirit of those objectives that this law has declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36878	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36879	I thank the chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with fellow Members, dear colleagues, I submit an amendment to Article 3. The bill, and I propose that point 15 be added in point 1 of the proposal, which reads: "The investment in the housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rule of law." In a pre-election campaign in 2014, President Aleksandar Vukic pledged that the state would change its attitude towards the south of Serbia. That he had fulfilled his promise may be the best proof that over 4,000 jobs in the company Simpo and Jumko in Vranj have been preserved by the responsible policy of our president and government in these two companies. Because the fact is we can't talk about the development of Vranj, the South, without these two companies. That the state thinks of the south is also evidence of the planned construction of 186 apartments for members of the security forces in Vranj. However, in addition to the above, I cannot help but mention the projects that were implemented in Vranj, thanks to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and this: on the section of the regional road Vranj-Vranjska spa near the village of Bresnica after 30 years, works are performed on the rescheduling site, as well as the August tape and support wall in the length of 164 metres and 5 meters. The value of the investment is about 32.5 million dinars. Then, reconstruction of the state road with sidewalks in Vranjska Banja in length of 1.7 km and 29 million dinars. Then, reconstruction of the state road Vranjska Banja-Kriva Faja in the length of 6.5 km, totalling 53 million dinars. Replace an asbestos-cement pipeline of raw water from the Przek dam to a water-processing facility of 4,030m, worth 2.5m euros, as well as a replacement of asbestos-cemental pipes in the town of Vranj, of 14,857m, total work value of 2.1m euros. Furthermore, the construction of a 12m-euro waste water treatment facility, the construction of a twom-euro fecal collector. Also, a reconstruction of railway stations in Vranj and Vranjska Banj was announced for this year. Before that, of course, as you know, a reconstruction of the railway on the route Vranjska Banja-Ristovac in the length of 17.7 km totals about $15 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36880	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36881	Thank you. First, let me try to get an answer from the Deputy Prime Minister to the question - how many apartments are being built this year, at the end of 2020, since you said the other day that it was 1,500 and something, the Home Secretary said it was 5,100? Yesterday, I wasn't able to attend a session attended by the defence minister, so I don't know what he said on the subject, but there's probably a magic number too. I'm listening to my colleagues speaking praises about the work of this government and that this is one miracle of the project, which, for 64 million euros, you said was the value of the project, to rebirth all living things. And the security of the state, the work of all services, the state administration, the reputation of Serbia, other endangered categories such as doctors, such as health care, such as education, such as culture. It will restore Serbia's pride. With those 64 million apartments that are supposed to be cheap for security forces, these planes that have been standing for half a year, this MiG 29. I'm surprised that, with so many phenomenal moves made in the last five or six years, we still have the lowest economic growth in the whole region? We have the least average salary in the whole region. We have the highest level of crime in the entire region. We have the smallest level of investment towards the size of the country across the region, and that means generally all over Europe. Just to remind you of the earlier brilliant moves that have been made that have solved all the problems, which individually, which grouply. For example, exports "Fiyata" to Russia. It's been done for a few years. How much is "Fiyata" exported to Russia? Zero. That's a hell of a solution. ‘Icarbus’ station ‘Mercedes’. So far, a sticker has been produced, which your party's personal president has glued to "Icarbus". It's that sticker that looks like a hip sign, but it's not, it's just for "Mercedes". So, how much was produced by Mercedes in Icarbus? Zero. A few years ago, FAP had a crown solution to get Sisu, that is, that the Finnish company Sisu will invest huge money, develop an economy, and what happened to that? How many trucks were produced by Sis in FAP? Zero. Besides, we had a South Stream, which was open... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36882	I have to warn you that we're working under a completely different law. (Zoran Zivkovic: What does this have to do with the exclusion from Smederjevska Palanka. Just now, my colleague was talking about this subject... You tell me what has to do with moments 29? (Zoran Zivkovic: As much as the exit from Smederjevska Palanka. ) It is a building building. Flight Mig 29 isn't. Will you continue on the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36883	How? The airports are construction facilities too, the factories are construction facilities, the South Stream is a kind of construction facility, which is directly the then president of the state, whether it was welded, whether it was watched as one pipe standing there was poor and unprotected somewhere along the Vojvodina, or whether it was a line of meters and by which Vukic opened at the New Sad station, that's Belgrade, it's a building facility of the same size of the investment or it's the Panchevo chips, where it's supposed to be made by the factory, to make chips in Panchevo, or it's the largest, one of the two largest...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36884	Comrade Zivkovic, please continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36885	... building facilities that have complete connections to security forces' apartments. What security forces must have modern equipment? Say, Pancheva chips or drive special vehicles out of Pritchett, FAP. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36886	Mr. Zivkovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36887	Why? What part didn't you understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36888	I got it all figured out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36889	And I didn't get it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36890	You obviously don't know what law it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36891	No, I know who the law is. Thank you for your warning. That's really very nice. I'll be punished for humanitarian purposes. What do I do? This is what is the issue of my struggle in this parliament, but two other large building buildings, which are apartments, are one apartment, called "Belgrade on Water", ended two years ago and a major development of the Serbian economy was done by not talking about the Danube-Vardar-Moorava channel. About these apartments, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister to answer me, how many apartments should it be built, is she right with 1,579, if I remember correctly, or is her colleague right, I think, Deputy Prime Minister, the Home Secretary, who said it was 5,100? When one of them is wrong, it means someone's not telling the truth. Whoever's not telling the truth, there's a Serbian proverb that defines some things. A promise of crazy joy is an old Serbian proverb that has received its affirmation, intense in the last few years, for example, five or six years. I would like all that I have heard from my fellow MPs, and that this law will advance Serbia's economy, the position of people in the security sector, to come true, but I'm afraid there's nothing out of it, like there's nothing I've said, of those big projects I've already said and for which I've been warned, so probably the proverb I said a few dozen seconds ago will be justified by this law. What's to be done? It should be done to make it all that people who are important to the state of Serbia, which is of course people from the security sector, but also from the health sector, from the education sector, from the culture sector, everything that is very difficult to identify in most of this room, that they too must have a way to get to the point of decent living in decent Serbia. First, it should be done that we have a decent constitution, that we have decent laws that will be respected, that we have decent and healthy MPs, ministers and presidents. That means establishing that health care ability on the laws that I'm proposing. Then people will work in a normal country, for normal wages from which they will normally be able to solve their living issue, health issue, cultural needs, and all that makes a man's life normal. Once again, I would like the Deputy Prime Minister to tell me the historical truth – are 1,579 apartments or 5,100 apartments scheduled by the end of 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36892	The word of the messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36893	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. I want to tell you, as someone who comes from Priboj, on the subject of FAP and untrue, not holding the topic, to suggest that if Mr. Zoran Zivkovic ever decides to continue his education, he does so at a secondary engineering and electrical engineering school in Priboj, that in the framework of dual education he visits FAP, to see how close FAP is to the dedicated industry, how much we have no problem with the failure of privatization of FAP. If Mr. Zivkovic decides to continue his education at the secondary engineering and electrical engineering school, he can see that 407 million dinars have been allocated for the reconstruction of the school, and no one knows better than Pribojci whether the FAP has been shut down or not, and the Pribojci said in previous elections 62% for Aleksandr Vukic. Just let me have one more thing. He was supposed to stick to the subject. So, the Army, security forces. There was a period when a soldier expected this state to naturally expect one government to solve the problem, his housing problem. So someone as a citizen expects that authority to solve it. President, this government says - what do we need an army for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36894	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure in any part of it, colleague Janjusevic. A colleague, Zivkovic, even got a warning. The word is by the MP of the people, Serbian Filipovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36895	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising an injury. 106th and 109th. Rules of Procedure. I can fully support what the previous speaker said was necessary medical examinations for MPs, for officials to be in those places. It's a real example of a man who needs a doctor's examination, because he would never go through it. The man who said to himself that he was unable to attend a session of the National Assembly yesterday, to listen and to participate in a discussion of such important topics, has now come capable. He's probably sobered up during the night since the heavy drinking yesterday... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36896	A colleague of Filipovic's... (Srbislav Filipovic: You must know one thing. That previous government has left this country empty... Give me back my word. Is there anyone else who wants to do the Rules of Procedure? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36897	I, under Article 103 paragraph 8. Mr. Arsic, previous colleagues, who spoke to the Rules of Procedure, should take time from the parliamentary group because they did not talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Certainly, this intervention would not have come from the SRS parliamentary group if it hadn't happened the day before yesterday, because otherwise, we know, we think that MPs can speak on all subjects and that they shouldn't be limited to time or subject, and in that sense I don't enter exactly what this colleague who caused these polemics said or what these colleagues said. But, you know, two days ago, it happened that an MP from the government asked the SRS MP to take time away from the MP's group because, according to his assessment, it wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it was about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but it was a little wider than usual and what's normal. And, a colleague then threatened that if the SRS did not take that time away from the parliamentary group that MPs would then, at any moment, report to the Rules of Procedure and thus block parliament's work. You didn't chair then, he's a fellow Milicevic, and that's why I intervene. So either to accept what it is normal for the Rules of Procedure to be said, to say a little bit and beyond what this supremacy provision of the Rules of Procedure means, to actually be some kind of valve where we can use it for a while, but we just insist that it applies to all the MPs in this room, and in that sense we would support it. Otherwise, take time away from your previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36898	I feel that I have not violated any part of the Rules of Procedure and that time should not be taken, because in time I interrupted fellow Members to advertise the Rules of Procedure and not to enter the replica. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Okay, thanks. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36899	I thank the chairman. I'm advocating Article 106(3) and Article 108. Yes, Mr. Zivkovic, I refer to Article 106 and Article 108, and what I mentioned does not give you the right to reply, because there is no replica in the Rules of Procedure. What I'm saying is that in a very ugly way here, it's been said that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not doing its job well and what it will give birth to. The work of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia will give birth to the city of Nis for which Zoran Zivkovic, of course, does not care, and what genius moves the government of the Republic of Serbia is, are genius, as apartments for security forces will be built in Nis. Zoran Zivkovic's genius moves were to invite people not to pay for electricity in Nis, and now there are perpetrators at the door of those people, not at the door of Zoran Zivkovic, who lives well here in Belgrade. I ask you to proceed with the application of article 108 and to give notices to those MPs who, in their speeches, violate the Rules of Procedure, in that they do not speak of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36900	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Right to the replica of the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36901	Thank you very much. The mention of the party president, of course, as an opportunity for a certain gentleman here to make the salami sound a variety of strange accusations, so she spelled out the story of "Belgrade on Water" by those who are only able to rejoice if there is a fire on the project. There, it is the peak of their achievement when it comes to any meaningful consideration of the project "Belgrade on Water", and they cannot hide the heavy amek because of the fact that the project is real. As bad as they're trying to talk about him, they see the project today with their own eyes. So, and those first towers that you said would never come down and the other two that are behind them and those objects that are closer to the highway and "Gazals", all of this is ladies and gentlemen reality today. If someone's sad about it, they only have a problem with themselves. They also dropped charges on the subject of "Icarbus" for which we have no intention of apologizing for what it is doing, which still manages to build a bus. We have no intention of apologising that they failed to deliberately shut down those who had it for a purpose from only those known, of course, above all business reasons. Neither did the FAP itself, which we also have no intention of apologizing for, which still works, which makes some truck because it's the state's interest, because it provides him with that job and because even the workers are invited to engage, and sometimes they could only hope for a black faceless fate while they depend on those who today are trying to make some heavy accusations in this room. Why are they doing this? Is it because they were exposed as people who saw their political future and some prosperous career with enough failed Sasa Jankovic, who was the only one who lacked them to fail to the board? I don't want to get into it, but ladies and gentlemen, if we're going to call on folk proverbs and folk wisdom, which I highly appreciate, in the spirit of this rattle we've been listening to from a moment ago, one of my thoughts falls to me – the more empty the jar, the stronger it sounds. I don't know why I thought of that. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36902	Wait for my colleague, Zivkovic. Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36903	Thank you very much. I really expected from an MP who was once a minister of police and a Prime Minister, much more, but good. Maybe that's how his party went, just like he was Prime Minister. So, as far as the number of apartments is concerned, I don't think you're doing very well with math. MP, here's the deal. So 1,578 apartments are part of the 5,203 apartments that are starting to build already somewhere, we expect, in mid-August. So, the real building that we're going to start is probably going to be Nis or Vranje, the difference may be in seven days. So these are apartments that are represented, located in a group of 5,203 apartments and have to be completed by 2020, with some buildings already due to be completed in 2019. At the same time as the construction starts, so concesively across the cities, so we talk to other cities and municipalities where we could start building apartments. So, the total number by 2020, to repeat again, is 5,203 apartments. None of the ministers said otherwise, since I saw them all say the same thing. Now, what you're thinking and using this situation is whether 1,500 or 5,000 -- well, this one's not telling the truth, that's not the point. The point is, we're going to solve the issues of people who work in the military, the police and the BIA. The point is, what no one has done in 30, 40 years is done by this government. The bottom line is that, in addition to solving problematic housing issues and housing problems, we will also enable the growth of construction and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, enabling cities and municipalities to make revenues. So, from tax, simply, we're going to raise additional construction. When you mention how we have the lowest social gross product, so that we have the most crime and things like that, you probably remember your time and you still live in that time, because then we had a negative social growth of the social gross product minus 3.1%, and today it's in the first quarter of 3.5%. Therefore, this country has had a steady growth for several years, with socially gross products, a decline in unemployment, industrial production growth. Therefore, this country does not have one year of growth, so the second year of decline, but it has continued all the time, it has a trend, it records the trend of growth which is very good for our economic development. Because that's why we're in a situation where we can do projects like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36904	You're bringing the end. You only have two minutes of co-workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36905	Also, somewhere you seem to have told me, a proverb – a promise of crazy joy. Here, let me tell you, we promise to finish this project, as we've completed many before this project, doesn't know if you're looking forward to it then.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36906	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36907	Thank the Deputy Prime Minister for trying to explain, but I'm afraid it will be that her colleague was right, without her telling the truth about what we can determine and by looking at the stenogram from the session before someone over when Mrs. Mihajlovic attended. It says there that she said that by 2010, 1,500 and some apartments would be completed and what to do with it now, it's an obvious fact that she shouldn't be surprised. Also, I am not surprised by your ignorance of many areas, because I know when you worked in the federal government at the time of my government, under quotes, then you worked with Mr. Labus and there you were fired because you didn't know you were doing your job, and you were able to find out, Google and someone tells you that economic growth, GDP growth 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 was on average twice as much as in the last six years. That's the truth that every writer can know, doesn't have to be a doctor and a professor at Mica's, what's the name of that Mic over there in New Belgrade, I don't know what his name is. So it's on that side. As for a colleague from Nis, who told a hundred times a lie, let me tell you, here, I'm willing to bet everything I have with a lady, in all her assets, has anyone ever had a problem with what I allegedly asked for tossing electricity bills? Those accounts were eaten by inflation in 1999, just so you know, if someone got it wrong, and I called not to pay TV subscription for the TV "Bastille" then and that's what the Nišljes listened to, and the first democratic government in 2001, at the first session of the first session of the agenda was – the elimination of the RTS tax from the count account. So, a lady who is known to the public and sports and political should be better informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36908	The right to replica has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36909	Just for the sake of truth, once again, 1,578 apartments are built that represent part of 5,203 will be completed by 2020. As far as the federal government is concerned, I've never worked there, let me tell you right now, I entered the government in 2004, came out in 2005 when the Deputy Prime Minister resigned because I'm not walking like you do. When you say there's been growth since 2001, yes, you're right, there's been growth, because then you've been doing privatisations, the worst possible robbery privatisations. For billions of euros, our companies were sold and that money, for God's sake, did not end up with workers, but ended up right in the parties you were in. Of course, there is a certain growth in that moment, and then an incredible fall. As far as these accounts are concerned, I apologize, somehow I feel also called because I was Minister of Energy and I claim that no single account, as you say, ate inflation, has unfortunately eaten inflation, these people have interest on interest which is precisely from the time you asked them not to pay for electricity, so don't say things that aren't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36910	The People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36911	Dear Minister, you're some kind of economist, you should know that privatisation income isn't accounted for as a GDP growth, they know that at an economists' party, under one. Two, the first privatisation problems, the first criminal privatisations were at a time when you worked in the government, since 2004, and beyond, are historical data and there is no doubt there. The absolute lie is under a) that I have called for non-payment and I call for all services, anyone, domestic, foreign, Russian, Chinese, Belarusian, Afghan, whoever you like, to give one proof that I told you that, I said what I said earlier. Unfortunately, the inflation that occurred during the 1999 bombing, which is unfortunately normal when you have aggression on your country, destroyed all the electricity bills, whether someone called or not from 1994, 1995 to 1999. New electricity debts, not only in Nis, but in all Serbia, appeared by the lying power of Slobodan Milosevic in 1999, saying he would not charge electricity during the bombing, and then all citizens received huge bills for electricity at the end of 1999, and then the problems started. Therefore, you can repeat these lies as much as you want, they will not make you any more beautiful or smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36912	The right to replica has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36913	Okay. To remind you of a privatization from your time, just one of the hundreds of privatisations you witnessed and you know very well what you were doing. Let's say "Sartid", to remind you of that privatisation in 2003 and to remind you of what you did and how many debts Sartid had, 1.7 billion dollars that you transferred to the state, removed from one court to another, papers, etc., and then, of course, sold it that way. Because of how you did it, it could have happened that the entire region, the whole region, had practically run out of people, that we weren't, and that's the living truth, that today Jellyzara wasn't sold to another Chinese company, thanks to the work of this government and the stability that this government has. What you did with Sartide in 2003 is a model of how you did all the privatisations. So, if I were you, I wouldn't talk about it. If I were you, I'd still come back to talk about this law, I understand your regrets, that you didn't do anything in Nis, where you were even mayor, because that bypass and that railroad was done by this government, 260m euros, this government has signed a contract and is doing, among other things, modernization, electrification and railway crossing. That we're not talking about apartments that are going to start working here. Not to mention all that, the factories that were brought to Nis. Well, all that's left behind is a wasteland. You're now explaining to us how brilliant you are, how you've done something and how terrible we are. The data and all the nakedness of the eye, so they say you're completely wrong. I'm not going to call you again to replicate, because I think it's sad that you're wasting all your time with your story because you've spent our years with your hard work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36914	The People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36915	It's a great example you took, it's a "Sartid" and it says how sincere you are and how much you know about this topic. First, 98.4% of Serbian citizens know that Sartid was not a privatisation, but a bankruptcy sale. The bankruptcy was introduced in the 1990s, and there's no doubt about it, and now this hardware works more on enthusiasm, less on market terms, but I don't want to deal with the current situation. So, first of all, it wasn't privatisation. Secondly, your boss, Miroljub Labus, was headed by the state of Sartida, because the state also made these huge debts in Sartid in the 1990s, and it's clear as day. Therefore, it is obvious evidence that you have no idea what you're saying. Ask all the people in Smederev, of your members, I don't remember which party you're in today, but I guess you know what the Pericle era of "Sartida" was. Of course, at the time there was "Ju-Es style," and you know it very well. And now that you're trying to defend yourself nervously against the Americans because your current party colleagues are accusing you of being their own man, that's none of my business, I like them all, and I like the russians and the americans, whoever, I love everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36916	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36917	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought I was out of it. I'm advertising Article 107. Here, you see the behavior. Look at the behavior. I didn't think I was getting involved in this. Someone must have opened the pub early. I don't know where they serve that early alcoholic drink. Since "Sartid" was mentioned as someone who lived and worked at the time, as someone who voted out of the pietate for what came out, I have to say that the privatisation of "Sartida", "Philip Morisa", DIN and DIV was done during "Sablje" or started only after "Sablje", but previously customers were selected. So he was in America, he agreed that "Sartid", under very suspicious circumstances, and DIN and DIV, which were worth over a billion euros, would be sold for 500 million, and that "Sartid" would be sold to Americans despite the debt he made to take over the state from a billion to 400 million marks. At a time when human rights were suspended, at a time when large arrests were made, at a time when the state was one huge prison, he agreed in America to arrest on the one hand, and on the other hand to sell property. I was hoping, given that this is a time of intense rain, that a colleague will be engaged in plant protection, that as a colleague, a villager from Vrachar will deal with his vineyard, under the pretenses, and that he will protect himself from the ashes, from the flamer, etc. Apparently, he doesn't even know how to do it, he doesn't know any preparations, he didn't spray the vineyard, but here he blew it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36918	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36919	It'll be short, Mr. Chairman, because there's no point in discussing a man who's escaped from the O.R. again. I mean Mr. Zivkovic, of course. If he comes back, we'll also talk about how Sartid functioned and how it was the movement of the country's debt and how great it was at that Perikl era, did he say, the golden age, the Perikl Age? Only if someone meets him in the meantime, let them tell him that Vesna Rakic Vodalić believes that what he said is not true, and I will explain to him in what sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36920	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague named Vlahović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36921	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like first to give my thanks to the restoring ministry, the respected minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for this good bill, because this is a huge project and we all know what it will bring, major economic growth, economic development, GDP growth, greater participation of small and medium-sized enterprises and their better work, growth of the share of construction in GDP, higher tax collection and reduction of unemployment. The Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Minister, I simply wonder if it is possible that such a good law, such a huge project, MPs of the opposition are constantly challenging and criticising. Do they at some point wonder if there is at least one member in their family, one employee working in the security service, who is a tenant? Are they aware of how much joy we have brought into the homes of people living and working in security services living in the Kingdom, Nis, Vranja, Novi Sad, Belgrade? Do they even know how many of these apartments they built, but not for themselves, but for the citizens of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36922	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that my colleague, a peasant, came out of parliament because I wanted to explain to him, he was the Prime Minister, and it was my sin to vote for him from my pitet to Zoran Djindjic. I confess that sin. Over time, I see that my sin was extremely great. I wanted to explain to him that privatisation in Serbia has affected GDP growth in their time, but he's out, so if he's looking somewhere, I'll try to explain it to him. Privatisation earned money that they pushed into consumption, and GDP is accounted for by the goods and services produced. By pushing money into consumption, trade and services increased, and thus spent factories through consumption, and the total revenue from privatisation was 6.7 billion, from donor support 4.5 and from forgiveness of debt of 4 billion. This was partly pushed into consumption and the growth they showed at the time was growth based on trade in foreign goods and services that were mainly paid by foreign goods rather than by production. This government does it differently. I suggest, among other things, that agricultural production be one that will be bigger. With a favourable climate, and my colleague has left, so he can't know that, with a favourable climate and fertile land, we can probably produce a good agricultural food product. The Netherlands and Denmark should be examples for us. In this way, through the production of food products, that money should come to all of us, including the security authorities, police officers, soldiers, and to the public sector, health workers, teachers, teachers, professors. In this way, everyone will get a chance to have a decent and honest job, a decent profit and a decent home, and that is why I propose that the agricultural and food industries be the bearers of this country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36924	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36925	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, so there is no one else to be referred here to any reasonable criticism, and you have no sense nor reason, nor the willingness to participate in the previous days in any reasoned discussion, because indeed, when a man sits down and thinks, I do not see how he can criticise what the SNS is doing today and what you are doing as ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. What's wrong with having 1,578 apartments for members of the security service by 2019? What's wrong with having 5,203 apartments by 2020 for members of the security service? It's bad, when the opposition looks at it, because they're not in a position to spend those apartments on vacations, their expensive cars, their apartments and everything else. Of course, it is bad, but it is good for the citizens of Serbia, it is good that others will have the opportunity to come to the apartment under similar conditions, to resolve their housing issue, and that is exactly what we as SNS advocate for the benefit of Serbia's citizens in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36926	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Joviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36927	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, last week, we made a decision to form a commission to investigate all the health impacts of the bombings we survived in 1999. We must not forget that just the members of our security services of those months and those weeks of bombing were where the worst were, under impossible conditions, protecting both our security and our country as a whole. What will be the consequences of their health, we will see when the commission we have formed, or which we will definitely vote on these days to give the first results of our research. Personally, as a doctor, I've met a good part of the Security Service and I've treated these people and I have to admit that with their lives and their health they've paid a high price for what they've done for our country and our people. That's why I want to talk about this human, human dimension of passing this law. I think he's just, first of all, because that's how we're going to repay all those people who are ready, and at least in part, who are willing to invest their lives and their health in something called the security of the Serbian state. That is why full support and a bill of law and full support for all that makes the Serbian government to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36928	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36929	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen, how important it is to strengthen security forces in every respect, in order to strengthen the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, the best words of the unhappiness picture painted in the problems of Serbs in the region. I especially think about Serbs in the southern province, Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo's name is run by road robbers and war criminals, and that's clear to their sponsors. Banished people, robbed property, destroyed cemeteries, churches and monasteries, cacams in which the remaining Serbian hostages testify to the effect, NATO aggression and Kosovo state declaration. In Kosovo, the hunt for Serbs ceases to testify and the iguman monastery of High Decani, father of Savo Janjic. Operation leaders Wesley Clark, Madeleine Albright, and by the time Richard Holbrook owned a huge property on KIM, which was soon the state property of the Republic of Serbia. According to data that is widely available to the public, some 3,000 girls pass each year to cheer up the dark army. Basic industries are drug trafficking, weapons, flower smuggling, bribery and corruption. Only a fully recovered and strengthened Serbian state with well-equipped and stimulated security forces can give hope to Serbs staring at its queen. Because of all this amendment that talks about special consideration of Serbs in the region, it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36930	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36931	Mr. Arsic, article 27 obliges you to follow what the MPs say. A colleague earlier said that how much this law would affect Serbs in the region and he said first of all, I mean Serbs on KIM. Serbs in KIM are not Serbs in the region but Serbs in Serbia, because I suppose that my colleague made a lapus, if it wasn't very bad then what he said is very bad, but if he made a lapus you were following what your colleague did, you would tell him that his colleague Krlic, Serbs in KIM are not Serbs in the region, but Serbs in Serbia, please keep your accounts in the future, and I would like for you to allow him in one sentence to say whether he really meant what he said or was just a lapus. And I'm not asking you to plead in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36932	You don't have the right line, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you have to report by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36933	I thank the MPs for drawing my attention to the lapus, but I think it would be better if she had listened to me a little more carefully, not to respect me for what I think of the state of the Serbs, what I think is where the Republic of Kosovo belongs and whose state space it is. I think I proved it in everything I've done long ago, but I'm just going to repeat what I said. So, the unhappi reality depicts a major problem for Serbs in the region, and I especially need to turn on Serbs in the southern province of KIM. So one is Serbs in the region who have similar problems, and I especially pointed out the southern province, and that's how it was titled. If I call something the southern province, then I probably think it belongs to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36934	Thank you. No more co-workers. [[The Faith of Radeta: Can the replica be found in one sentence?]] Well, no, but it's a misunderstanding and we're not gonna... (The Faith of Radeta: nothing was negative. Well, all right, my colleague's right. Do you have to answer now? National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36935	Thank you. The law seeks to address the largest number of unresolved housing needs of officials in official security, who have failed to resolve previous authorities for decades, before the SNS authorities and its president, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. She didn't want to, she didn't want to, she didn't want to, she didn't know she was solving them. The proposal for this law finally clearly defines and systematically addresses the issues of housing needs of this target group directly in charge of implementing measures to achieve the objectives of national security policy, but also provides additional economic recovery especially when it comes to the construction industry. The construction industry is the driver of all business activities, so investments are placed through the construction of the most profitable investments. Realising a project to build apartments for members of security forces, the government of the Republic of Serbia clearly tells us that this project wants to achieve not only the goal of meeting the needs of apartments, but also create all assumptions for faster, social, economic, overall development of Serbia, but clearly says it is opening an investment cycle in the area of housing. Investments in housing especially those coming from real sources will employ our economy, will employ this project of domestic construction, construction operations. It will provide the flow of the Republic of Serbia's budgets and the budgets of local self-government, thus contributing to the overall development of our country. Dear Vice President, the border municipalities are of special strategic importance to our country's security, and I come from one of those. I'm using the opportunity to invite you to choose the location for building apartments for the members of the Security Service to find Novi Knezevic, who is ready to provide and build a building plot, and I'm sure there are plenty of interested and willing to, under such extremely favourable conditions, provide a roof over his head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36936	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36937	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Professor Zorana, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia. I have submitted an amendment to the investment of housing, which will contribute to the development of the entire economy in Serbia, and thus to the development of undeveloped areas. With an investment in housing and a roof over his head for all those people, for all the cops, for the soldiers, for the service, and for all the others who worked in the Security Service. It's a really big deal, but these people serve the people. Investment like this in the apartment has the opportunity to provide jobs for people living in small municipalities, small communities. But there's a great opportunity to provide food for these people, because these people have to eat when they work. And then there's the cheese, the shrewd whites, the lambs and other products from the nicks, and the surrounding parts. One more thing, Deputy Prime Minister, I see in you a great opportunity to develop and your ministry is one of the best ministries that works most here in our Serbia, and I am sure that with your further engagement we will have the opportunity to complete what has been started. Here we have in Svrlig a path which is a regular character from the master's path through Svrlig to the Old Mountain. The part of the road is now continuing, and this is a great opportunity for the development of the southeast of Serbia, for the development of tourism. One more thing that is very important to me as the man who comes from Svrljig I want and I would like to organise together a meeting with our local governments Svrljig, Književec, Zaječar, Negotin, Majdanpek, Bor, to work together and contribute to the work of the railway that goes from Nis through Svrljeg, Knjižvac, Zaječar, right towards Negotina, Prahovo and left to Bor and Majdanpek. This railway is regional character, to be done just as we do the way towards the Old Mountain, because that is the only way we will have the opportunity to save and improve the development of Serbia's east, and the law gives us the opportunity. I also gave the amendment to Article 9 which I would like to contribute to and help you to keep that track running and not to get that railroad shut down, that is, working together to make it better and to reconstruct that track. Thank you again, I really do trust you, in our government, and especially in President Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36938	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36939	Dear Millie, as we said, as I replied when we had a debate in principle a few days ago, the reconstruction of the railroad, the next year we begin the reconstruction of the railroad, and we can expect in the first quarter somewhere next year to start doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36940	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36941	The Honored Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, has been defined in the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project, for members of the security forces, to which I submitted the amendment, adding point 15, which reads – investment in the housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to undeveloped municipalities. In preparing for the interpretation of the amendments to Article 3, I was absolutely based on the notion of investment in housing, because the further explanation of the terms and expressions of these members is unnecessary, since they are mostly known and well explained in Article 3. At first, I would like to stress that it is necessary to pass a special law concerning the projects listed above, because with the realization of the same, it starts at different locations, in several different cities, which requires systematic resolution of all issues and overcoming all the problems that can arise in the realisation itself. Addressing this problem is the public interest of the Republic of Serbia in the importance of strengthening the national security system. The mass housing project, which the state absolutely supports, is important not only because of the resolution of the housing issue of several thousand people, but also for the development of the construction industry and operations, and this is a great opportunity for the development of certain cities and undeveloped areas where work will be carried out. Investment in housing, i.e. investment in such large projects, is repeated and is further driven by our economy. Our President, Aleksandar Vukic, has repeatedly insisted that people who work responsible jobs for this country must have additional security, and this is certainly also the possibility of reaching quality apartments in the most favourable way, as I have repeatedly pointed out, and that this would be realised is necessary, except for the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for local self-government, business banks and construction companies to be involved in this job. This way of investing in housing will be enjoyed by many, and especially by builders who are happy to accept this project, because it provides a large number of jobs in our construction companies, but also in areas such as building materials, ceramics, furniture and other works. Finally, in addition to the individual terms defined in Article 3 of points 1 to 14 of I believe that investment in housing should be further defined to provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities, so I proposed to further mention the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36942	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36943	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which I am adding point 15. How do investments in housing ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and reduce social differences? First of all, it should be said that 20,000 apartments should be made in the Republic of Serbia in 10 years, amounting to two million squares, and the value of this job, this beautiful project, which none of us have ever done before, is 250m euros. To clarify for the sake of our viewers, there was no controversy between the minister and the minister. Both said that in three years, 5,203 apartments will be built, finally, and 1,578 apartments in six cities will be built. It's a good thing we're talking about six cities. The value of this job, or this first phase, will be about 65m euros, but it's good we're talking about six cities, because it's decentralisation. So not only in those six cities, but from the poll and from people living in different parts of the Republic of Serbia will be built where there is, the military, the police, where there are a large number of security forces. In this way, by activating the construction industry, machinery, electricity, as well as the work that goes along with this construction, of course it strengthens the Republic of Serbia, to ensure development, and by obtaining apartment, work, social differences are reduced. This is the basis of SNS policy and its coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36944	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Stojljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36945	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 with the aim of stressing the importance of investing in housing, which, of course, should reduce poverty in the Republic of Serbia. Since the ages of heritage and property have definitely been the border that maintained the status of poverty, and so it is today, and should be noted that at this point we have about 20,000 police members, about 14,000 military members and about 1,500 non-occupied BIA members, and therefore this importance is extremely large. Regardless of what this is about, the employment category of the population, means, when the family has no housing problem resolved, it's definitely making big financial problems and expenditures, because giving money to live as a tenant is irrevocably leaving without any real investment. So now the state will give them a chance to invest that money wisely in permanent dwellings. So the state wants to raise the standard of living for members of the security force, who are doing extremely difficult and responsible work for all of us. So, as we heard, building about two million squares will take about 250m euros, but total investment will even reach about a billion euros, and it will definitely raise our construction industry and create a large number of new jobs in the longer term, so that a large number of black-based workers will have the opportunity to get permanent employment and, of course, to solve the employment and jobs issue. Therefore, a minimum of 35 industrial branches will be included in the construction of such apartments and any money invested in the housing, the state will, above all, return to the citizens multiple and start up the economy, which is certainly aimed at reducing poverty in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36946	Thank you, colleague Stojljkovic. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36947	Thank you. Dear President, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law, because I wanted to further define this law, and as a doctor, I would like to refer a little bit to the development of the health system. What is commendable is that our government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President of the Republic of Serbia are taking care of all citizens and all the structures of society, and so this good bill also wants to solve what those who have not today have not solved at the time they had the chance to do so. They've always had a bit of an ex-post mind, so in the last few days, we've had to hear from them everything and everything, and while they were able to do it, they did it, but only for the benefit of their families. What I want to praise is that it is you and Mr. Bratislava Gasic who gave the defence minister in Krusevec more than 30 apartments, and those who are not here today who suspended the construction of these apartments in 2002, but we do not want to look up to them, of course, and that is why we have the huge support of our citizens and they show it from the election elections. In voting day, my colleague and I will support this good bill. You guys keep going at this pace and go on to new victories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36948	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36949	Thank you. By adopting and applying the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, we create much better conditions for the lives and work of employees, but, of course, also pensioners from this area, who also have the right to compete for these apartments. In the first phase, the construction of 1578 apartments was planned in 2020. As important as this first project for building apartments for security forces is, it is just as important that this model can be applied to other categories, first of all I mean education and health care, and I have already talked about that and I have suggested that when discussing my first amendment at the beginning of this debate. This is a good way to motivate healthcare professionals to stay in Serbia and I am also looking forward to the announcement by the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure that this project will expand to other services as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36950	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36951	Thank you for your comment. I've got a little supplement. So by 2020, 5,203 apartments will be built. It starts immediately at 1.578. It may be more built by 2020, but our plan is for it to certainly be 5,203 apartments in these six cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36952	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36953	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, this bill sends a clear message that Serbia is a country in which it is working and building to improve the quality of life of members of security forces, as well as all other citizens, as well as to reduce poverty. The construction industry has a strong impact on GDP growth because it employs a large number of people, while increasing employment directly affects poverty reduction. Also, increasing employment also increases income in local self-government budgets and income in the country in general and thus vulnerable categories have benefits and benefits, as the state can adequately respond to its social protection function. The process of destroying the state and security forces is forever behind us, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia have said since 2012, that the government in Serbia wants to take over SNS headed by Alexander Vukic. From year to year, this support in SNS and Alexander Vukic is increasing. Why? Because we treat citizens in a responsible way. Because we're telling citizens the truth. Because we are improving operational, functional, residential, material capacities, concrete security forces, and thus all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because we don't melt tanks. Five hundred tanks and hoodies and thousands of firearms melted a "yellow company" by 2012, whose one of the representatives was today an MP in the National Assembly, who, of course, brought unfounded criticism to the expense of this law. They didn't just melt tanks, hoodies and thousands of firearms. They alienated 874 boats and thus directly threatened the lives and health of citizens, those affected by elemental disasters. They also sold MI-8 planes, which is a transport helicopter and which also has a significant function in evacuating and saving the population in elemental disasters. In contrast, thanks to the great trust and reputation of Alexander Vukic, a donation from the Russian Federation came from six MiG 29 fighter planes and from Belarus four MiG 29. At the same time, we received a proposal from the Russian Federation for free pilot training. The yellow company has anti-constitutionalally endangered pensioners, members of security forces, but the government of Aleksandr Vukic, five billion dinars, has returned pensioners to whom the "yellow company" anti-constitutionally took pensions. Even the sky at the time of the "yellow company" over Serbia was not free for birds to fly. Only in November 2015, when Alexander Vukic was Prime Minister, air space relaxation was achieved over the Republic of Serbia and now the sky is free for both planes and birds. Security forces, whose commander-in-chief is Alexander Vukic, should not worry about the quality of their lives and citizens for their peace, security and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36954	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36955	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, has witnessed that raising the purchasing power of the population, after a certain time improves the competitiveness of the banking sector in terms of interest cuts and the expansion of financial packages. As for the housing sector, however, it will continue to be conditioned by the current economic powers of the state. Until recently, we had unsettled finances, huge debts and bitter people with no hope. Today we have advanced 50 places on the Duing Business List, we are returning our debt to the people, we have no deficit in the budget and we are building two million squares for which the state will give about 200 to 250m euros. What is very important is the fact that domestic companies will participate in the housing project, which will help the domestic industry and boost the labour market. Due to the almost complete privatisation of dwellings and the abolition of resources, some new, public housing fund has been funded to meet social housing needs, the public sector has so far been without the means to even think about such projects and so the state has left these projects to the private sector and has now, after a long time, shown again that thanks to the government that is making huge efforts, carefully planning and saving, the state can be the main investor of major projects that are of public interest to ensure economic growth, increase citizens' standards, financial stability and, of course, to strengthen the security sector, which is guaranteed peace and political stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36956	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36957	Dear President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, fellow MPs, when we talk about building apartments for members of the security forces, we need to look at the fact, why these apartments are being built now and what is it like? So, the Ministry of Defence worked from 2000 to 2012, when it had not already provided apartments for its members? About what was done and how it was done, I will tell us the situation and describe it with the "Mega Link" affair, which has led the military police to submit to the $170m of dinar damage at the time, which was more than $2m in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Serbia, in the procurement of telecommunications equipment, in co-operation with the competent public prosecutor's office, against nine members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, and these people have participated in the procurement process and there is a reasonable suspicion that they have committed a criminal act of abuse of official office. Otherwise, on June 12th 2015, criminal charges were filed against Ilija Pilipovic, the godfather and assistant defence minister Dragan Sutanovac, also because of the existence of a reasonable suspicion that he committed the crime of abuse of his official position. The contracts for the procurement of telecommunications equipment with the companies "Jugochemia" a.d. representative of radio relay equipment "Tadiran" worth $37m with the company "Jugoimport" SDPR which represented "Tales" from France worth $24m and with the company "Mega Link" from Belgrade, which represented the Norwegian Neru, worth $9m, totaling over $70m, former Minister Dragan Sutanovac, signed after an unlawful tender procedure, and the epilogue of the work being done was the following. A system that was supposed to be reliable, resistant to distractions, compatible with existing systems of connections and, of course, fully integrated unique telecommunications system, today looks like this. "Tales" commutation system works untrustedly, "Tadiran" equipment is not used, is mainly in warehouses and basements, only "Nera" and IRITEL are doing the right thing. What is saddened by all of this is the fact that for 70 million dollars, as far as can be said, and how much damage has been suffered by the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, the state was able to make over 1,500 apartments and solve housing problems for more than 1,500 families of its members over a decade ago, that someone was taking care of the military and its members at the time, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia does today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36958	Thanks, buddy. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here's my colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36959	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, Madam Ministers with Associates, I have also submitted the amendment to Article 3, which is absolutely in line with the amendments I have proposed to Articles 1 and 2, believing that the issue of social equality that is incorporated into this law should be given one particular line. Not only does it need to get a special line, the reasons for this should not be further explained, but it can also be done in practical application of this law to facilitate the application of Articles 10, 11 and 12. The bill, which you have done if the texts remain adopted in an unaltered form. In fact, Article 10 specifies the way, i.e. the level of the construction price, Article 11 regulates the issue of individual location selection and Article 12 defines the obligations of local self-government, where locations are defined. Indeed, social equality can also be achieved in the following way through a reduction in the cost of construction. I think that it should be considered as a matter of priority as possible all those locations where there are barracks of Serbia's military that are not being used today and for which the Serbian Army estimates that it will not be used in the future. This, instead of expropriating land from private owners or other locations, would be achieved by expropriating land from the Serbian Army, which is to make serious money available to the Serbian Army easier to raise standards for all members of the Serbian Army. On the other hand, many unused spaces that exist, such as in Obrenovac and in many other cities, in Obrenovac you would have a barracks that is located in a fantastic place, unless it is planned to rebuild the barracks, re-function, along the Sava River several hectares of land that is fully supplied with infrastructure for construction, can be an ideal position for building apartments for members of the security service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36960	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Krsto Janjušević, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36961	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, respected colleagues, investments in housing are certainly in the function of economic development, especially because of the provisions of this law which oblige domestic operators to participate to a significant extent. What's very important is that last year almost all the capital investments are being used, and we have no doubt that this year in the 79.95 billion budget will be the same case. On this occasion, I would also like to thank you, Vice President, for the quick reaction of your ministry two years ago and for the total reconstruction of a 2.6km access to a free industrial area of Priboj, which may have been crucial that we have seven companies there today and 250 people to begin with, but that number is growing. Every member of the security force contributes to economic development, but we went through a difficult period, during the period when a soldier was taken from the gun and thrown into the oven, when a machine was taken from the worker and the factory sold, when dignity was taken from the people and the country was taken away from the future. We must return it all, both because of the children of Serbia, and also because of those who have created value for this country and died for this country, with the belief that no one will ever appear who will disfigure their blood and sweat and sell cheaply, as has unfortunately happened in one period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36962	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Ivan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36963	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to point out the importance of any investment for our society. But, of course, investments based on real needs, which are implemented according to priorities and through which many areas of economy can be included and which will lead to positive results in these areas. I am particularly pleased when we talk about the draft law on the agenda, from which I can see absolutely detailed and responsible work. The President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia are responsible for this kind of solution at all. They have led to an environment where housing issues for security forces can be considered. All participants in this system, giving their maximum in solving such an important issue, which has not even been considered in the near past, will lead to good results and, most importantly, will remain continuous in this area as well. As the SNS programme is based on work, okay, discipline, industriousness in solving problems from every segment of our citizens' lives, evenly in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, we come up with what is shown by such a proposal, to think about modernising, improving and putting the Republic of Serbia in increasingly better positions on world-renowned lists. That's how you look at the idea through this law. The state knows that it is responsible to provide the best conditions for life for security forces, for the people who protect our country and our citizens. It is absolutely certain that housing certainly provides for the development of our country and that every planning and building of housing units leads to the creation of new infrastructure, to new traffic networks, to new businesses in our country and to multiple issues for our country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36964	Thank you, colleague. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36965	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, I propose this amendment to be in Article 3(1). The bill adds item 15 -- investment in housing provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. This amendment, I consider further defining the concepts of this bill. Based on a statement by the Chiefs of Military Health, Colonel Ugljesa Jovicic, our Defence Minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin, ordered the Department of Military Health at the beginning of this year to take all necessary measures to create conditions to make a qualitative step in providing health services to military and civilian insurance. This step is not enough to only improve working conditions, get the most modern medical equipment, but, as we know, it is also necessary to keep our most professional healthcare professionals. If during 2017 more doctors and other medical staff left military medical institutions, the question arises – how and how do you keep them? That is why I think it would be good for the provisions of this bill to apply to members of military-medical institutions, as it would also create conditions for the improvement of medical institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36966	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36967	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to start by saying that according to a survey conducted by the National Security Council Office, 18,905 security forces have shown interest in buying an apartment. Also, 1,462 retired persons from the defence ministry and the Serbian Army are interested in resolving the housing issue this way. We have before us a lex speciality law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security force. The law is in line with all the ministries and has now come here before us MPs. In late August, works are expected to begin in Vranje, Kralje, Kragujevac, Nis. In Belgrade, it is awaiting the establishment of a new city government. What is also important to say, and it is related to the construction of subsidized apartments for security forces, is that about 500 workers and 20 companies will be hired to carry out these construction works according to the highest standards. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which is added to point 15., which concerns investment in housing, becoming a driver of construction in Serbia, as well as overall economic growth. Basic economic criteria and indicators are primarily industry, construction, trade in large and small and other individual services. As far as economic indicators are concerned, they are expressed on the basis of survey and administrative data. At monthly and quarterly levels, economic growth is shown, and in the long run, economic growth indicators are talking about the progress of the national economy. Economic growth is a process of increasing the real gross social product and affecting the country's construction and engagement of domestic enterprises. I call on fellow MPs to vote in favour of my amendment, because they stand out how much investment in housing becomes a gearbox that will trigger the progress mechanism. I must finally take the opportunity, since here is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, just to remind myself that in some future period of priority, what we have already talked about, for Mladenvac is a very important BG or "Beovod" whatever they call it, but it is important to solve the problem of 15,000 people who work, who are educated in Belgrade, who travel daily in very difficult and inhumane conditions and for which it will certainly be a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36968	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36969	Dear Natasha, thank you for your comments and your opinion of the bill. We talked a little less than two months ago about the Bg train, talked to the mayor and "Serbia" and I believe that we will resolve the issue by autumn at the latest. You're absolutely right, and that's what we're doing on your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36970	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36971	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers and Associates, one of the most significant segments of our country's economic development is infrastructure, and the state of Serbia has understood it well and set the infrastructure as one of the priorities. Good infrastructure guarantees the inflow of new investments and the creation of new jobs. In order to continue the inflow of investments in Serbia, other than the country's economic stability, investors also pay great attention to the security of the country they invest in. Thanks to our security forces, Serbia's military and the MUP and BIA, the state of Serbia is a safe country, a country in which Serbian citizens feel safe. These people daily encounter the operation of an external and internal factor or a people's enemy, who, by their actions and actions, are trying to disrupt our country's security. Therefore, great respect and gratitude for all the security structures of great sacrifice that they make, in order for our country to remain safe, and by adopting the Law on the Construction of Apartments for Security Forces, the state of Serbia wants to fix, above all, the standard of living power of security and to show its gratitude for the sacrifice and patriotism shown towards its country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36972	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36973	President-in-Office, Honored Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Article 3(1). The bill is added to point 15 – investment in housing provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on health development. The development of each country in the correlation is with investments in infrastructure, housing, and in the newer time and faster development of the IT sector. Such investments provide an improvement in the state of health in Serbia in terms of increased opportunities for progress in the health sector in the areas of quality, accreditation, new ways of paying service providers, assessment of health technologies, national health technologies and accounts, licensing and continued medical education. The increased GDP in our country provides support for reforms aimed at improving the financing system at the level of primary, secondary and therapeutic healthcare. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health remains to build capacity for the development of a sustainable health care system aimed at the results in which healthcare providers are rewarded for quality and efficiency, where health insurance allows access to accessible and effective healthcare. As a border town on the right bank of Drina, Loznica has always provided medical services to all citizens on both sides of our river in her health and health care facilities and in the general hospital, not making a difference where anyone comes from. Only the existence of border crossings on the Drina River, which some say separates the east from the west, although I think it connects them, requires the existence of a number of security forces in the Podrinj territory, starting with border officials, police and military officials, customs officials, BIA officials. So I ask our Government and the Resort Ministry to consider building such apartments and the territory of the city of Loznica in accordance with the possibilities in the future. Local self-government will provide maximum support and provide all the conditions prescribed by law, related to the construction of municipal and other infrastructures in the function of the housing complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36974	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36975	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had the intention of making an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, in point 15, further define the concept of investment in housing, in order to highlight the importance of full respect for children's rights through the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. As already mentioned, the government of the Republic of Serbia will invest more than 64m euros in construction and will lack infrastructure in the first phase, when building 1578 apartments at six proposed locations is planned. This will be the beginning of resolving housing issues and providing families with security services. I would have taken the opportunity to remind myself that only six years ago, the state was in front of bankruptcy. The Sundoor of public finances, the empty register, the country in debt and almost without perspective and future, it was a picture of the work or rather the negativity of those who slowly disappear from the political scene today and I would say deserved. Today, not only has the financial stability of the state and its continuing economic growth been ensured, but the budget has defined funds for the systematic resolution of many key problems, important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and above all issues, employment, nationality and now the housing of families of security services. This is an indication that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vucic, is making unmistakable efforts to establish an environment that will contribute to the overall development of the state and thus allow for a better, safer and more quality life for all of our citizens. So everything we do today, what we strive to fight for, will have weight and invaluable value for generations that are just coming. Therefore, investment in children, in their carefree lives, is an investment in the future of our country. I would add, and by doing so, the SNS will provide clear and unambiguous support for the adoption of this bill, in order to implement and implement the idea as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36976	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? He's not there. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36977	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, is ahead of us with a bill on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of security forces, initiated by President Aleksandar Vukic, who also supported the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Ana Brnabic. Following the implementation of fiscal consolidation measures, which included the regulation of public finances and the reduction of high public debt, conditions were created for the implementation of this project to enable members of the MUP, the armies of the Republic of Serbia, the BIA, and members of the Department of Criminal Sanctions within the justice ministry to resolve the housing issue under very favourable conditions. The proposal for this law tells us that the government takes seriously the importance of members of security forces in terms of security for our country and citizens who supported and showed confidence in the responsible leadership of the state, because citizens need the peace, security that this government has given them. Also, what is important to point out, and contributes to increasing the standard of living of citizens, is that the realisation of this project has a significant impact on GDP growth in the construction sector, on the employment of the domestic construction industry, on employment growth. The provision of this law determines the obligation of domestic operators to participate which makes a significant contribution to the development of our economy in general. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36978	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Comrade Bakery.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36979	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored vice presidents with co-workers from the Ministry, here we are already in the second week where we are discussing this bill. We've heard from some opposition MPs, who aren't in the O.R. right now, that they're for this kind of positive policy, but, and then there's a lot of buts. It seems they are not for that positive policy to be implemented by those who won the elections, but their perception of democracy leads to again, that they probably believe that internal and foreign policy should be led by those who did not win the elections. They need to understand that we need to have common goals. These goals, and our common objectives are clearly a better standard of citizens and the security of citizens. We should only differ in ways, but apparently, they place every initiative by Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia's proposal, as the people would say -- immediately on the knife, declaring it unsuccessful in advance. That we do not have a common goal, that we do not have a common way to reach that goal, has also shown ourselves in the proposal of one MP from the ex-mails enough, who said that we should not share, or that we should give the members of the security services the opportunity to buy apartments, but that we should give them some other privileges. Then, at one point, he cited a Western country, a Western democracy, a transatlantic democracy, and said that the state was solving its own issue, or a matter of the security service, by giving them the privilege of not having to pay rent, or they could come into a situation that owed several thousand dollars or, I don't know, a few months to owe and that the landlord couldn't throw them out. We don't want to pass laws like this. The Serbian Progressive Party does not want to humiliate its citizens. One to humiliate, and the other to rent apartments, to put them in a position to suffer. And, this law on building apartments, according to the minister, with a favourable price and high quality is proof that Serbia is moving forward. This is one process that will last, but it's started. Regardless of all the defensive views of individuals or parties, SNS MPs and its coalition partners will not give up, but will continue even more quickly, even better to follow the guidelines that President Aleksandar Vukic has drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36980	Thank you, fellow Bakery. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36981	I thank the chairman Marinkovic. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the importance and responsibility of the work carried out by members of the Security Force, as well as their importance for the security of the entire state, it is very important that this law be passed and I am pleased to support it. Modern apartments will be built that security forces will be able to buy at a price of up to 500 euros per metre square metre. If it were an economic price, each of these apartments in Belgrade would cost at least 1,000, 1,300 euros per meter per square metre, saying it is not some cheap apartment, but a modern one that can be bought with the help of the state by members of our military and police at a lower price. Serbia needs motivated military and police members who will be able to protect our country and citizens against all threats. This government that is responsible has recognized and taken steps to resolve these very important issues for our citizens. In addition to the fact that this law will resolve their housing issues and certainly have a positive impact on the overall security of our country, this construction also achieves other non-essential objectives. The domestic construction industry, as foreseen by the law, is growing GDP in the area of construction, VAT revenues are growing on various grounds, tax revenues, domestic population employment, and in those areas where these modern dwellings are being built positively affecting the attractiveness of the area and resolving municipal problems. This law certainly affects our security and Serbia's development in the area of infrastructure in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36982	Thank you, fellow Pantovic. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36983	I thank the chairman. Honored Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, in Article 3(1). The bill is added to point 15 – investment in housing provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. I have made an amendment to point out the importance of a project to build apartments for security forces and for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In the first phase alone, 5,203 apartments will be built, which will be completed by 2020. At the proposed six locations, a total of 1,578 apartments will be built soon in cities, Belgrade 400, Novi Sad 400, Nis 188, Vranja 190, Kralje and Kragujevac, which will allow for construction operations to be launched so that other business activities directly related to the construction sector will be activated. This will trigger the production of building materials and other accompanying materials needed to build these facilities. Units of local self-government, on whose territory apartments are built, will have income from property tax, which apartments, when apartments are built and new owners are listed in the real estate catalogue. The construction operation also affects the economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia and GDP. This encourages the work of small and medium-sized enterprises and stimulates employment in the economic sector, which is also the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and thus achieves a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget and GDP growth. It is necessary to highlight the effectiveness of judicial institutions on which the entire economic system of the Republic of Serbia is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36984	Thank you. Also, I'd like to inform you that the time of the SNS has been spent, just because of your plans when you speak in accordance with the amendments. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36985	Dear Vice-President, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is no doubt that this bill is proof that the promises are being fulfilled, that this law has its own humanitarian and social aspect, because the issue of dwellings for members of security is being resolved. But this bill has a multiple positive effect affecting the overall development of the Republic of Serbia due to tax increases, due to the domestic construction industry, and it is also very important and an opportunity to improve human resources and human resources in the area of construction and housing, which is also the subject of my amendment. It is good that the construction of apartments started in towns within the interior, for a later phase Belgrade is envisaged, and this is proof that this government is taking care of each part of Serbia and this is a message that the development of all parts of Serbia is equally important for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Budget savings, a household business that has affected and reduced unemployment from 28% to 13%, then a reduction in the public debt that is due by the end of the year by the end of the year to below 50% with real indicators that GDP will be over 4% at the end of this year, showed and allowed to allocate funds in the housing budget. I believe that the project of housing, which is the subject of this law, will go as planned. It is no doubt that he is of national interest and will not stop for these first six cities and will also be planned for the next ten cities in the following year, but that this project will continue and will expand to other non-military citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36986	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36987	Just one more sentence, I'm done. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have responded extremely positively to the bill and are now sending support to the government of the Republic of Serbia through our national representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36988	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 4 of the amendment. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36989	Zorana Mihajlovic seems to have slept through part of her political past, so she says here that for 30-40 years no one has done what she is doing, when it comes to addressing the housing needs of the security service. As long as Zorana Mihajlovic, Labus, Dinkic and the rest of the bullulument were not in the five-octobar bulldozer revolution by long pipes, the state of Serbia also took care of resolving the housing issues of the security service. There are entire neighborhoods in the cities of military apartments, entire buildings of police, local self-government, then municipalities, had the obligation to allocate some funds annually to make apartments and these apartments were granted free of charge to these people, with the right to use, with the possibility of buying, according to the House Act. Yesterday one MP says – we're talking about some time of socialism, now it can't. Imagine, Zorana, a copy has appeared to you amongst these advances, one and only, and says: we can't compare this and that time. We can. Look, in the modern world that you look up to, look at Finland, the Netherlands, Austria, Sweden, there the army gets from the state's apartment, doesn't buy them through banks, and if it buys them from the state, then they're loans by the state, no banks, no interest, etc. So don't tell us, it's okay, you're gonna do this, you're gonna do this, you're gonna do it, and you're gonna have to do a lot more than this to do, but don't convince us that you're gonna find hot water, it's been invented a long time. Zorana Mihajlovic has remained in debt here to answer several questions. We asked, and now we've got some new data on the rink in the Gredella ravine. The slide took off two years ago, two months ago, and three weeks ago, we never knew who was responsible for it. You say - you'll hire the World Bank to help you with your recovery, that's what you said in some media, these cuts and potential slides. But you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, already hired the World Bank, so their experts did geological research. The question is whether you disobeyed them and failed to comply with the results of these surveys, so this is either happening to you or they did not do it well, and we paid. Well, it would be nice if you could explain to the MPs what this really is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36990	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36991	First of all, let me thank you for supporting the draft law to build apartments for security forces. I understand that from your opinion and comment. Thank you for that. I don't want to talk about your political past, I'm proud of my proudness, since everyone's political past, after all, to make certain percentages in the election. So, percentages are known in the SRS elections in Belgrade, these are the last elections, and they are known, thank God, percentages in the SNS elections in Belgrade, Alexander Vukic, so that is incomparable. It is the trust of the citizens that the SNS has, that it can not only run the state, but that we who, thanks above all to President Alexander Vukic, get these percentages, as you say, agree fully here, go and implement projects that are important to our country, for security, on the one hand, and on the other hand, for our economic development. The second question you asked has nothing to do with the draft laws, 20 laws, but I will gladly answer you. First of all, you were wrong about one matter of consulting. No report yet from the World Bank consultant that deals exclusively, and that's why we took it, to check all the cuts on Corridor 10, both on the eastern and southern arms, we still haven't received that report. We just need to get a report, and based on that report, then the Serbian Corridors company will decide if there is anything further to be done. Now let me tell you that everything that is done on Corridor 10, the project was done long before in general in 2012, before the arrival of SNS and Vukic in general, because, unfortunately, Corridor 10 has been doing 20 minor years, so these are projects from that period, and it was really in the meantime and a lot of changes in geology due to different weather opportunities, which conditioned certain projections. In any case, I believe that so far everything that has happened on Corridor 10, because it is the hardest construction site, no single dinar has been paid additionally from the budget or from the Serbian Corridor budget. So everything that happened, the performers had to fix and finish, and indeed there were two situations that couldn't be predicted and that weren't foreseen by the projects. So, you don't have to worry, Corridor 10 is safe, it's safe and when it's over, and the consultant's elected, and they're independent people, just because we didn't want to take the institutes that did the projects themselves, to check out the hardest parts of the site again, so we don't have any problems afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36992	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Sreto Peric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36993	Article 107(1), the speaker at the National Assembly session, is obliged to speak the truth and to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. It is the same if it applies to the MPs of the people, including ministers and other guests who come to the National Assembly. Mrs. Mihajlovic, we here present SRS MPs were members of the SRS, represented the ideology of the SRS, and best represented the interests of the largest number of Serbian people in Serbia and other Serbian citizens. The proof of that was our 50+1 parole, and we had that wish, and we achieved it and won about 40% of the votes. Your party that you belonged to shouldn't have gone to the election alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36994	Comrade Peric, you're replicating the minister. I ask you to return to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36995	I'm just saying that you were obliged to warn Mrs. Mihajlovic that there is a law here on the agenda that she should know best from everyone, and in the last two days she showed that this is not the case. We know well, because no one here sits on the ears, or the citizens sit on their ears, what Mrs. Mihajlovic said when the debate was in principle about this law, and what she was saying today, how many apartments and so on. We also understand fellow MPs from the SNS who are trying to protect her dignity at least a little bit. Guys, that's not possible. If someone was a member of a political party who was a criminal, I'm not going to say in a direct way that Mrs. Mihajlovic is a criminal, but I really should...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36996	Why are you replicating her? You have the right when she mentions you to replicate, but to debate with anyone, including Mrs. Mihajlović, in this way it makes no sense because you took the right to reply, and I gave you my word in the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thanks for the suggestions. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic. First, a colleague called Orlic, and then you did. I'm on my way. [[First I asked for a replica.]] Just patience. Please, I don't want to debate like this. Just wait your turn, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36997	Mr. Chairman, will you give me back my time, please, so we can take a nice turn? Introduce Mrs. Radet to the Rules of Procedure, if necessary. I answered because the lady mentioned one of the SNS MPs called it a copy. Is that what you said? So, on our part to make this look like something, we always get these grades and always uncontrollable wishes on the other side of some to seem personal, to show their emotions, pretty negative, and to our MPs, so now, here's the thing, they've made an effort to speak in the same tone to the present minister. We can call here to decent behavior as much as we want, some of us seem to be able to do just as they show. The truth is, and in that sense, I won't talk about socialism at all, your ideological like-mindeds just arrived, so talk to them on that subject, the truth is, our MP reacted yesterday to the notorious nonsense spoken here on how much it cost the average square in Belgrade, and then other cities were mentioned. It was all wrong to an evil God, and we simply pointed it out politely. Read, tell how much these values are. Is that why someone's angry? He may be angry, it's not controversial, and he has even the right to be angry, but to call us specimens or whatever you've already said, you don't have any right to do that. At least you have the right to speak in the context of some terms such as a criminal or a criminal, please do not remind yourself of who is all the criminal and who was the criminal and who of these criminals has been largely and personally funded. I don't think a lot of people are worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36998	Thank you very much. The Faith of Radet, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u36999	In fact, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic should know that this is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia but the National Assembly. In the government, she may have talked about the draft law. This is about the bill. Education free, no problem. As for the story of how much the party that won the last election had a percentage, you know why they went so well? Because Zorana wasn't on the list, and if she was, we'd bust. As for Zorana's claim that no money from the budget went to Corridors, to bug fixes, etc., let you let what the works are secured, we know how it works and how it is done, but the fact that there have been three major problems in Corridor within a year and it is nothing normal, Ms. Mihajlovic. All the money invested in Corridor is the money of Serbia's state, Serbia's citizens. Unfortunately, on the basis of these election results, you were given to have these money. A colleague mentioned earlier that someone here was talking about squares in Belgrade, about the values of squares in other cities, etc., do not confuse things or some MPs have not read the bill or do not know the essence of this law. No one here talks, no one talks about the market value of apartments, it's about the cost of construction. The price of construction is the same everywhere in Serbia, only thing is whether local self-government, since you did not regulate the law to commit local self-government, and you should have provided land and where it is possible for the municipal infrastructure, but you left it as a possibility. He can't do it in law. It can't even be a more honest government, and let alone you in power, and please, don't interrupt me, Mrs. Zorana has spoken for two minutes and 48 seconds, and I'm doing it neatly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37000	I won't. Finish it. As far as you're concerned, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37001	So you can't treat this bill or any of them, we don't trust you. Okay, you don't care, but you're gonna care because you don't care what we think about it. I repeat again, Zorana Mihajlovic said that no money from the Republic of Serbia's budget has gone to any repairs in the Corridors, but for her underwear it really is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37002	Thank you. Well, as far as the ratings are concerned, you have a factor plus, so check it out. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37003	Okay, I see that you've missed me very much these two days, and I'm going to have to propose to the Prime Minister that every law that comes to parliament, that I am empowered to be here every time so that you have someone to show you that kind of food, and I think that's knowledge. First of all, you can call me whatever you want, the fact is that this bill is in front of you, and that after really many years, more than three decades, I repeat, solve the problem, the housing problems of people who are employed in the military, the police or the BIA. If someone had done it before, as you say it is, then there would be no more than 23,000, 24,000, 25,000 people who have a problem when we talk about housing issues, right in these institutions, these organs. Secondly, which is important, one thing is not clear to me, and let me repeat it again because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of you, because you know very well, but you deliberately twist how you like it, you use it, but because of the citizens of Serbia. Every unforeseen circumstance that occurred on Corridor 10 at the most difficult construction site in Europe, which is currently the Gredel ravine, and there have been unforeseen circumstances, there are certain companies, institutions and supervisions that are obliged to check it and report it, which they of course have done. So no single dinar has been paid to fix it from the budget either the Government of the Republic of Serbia or that the government has transferred it to the Corridors or from the loan. So that's what the contractors had to fix about their cost, which they did. All reports, if the SRS wants, can get all the reports through parliamentary questions and whenever you ask a parliamentary question, you get the answer. Secondly, when you're talking to me, and I quote you -- don't be silly, then my question to you, you're talking about hairs, the class of apartments, so now I don't know what your subject really is and why you're even asking the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37004	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37005	Mr Marinkovic, I am advocating Article 27 and Article 116 which clearly states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure also apply to all other participants at the session of the Assembly. You were now obliged to pay attention in the manner of treatment and in the dictionary Zorana Mihajlović, the outgoing vice president of the Republic of Serbia, when she repeatedly responded to Verica Radeti, and especially when she said that she would ask for something because we are not likely to be educated enough or needed for her to irritate us, or some inspiration. No, your appearance, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is a synonym for something bad you do for Serbia, because it has been proven that you work for the interests of Western forces, and you, Mr. Marinkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37006	My colleague Jovanovic, are you replicating now?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37007	You, Mr. Marinkovic, since you are a man who every day on one television with a national frequency, and I don't want to make a commercial, you talk about Serbia's economic and other successes, then you need to be so bold and brave in that position as the chairman, so you can mention the case when a scandal happened with foreign investors, to the transformation last year...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37008	Please, it's not a topic right now, we're not talking about it right now. I'm sorry, I have to stop you now so this doesn't turn into a replication and that kind of debate, so I'm setting a break of one minute in accordance with Article 112, so we'll move on with our work. [[After a break.]] The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37010	In accordance with Article 32 of Zoran Mihajlovic asked us earlier what was interesting to us and what was really our theme. Very offensive behaviour and no wonder, she is the minister who publicly told the president of the Assembly to lie from there, and Maja Gojkovic sat there, laughing and Anna Brnabic behind the back...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37011	My colleague Radeta, as my colleague Martinovic said a few days ago, means I am absolutely not going to let you crucify Zorana Mihajlovic here. So, like in Golgotha, you're doing it and it doesn't make sense. I want to continue in one normal tone and stream, keep working on the amendments. If you like it, you like it, if you don't, no problem. The word is Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37012	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished citizens, there are several essential issues. First, I don't know if it was a lapus or not, I know it's not 1578 apartments from you, Minister Stefanovic said 5,000 apartments in the first phase in two years. We read the law, we know what it says, whether it was a mistake in numbers or not, I'm not asking for myself, I'm asking for people who will apply and who applied, there are 18,900 of them and they want to get a roof over their heads. The other thing is that DS, of course, supports that all members of the security sector get a roof over their heads. The third and very important thing is that members of the security sector believe that this project will really be done, that it will really be done under these conditions and at these prices, when we know it was promised to square the 380-euro construction, even in 2014. Of course, it was nothing. I'm not saying this so we wouldn't want this built either. No, we want members of the security sector to get a roof over their heads and finally at cheap prices, get apartments. Finally, a concrete thing that no one has responded to me here for days, which is cheap in 500 euros per square cent to members who receive an average salary of 30,000 thousand dinars, when 72% of the members of the Ministry of Defence who leave the army on a personal request, when members of the Ministry of the Board are reduced salaries by SNS, their diaries have been reduced and their pensions have been reduced since, under this law, people who are retired and have worked in the security sector. Just a few days ago, while you were here defending the thesis that everything was great in this country, Minister Vulin, yesterday or yesterday, defended the the thesis that everything was great in the military, Srdjan Ristic, the gynnis recordman, and we don't have them in every municipality in every city, left the army and made a statement that he did it because of an extremely difficult material situation in which the military members are. I'm not saying I'm glad about that. The Democratic Party is an opposition to you, but it's not the opposition to Serbia, but people, we don't have people who have achieved the Ginnis records at every turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37013	Thank you, fellow Milojich. Zoran Zivkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37014	Any bill aimed at solving a problem must be based on facts. We have a bunch of lies here. So it's incorrect that 29,000 members of the security structure haven't solved the housing issue. It is incorrect that 18,900 of them came forward and accepted conditions that still do not exist. How can they accept anything? It is incorrect that by the end of the year the construction of 5,200 apartments will begin, as it is, remember, or not to remember, a minister or minister present at the moment, but you said 1570. It is incorrect that 30 years has not solved the issue of housing for people in the security sector, it has always been solved, in the 1990s, and in the 2000s and before. It hasn't been solved, but it's always been solved. Therefore, do not lie to base good intentions under quotes, and try to speak, we have done, and we will not do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37015	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37016	Here's this opportunity to first address the citizens of Serbia, because on this left here the representative of a political party who spoke obviously comes only from time to time here, and if he had been here since this morning, then he'd probably have heard one five times the information repeated. It is, dear citizens, so by 2020 we must finish 5203 apartments, at least for members of the military, police and BIA. We are starting the first 1578 apartments already in August in three Serbian cities. We hope and believe that these apartments will be even more and we believe that after more than 30 years, we will finally solve the final issue of housing problems that security forces have. So, some others are dealing with their political parties and about who will be their party president, which group, which lobbys within the political party, some others have only to tell us that something is not over, and they left the wasteland behind. Facts show that Serbia today looks completely different than in a previous period. How long will we hang out, say, here in parliament, me and the representatives of the party sitting like this from the SRS, I would say first of all, not because I won't be a minister, but it seems to me that this seems to be your last term, given the results of the Belgrade elections and 2.4% of how many radicals have been made in those last Belgrade elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37017	Thank you. Valdimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37018	Thank you. Because a few notes have been made, as they say, of broader importance, from the man who mentioned Ginis, although I think when he tells Ginis to think exclusively of Ginis' beer. He asked what was favourable in the price of 500 euros squares? It's a shame he didn't discuss it with ideological thinkers, and I recommended it, because no one knows who gets it better. But to go out on the street and ask a man what he thinks, if 500 euros a square is favourable and I'm livingly interested in what he'd hear. He must not ask, because it is a serious question of whether he will run into a man who personally considers him responsible, for the catastrophic damage he experienced in the Smederjev Palace, whether a man considers himself personally responsible for the lack of electricity or for a man he once again considers personally responsible for his lack of water. Imagine when? In this millennium. Whether something is wrong or not, since he asked the question, is something said here a mistake, and I think it's absolutely no mistake. The fact that his party, if it can be called a party at all, his yellow company, received more than 2% of the votes in Belgrade, and I think there is no mistake. I don't think it's any mistake or anything from where he's coming from, he's dropped three times in support of his yellow company. I don't think it's any mistake that the said yellow company doesn't cross the census anywhere in Serbia. Since he loves to talk very much about Serbia's military, the security sector, its president in resignation, i.e. the company's director, the yellow company in the resignation, Dragan Sutanovac, is now at a gathering where he is very throatless and without any burden to represent the president or director of anything, but rather with his soul being relieved, advocates the accession of Serbia to the NATO Pact. Is that a mistake? It's just no mistake, it's very well-known what it is and how it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37019	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37020	Article 27(2) has hurt you personally, and you have injured all the members. You have also hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. Such a relationship, Mr Marinkovic, condescending to one minister compared to the MPs, is absolutely unacceptable. We're not interested in your personal relationship. The fact that Scott might be coming to her for fame and for you, that's your personal business. We don't have anything to do with it. The minister, to address lawmakers in the way that Zorana Mihajlovic is addressed, is something that is unrecorded. I said, that's how she addressed the president of the National Assembly, and that's how she treats the Prime Minister. Her boast here must be contained. You must take care of the Rules of Procedure. Get out of here, do whatever you want. Here you must preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Marinkovic. Zorana Mihajlovic is not a sacred cow, but a minister the MPs can say anything about. So, take care, don't play with the work, with the function you're currently performing. And we won't let you do that, be sure. We're not going to let these guys yell, no matter how many of them there are. We won't let the Rules of Procedure be broken for days, all in a row, by speech by amendment, by principle debate. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure all the time. What you did today is the highlight and it must no longer happen in the National Assembly. We are not interested in Zorana Mihajlovic personally, or her position on the SRS. She is afraid that we will no longer be in parliament, because then when we are in power, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you will be in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37021	Thank you. Is there anything I can say? Of course, I owe you an explanation. Let someone else have a different opinion from you. So we have different perceptions and a reference framework for decency. We have the right to do that. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I don't need your explanation... () All right, the congregation will plead. Who said that? ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37022	Article 103, position 8. Mr. Chairman. I won't be long, but since you keep avoiding it, I wanted to distract you and ask you. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in Article 103 of Article 8, you have the right to give a person a sign that he does not need time to discuss what he has at his disposal, that he does not know what he will do with himself, let alone the time he has, that you go out to meet him, that you shorten that debate for a time that is clearly a clear surplus. This MP group, which is now having so much fun, and in principle it doesn't seem to know what to do with it, there's more, it seems to me, a minute and 13 seconds, my suggestion to you is that you take it away nicely, to make things right. If they don't know what to do with it in a constructive, smart way, we'll make it easier for them. As for who's interested, and I end up with that, we, believe us, are least interested in attending debates here at the barometer level, but if we really have to do this, until that time scheduled for discussion, minus a minute and 13 seconds, that's the thing of general interest. We don't have to vote just to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37023	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. So you want the National Assembly not to be declared in voting day. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37024	I can't believe it, Mr. Marinkovic, you're sitting on your ears. They're not your ears Martinovic's ears, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37025	Let's move on. I'm taking it away from your MP's time. Please don't. I have respect for your MP group and for you personally, you know that well. Please continue. On behalf of Article 4 and Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic and Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37026	It's just a little dyspression. Remind me of what the minister said on October 2000 after the October 5th, when the birds of the ominouss, who entered the Friday-October revolution, said that we would no longer be on the trail of Serbian radicals. What happened? People and time are inexorable. Surviving the SRS, they are gone, and the other relapses that are still in the government, however, I assume the SNS will be freed as well. Namely, this is about the next one. This article says the investor will be a republican government, or Republic of Serbia, and some business society may also appear. We Serbian radicals are looking at this rationally. Here's an example of this rationality and seeing the SRS of this problem. This morning, we were informed by means of information that the Republic of Serbia bought a building of the former construction firm Rad, on the corner of Kosovo Street, where the square is 3,600m square meters. It is not the professor of the euro, but the area is measured by square meters, the euro is measured by something else. Look what it's all about. We've also been informed that the Republic will move its organs into that building and the building will be completed next year. What's more rational than thinking about 3,600 square meters in an attractive location, to transform into a living space, to divide it. You're dragging the administration into downtown Belgrade. You're making an even bigger mess, it's a bigger problem when it comes to traffic, when it comes to parking. What's better than to provide a living space, 3,600, so you have a total of 5,000 now in the first stage to do it. That's the most rational thing for you. After all, you're very good at living quarters. You provided Tomislav Nikolic with a 200 square-square apartment through Hypo Bank, at least as much information as we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37027	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37028	You mentioned company. It's the only part that really refers to the bill. So, the investor is the Republic of Serbia or a company established by the Republic of Serbia, fully owned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since there were some, I apologize, from your parliamentary group or from another, the question of whether it could be a private company etc. No, the state is an investor because we want to keep everything under control from the beginning to the end and I wouldn't comment any further. The rest speaks of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37029	Thank you. National MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37030	The bottom line is that the state is obviously setting up a monopoly in some way. If the state is behind this company, then you must provide at least approximate conditions for all investors. It is a Lex special, but don't forget that once you make an exception, it becomes a rule. This is after "Beograda na Voda" another Lex specialis when it comes to building operations. You have to take care of the consequences that will have on the other investors. You have to work very carefully with that. You have now shown this way that it is possible for a very relatively low price to do a square meter, place it on the market. In particular, this is for government employees, but you have to keep in mind how they will be handled when it comes to other square meters that are on the market for sale. You know, someone's gonna wait to say, well, by the same logic things have educational workers, they have other employees in the administration. It's the logic of things. When you multiply it by the number of squares, you see where these people are going to end up, conditionally speaking, on the free market. You know, that should be very thoughtful. That sounds nice. I don't want to say anything more ugly, that it's populist. On the other hand, you obviously have the wrong attitude when it comes to the criticism of the SRS. If we were malicious, as you're interpreting, we'd say this is an extortional move. How extorted? I feel dissatisfaction with the police and the military, so you decided to solve the housing problem, but it doesn't occur to us, because we know it's a real problem, so you have to understand that the criticisms that MPs are giving you have to accept, not to put yourself in the role of criticizing the MPs. When you're an MP, then you'll see what it's like when a representative of the executive government does that to you. You don't have the right to do that in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37031	Thank you. This was a replica. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37032	Well, to remind you, Serbia is a free country. We have the right to speak our mind, especially when we defend the proposals of such an important law, which solves several important problems. In the end, according to all the analyses and projections we've done, we'll have, it's absolutely safe, every year just from building apartments GDP growth by 1.2% to 1.4%. There's other information. Therefore, we were very careful, since you mentioned the market and what we showed. So we've shown what it's going to cost one meter square. You're right here, but that state has given up any profit. We'll also have public calls for construction. Subsidized, after all, because in a different situation, members of the military, or members of the security forces, would not be able to resolve their housing issue. As for these other comments of yours, I wouldn't comment on it. I think that citizens, in relation to everything we've done in the past few years, know very well that we are honest, responsible and that when we go into one project, we actually realize this project. We don't have an empty story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37033	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37034	You must understand that freedom is not something that is unlimited. Freedom here in this House is clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure. Your freedom reaches the very limit until you threaten the right and freedom of the MPs. And you're going across that line. You're too widely interpreting that freedom. You're in state authorities, you're a civil servant, and you're starting to teach people a lesson. Go to the election, be a candidate for an MP, then give a lesson. You must understand that you are in the role of us, criticizing the government, criticizing you personally. But you can't do it the other way around, MPs. Secondly, you explain that the government has found a way. That's right. But look. These are, you know it well, connected courts. You take it out of one bowl, it's got to spill out of the other to be the same level. You have to find a solution. How are you going to explain tomorrow, possibly, to potential investors, why they've accumulated utility services? How do you think they'll interpret? They will say – because the state used a monopoly position and conditions, so it did. You have to explain that because you cover three sectors – construction, traffic, investment. You have everything. You have the bread and the knife. You have to explain to investors how this country got to such a cheap square. How could they possibly do that on some market? We're just talking for the simple reason that we have a bad experience with the politics and ideology that you represent. It cost us everything in Serbia, it cost us to get to the bottom, maybe even below the bottom.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37035	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37036	Speaking of how well you know about market relations and money, well done, but let me tell you something. Those communal infrastructures are gone now. So the state will build a communal infrastructure that will be used by those for whom these apartments are made, but also by other investors who work other apartments. That's one thing. When you talk about whether I have the right to say yes, I am the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here today, I represent 20 draft laws, and how I will defend the bill that I think is excellent and which I finally repeat once again to the citizens of Serbia, after 30 years of solving the question of people in the military, the police, the BIA, who could not solve that issue during all possible governments and authorities, even when you were also in power. Also, if the citizens of Serbia knew, because everyone has the right to say everything, I was here, among other things, present with a situation that wasn't under the microphones, where the representatives of the radicals spoke to the other MP here and told him – a piece of garbage, tell your mom a little bit, etc. So that's what we had a chance to hear here in parliament, as the highest home, which I respect, because without this Parliament there is no realisation of any project, no law adopted. Dear citizens who listen to this and who should, in fact, get your apartments tomorrow that we're going to do, so that you know that there are those who actually do other things and they don't care if you have or don't have apartments. Unlike them, we in the Serbian government, this party here, the Serbian Progressive Party and our coalition partners, do everything we can to show in this debate and in front of the citizens what we have done, what we do, that these apartments will end by 2020 and that you will have a place to live with your families, without any rank, without getting a small apartment, so if you expand your family, you get bigger. You can apply to the size of the apartment you want. Now, that's the difference between those who care, who sit here and those who come from time to time, to show themselves in front of the cameras, and say nothing at all, but look at their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37037	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. You'll get your word, colleague Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37038	Since they can't help but mention the Serbian Progressive Party, let's understand each other about something. The Serbian Progressive Party is the party that wins 50% support in the elections and beyond. Don't get carried away, talk and even think about it so it could have been someone else. So, you others have got your measure. We're talking about parties that have 2% support. And again, completely inappropriate, ugly labelling. Were we very good because someone was or wasn't on the list, look at how things change when they look at each other from the opposite angle - and did those who got 2% get so little because they had the one they hung or not on each poster? I'm not sure they like that parallel. Did they fail how much they failed because they put on every poster the one they put on? It's embarrassing, isn't it? Think about it. Think about it when you answer to who you put on every poster, on whether you permanently ruined it with that move. The question is what? Parking in Belgrade, right? Parking is now being transferred to us by those who obviously have no idea who we have all the parking space arranged, how many new parking places there are, how many new garages and how great it will all look when we finish the project under the street of Prince Milos. And you know when it wasn't good? It wasn't good at a time when Parking Service was doing business with a minus. Imagine, a “Parking Service ” can be down! He could have at a time when he burned and burned Dragan Gilas with Belgrade. Now, you know, because you understand this weird thing called the parallel. Why do I mention Dragan Gilas? Because I can't help but recall that it was precisely Dragan Gilas who had some of his own at the time, who had welcomed faithful listeners into the boards of directors and supervisors, because they were useful to him to deal with the Serbian Progressive Party at the time. And not only in Belgrade, because there are some here who like to talk about Belgrade parking and they don't know much about Belgrade, but they know about Vojvodina. They worked so well together. Also, they were well rewarded by the yellow company in the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37039	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37040	I can't help but remember that, and you take care of these parallels, they can be terribly awkward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37041	The word is Milorad Mircic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37042	There is no reason, Mrs. Mihajlovic, to enter the fire when it comes to the debate. You have no reason, no reason at all. And don't use cheap tricks here. You are accusing the Serbian Radical Party of being the one who is preventing the construction of apartments. Don't ever take that for granted again, because we will answer accordingly. We fight for every citizen's right and we resist it. What you hear is side voices in the choir, you know, we don't give it any meaning. No party, no political option, no theoretically or in practice, could survive without ideology. No nation could survive without ideology. The only party with ideology is the Serbian Radical Party, currently on the political scene of Serbia. Change ideology, you're the best example. The diapazone is wide – from Labus to Vukic. What's in between, no one's found that yet. You're one foot away from Labus and the other you're at the Wolf's. What's going to happen, nobody knows, but we're sure you'll defend the attitudes and future your new political options, and criticise the current one called the SNS. We're 100% sure of that, because once a man breaks it, then he has no limits anymore. As for these remarks by colleagues, as far as anyone's got the votes, don't tell your colleagues, there's time. As for the "yellow company" from Vojvodina, they financed fantastically. Here's Martinovic as a witness. We are asking for the return of Vice-President Igor Mirovic, who belongs to the SRS. They don't give that mandate. We've been funded, and the advances are stealing radical mandates. This is the collaboration with the “yellow ones. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37043	Thank you. Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37044	First a few things. First, when you talk about the price, it's something I haven't yet answered, I may have partially answered, but to be quite clear, since it seems to me that you understand yourself, but here I am adding something with my humble knowledge, which is that the state, first state, is an investor, the state will not build, will build a company on a public call or a tender, which will be published. Secondly, the state and local self-government gave up all fees which will, of course, later be charged through tax revenues. Thirdly, when you throw how well you understand yourself in all that infrastructure, here, and I have here in front of me an interesting pamphlet about how you put your salary on the wife's name, so owning Hope Mircic's wife, so what kind of recreational center is that, so the surface that can't be determined, that's all they say - Mircic. So, then, all the apartments of the Mircic family - then apartment one in the street of Milovana Glisic in Novi Sad, then apartment two in the street of Cosic, also Novi Sad, then apartment three, 75 square meters in Pasic Street in Novi Sad, then apartment four in Ilija Đurin, etc. I understand your interest in apartments, I suppose that's the reason. Of course, I'm advocating, as are you, to determine the origins as soon as possible, to make a law on the origin of the property, so let's see where you got all this. That's part two of the story. As I also think that, no matter what I have the right to say here, I am not threatening you at any time. You tell me -- never say that to me again, because we will answer you properly. I'm just asking you not to threaten me, we can talk about the law by tomorrow, but without any threats. One more thing about, therefore, the yellow coalition, or the yellow company mentioned. To remind the citizens of everything, that the SRS with the DS was at one point in Belgrade in the coalition, as far as I remember, and I remember. We were the opposition then, SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37045	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37046	I think SNS ideology is absolutely clear and familiar to all Serbian citizens. So we defend the interests of the Serbian state in every place and on every plan and on political, economic and military basis, and we take care of the interests of the Serbian people in the countries that have arisen in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. As for who belonged to some parties, so in the SRS parliamentary group, I personally know one MP who was very loud today, who was at the time when Vojislav Seselj became head of the Zemun municipality in 1996, and then I knew a former MP who was a member of the Yugoslav Left, who belonged to the SRS parliamentary group, and imagine as the director of an important health institution in the Republic of Serbia, he was appointed by the very Government, the hated, this traitorous, this pro-Western, that Euro-Union, I no longer know how to call it the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, before you throw a stone at someone, in this case at Mrs. Zorana Mihajlović, since I see that she became an obsession for you whenever she comes to the National Assembly, take a look at your ranks... (The Faith of Radeta: She is a stone around her neck. ) All right, she's a rock around her neck, and you're a gentleman to Vojislav Seselj, just keep him going and in the next election you'll see how many votes you'll get. As for co-operation with DS, here's a little detail. Mr. Mircic, I mean, he knows what this is about. When the draft statute of the AP Vojvodina was adopted, and you correct me if I am wrong, two SRS MPs in the Regional Assembly gave the quorum for the work of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which adopted the proposal of the AP Vojvodina Statute, which fell to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia in two-thirds of its provisions, because it was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and because it had a tendency to make a federal unit from Vojvodina and to federalise the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37047	Thank you. Please, let's end this discussion between the SNS and the SRS now. I was correct, and I gave three replicas to my colleague Mircic. It's not good for parliament or for the state, so let's move on. Thank you for understanding. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marija Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For many years, I've been working with the Military Academy, as a civilian, or a civilian professor, and I'm probably familiar with this bill, unlike most others, and that's why I'm going to support this bill. I believe that the government should make one general law that will refer to the construction of apartments for all civil servants, and that criteria are favoured by certain groups of employees in the state administration. At the same time, I would like to ask the vice-president of the government, who is in charge, to consider whether it should be moved to a high school of war and agriculture on a military property in the Kingdom, because it is the second oldest agricultural school in Serbia, founded in 1882. I think the location for any factory building can be found elsewhere, and you should leave that school at that location, because there's a farm facility for training. I'd also like to ask, for the second time, the president of the National Assembly, if he's here, he's not... Yesterday was her birthday, so you don't think I forgot to give her a present. I sent her a day before that through the office gift. It is this shirt – Serbia without GMOs is worth more than rose. I hope they'll carry it around the house at least, if not publicly. I would ask her to call on the presidents of the parliamentary groups and make a real deal about working more rationally already. In this package, we have 20 laws in this session, I don't know exactly how many members there are in all the proposed laws, but we've almost exhausted the entire debate time for only four members and one law. Consider the consequences that this will leave for other laws to be passed without debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37049	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37050	It's article 27 again because I really don't know what's going on with you today, but don't worry about this Rules of Procedure at all. Article 107 of attitude 2 decidently and precisely says what must not be spoken in this National Assembly. You've allowed certain untruths to be brought up a moment ago, to mention the names of family members...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37051	Who? Professor Chevarlich?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37052	I said Article 27, so I went back to Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37053	You can only get directly to the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37054	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37055	You don't run the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37056	Please behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37057	I run the session, it doesn't make sense, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37058	The fact that you are defending the character and part of Zorana Mihajlovic, it is indefensible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37059	I'm not defending anyone. I only defend the dignity of this National Assembly and dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37060	Mr. Marinkovic, indefensible. You shouldn't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37061	I'm trying to be very correct with everyone. Please let me work in that tone and in that spirit. It's just my request, nothing else, to keep working. I think we have all the conditions. I was correct. Mr. Mircic replicated three times. We're moving on. Please continue in that spirit, no arguments, no hard words. I'll try to protect everyone in that sense. Thank you for understanding. Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go, colleague Vukajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37062	Thank you. Since this is a roof law, in fact, a law that is more casual than the law, because there are some sublaws behind it, because behind it is the act of the minister himself to bring about the realisation of the plans. Well, please, I'm asking the Minister now, since we don't have the correct answer to the following questions. Tell me exactly what is the real price of apartments if the state of Serbia subsidises these apartments and they will cost up to 500 euros. What does the state give since you keep saying that the state gives something? Let's see what the state gives? According to all our analysis, the state here is absolutely giving nothing, one. The second question – why did Aleksandar Vukic say a 380-euro figure when he was Prime Minister that it is possible to build a square meter of apartment, and these figures are nowhere now. The third question - please tell me who will be to the citizens or to all of these persons you say you will have a privileged position in buying these apartments guaranteeing that the same conditions will be after 2020 and that this is exactly your percentage that you are talking about over 50%, that this is exactly how you get all these percentages all this time, telling people that something will start, so stop, and keep them in the hope that if it isn't for you it's all gone. I ask you, I would like to join my colleague Mircic in publicly telling a senior official of the Government, Madam Minister, never to speak again about the percentage of the SRS, if we are talking about why we had a percentage of 2.4%, then it will not be good for you or the government. The other thing is, let me tell you one more thing, Madam Minister. That absolutely doesn't suit you, and you came here to defend the law, not to argue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37063	Thank you, colleague Vukajlović. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37064	Well, thank you, let me know. Let me know. Bravo. Now let me tell you. So, the state in building these apartments of the state that the investor is liberating, since you asked – and what the state is giving, let me put it this way. First it builds for municipal infrastructure, releases all taxis and fees, and that's something the state thinks, which is not a small percentage when building apartments, and some of your colleagues know that well. So the second question you asked, exactly how much of the building in that city is going to be, we're going to have accurate information about when the building permit project is completed. But what is prescribed by law is that the price cannot be higher than 500 euros without, of course, VAT. We expect that this price can be and lower in the interior certainly Belgrade is up to 500 euros somewhere. As for the percentage of what to do, I'm just telling the facts 2.4% in Belgrade, SRS 45%, I don't know what anger is. Don't stop me from saying that. So, I wish you all the best, but these are facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37065	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37066	This is really one inappropriate minister's behavior we've been listening to for months in this assembly. I'm asking her now -- what in her personal life has she built and done so far, when she's giving us this kind of talk about some construction and some construction, about other people's money, about other people's expenses and about the hunches of these people who owe them all the time in all the international financial institutions?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37067	Thank you. You'll agree he has the right to a political stance. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37068	Thank you to your MP group who supports the bill. We all agree that it's important to settle this issue. As far as I'm concerned, look at my biography, I'm proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37069	Thank you. Let's close the circle of replicas, please. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37070	There are also a lot of essential and legal technical shortcomings in this law, Mrs. Mihajlovic. One of these is this amendment which we warn you that you should have obliged local self-government units to allocate the funds necessary to fund this project. I am saying this for reasons I am not directed, I can say, in detail, for the other five cities in Serbia, but for Kragujevac I know, although at the session of the City Assembly, the location of Denina hill, the Kragujevac city budget, there is also a fellow MP from Kragujevac, because of the inability of such a rule by Radomir Nikolic, son of Tomislav Nikolic, is in grave trouble. Therefore, for salaries employees are taken non-stop loans and that city is unable to finance anything. So you should have considered it when you design something like this and when you commit units of local self-government, and that is what Mrs. Radeta pointed out, as an excellent lawyer, you can't say – someone can and doesn't have to. Then he has to do it, he has to finance it, he has to finance it, and he has to do all the urban and project documentation he can do, if that city has people capable of doing it. Unfortunately, the town of Kragujevac has excellent urbanists, architects, engineers, but they are all at home now or at home watching this congregation transfer or wondering when to go to the National Employment Service to apply for some donation to the height of their working relationship, because the company for the construction of the town of Kragujevac, which is the pillar and carrier of the construction of Kragujevac, since I have lived in it, and I have lived since I was born, shut down and people are now out of work. As you will infamously conclude, during the next reshuffle of the government, the Kragujevci expect to finally be released from Radomer Nikolic and go to the snap elections, so that we can raise the city to its feet, because it collapses from day to day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37071	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37072	Well, I'll agree with you that it's not a simple financial situation everywhere. When we talk about Kragujevac, I also agree, because I know how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in previous years because of everything the government in Kragujevac and found, how much of the budget reserve we helped the town of Kragujevac. Let me tell you about this project. So the planning documentation should be done by the town of Kragujevac. If it happens, I don't know, and I don't have any information that they can't do it, but if they can't finance it, there are other ways we can solve it. One way is to subsidize, let's say, because we have exactly one piece of money at the Department of Construction that we have defined as helping with the design documentation. Third, the last one would be from the budget reserve. I hope it doesn't come to that. Also, the municipal infrastructure is funded by the state. All of these are factors and reasons why, in fact, it is this price of squares that it is and why this is a major project of national importance, because we are aware that there are problems in certain units of local self-government, and on the other hand, a great need for us to solve these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37073	Thank you. Natasa Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37074	Mrs. Mihajlovic, I am responsibly saying and time will show that they will not be able, because these people are no longer working in these jobs. Lawyers, engineers, urbanists who led the town of Kragujevac during the period when and when we were the opposition government, but I can't say I remember the time of government and Bora Petrovic, Srboljub Vasović, Živorad Nesić and other mayors and Veroljub Stevanović, the longest, but it was known something, you know. The city had plans, you set up, you from SNS, for so-called. peace in the house, an incompetent man to run the city. We've been destroyed by public enterprises. By the decision of the City Assembly of five public enterprises, here is an expert in the area of economics and enterprises, chaired by the Assembly, and here it takes away our word and comes into the word, let it say – what city is it? Let Martinovic or anyone say, he's done one thing out of five companies. Where can this work and a project be implemented? So it's one thing for someone to have something in mind and another question for you, was and was changing you in the first day of your absence, Minister Stefanovic said on our direct questions, about people who are unable to apply for this and to single out 10% of them, that they are wartime disabled, children of fallen fighters, that they are regulated by sublegal acts and the rule of who can be, how they will raise that money, we are told that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to form certain funds. I ask you, do you have information in these six cities, here for Kragujevac you are looking for, has the City of Kragujevac, since Radomir Nikolic, executed a list of public property and everything the city has? I absolutely mean the land and all the facilities that can come to public auctions to be sold, and that one such fund is formed. Where will money be found for that fund to help these numbered faces?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37075	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37076	This is an important question that you have asked, related to wartime military disableds or children of fallen fighters, but we have already solved one of the previous laws, I can't remember whether you voted for this law, but the House Act, it's a kind of housing support, has a lot of right to have that application and money and thus solve these very problems of these people, these groups of people who are so far not being solved. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: And the military homeless? · Global Voices And they, and the homeless soldiers, shall I repeat, and the homeless men of war. There was even an association of homeless soldiers, we were at our house for a conversation, and we kept an eye on it when we were making housing laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37077	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to hear what this particular problem in the City of Kragujevac was caused by Mr. Radomir Nikolic. So what he did specifically to the damage of the town of Kragujevac, except that he inherited huge debts from the previous government, and except that he became mayor of a city that was economically devastated, which was overindebted and which could not function completely normally. It would be nice if those problems could be solved in a year or two, but it's just not possible. I think the Serbian government has a very clear analysis of the financial situation in each local self-government, and from that analysis it can be very clear when these problems have arisen and ultimately who caused these problems. Mr. Radomir Nikola as mayor of Kragujevac, I suppose it's not at all simple to do his job. I haven't heard that he's involved in any kind of affair, I haven't heard that he took anyone's bribe, I haven't heard that he's in any form of corruption, I know that it's hard for a man and I know that a man is trying with his team to do everything possible to get the City of Kragujevac out of a very difficult economic and financial situation that he's not responsible for. As for the list of assets in Kragujevac. It is true that property is probably not listed in Kragujevac city of Kragujevac, but to remind you, the Law on Public Property was passed, if I am not mistaken in 2010, and you see when Radomir Nikolic was elected Mayor of the City of Kragujevac, so let us ask why even if the job did not start working, if those who led the town of Kragujevac had failed to finish it before Radomer Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37079	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. Natasha Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37080	I don't know, Mr. Martinovic, why you have the need in a political sense to dig your own pit. You know very well in the SNS that it is conditional, literally said, that Radomir Nikolic is still mayor of Kragujevac, you know and the situation, you are not naive and on your City Committee, I will not enter these things of yours, and that people are simply dissatisfied because he is members of his family, his schoolmates, incompetent people, that he has appointed people from the party, that is, secondly, party people who deserve and qualified for some functions and members of the Council. The city's bigger town of Kragujevac, Mr. Martinovic, is responsible for this, has not held a session for two years. The sessions are being held via e-mail. As a member of the City Council, you will receive an e-mail containing the agenda and make your statement. Where's that? He did inherit the difficult situation, but he was just replaced by the previous mayor whom we also sharply criticised, we Serbian radicals and I personally, for everything he did for both the things and the benefits that Fiat got, and he shouldn't have gotten from the city, as well as from the state, because the fate of that factory is uncertain, but why didn't he start doing one job? And you say he's not involved in any affair. Mr. Martinovic, his mother, Dragica Nikolic, at the location of the children's park, at the entrance to a large park in the town of Kragujevac, at the resort where I spent my entire life, where I live today, across the street from the park, was given the opportunity to build the park for the benefit of the city through the "Dragica Nikolic" Foundation. She reported, and the City of Kragujevac ratified such a financial report, that it spent 600,000 euros to equip the children's park. Yours are, I believe, a little grown-up kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37081	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37082	Please let me finish. There are MPs here who have little children. I invite you, come to Kragujevac for guests, take the children to this unsecured park that could have cost 100,000, and everything is done through the company "Bankovic" from Crna Trava, which does jobs for the Nikolic family and so launder, steal and rob money.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37083	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, by asking the MPs if it wasn't for the mayor of Kragujevac, is there in the local assembly, and neither is the topic of the former President of the Republic of Nikolic, he is our president formerly and beg for respect and to conclude this debate. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37084	I do not understand until the end whether a colleague is dealing with the situation at the SNS City Committee in Kragujevac or dealing with the situation in the City of Kragujevac. It's two completely different concepts and two completely different categories. We're a little bit, and you see how you, when I have to say it like that, but come on, I'll try to be as polite as possible, I wanted to say something else, you have double standards. When you mention the wife of one of your MPs, you start yelling at the chairman, waving at the Rules of Procedure, threatening, you get very angry and aggressive. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: She is not a public figure. He's not a public figure, but he's a member of the family, the wife of one of the MPs. According to this, Dragica Nikolic is not a public figure, which function does she perform? But when Radomir Nikolic is mentioned and Tomislav Nikolic is mentioned, Dragica Nikolic must also be mentioned. It's perfectly normal for you. What's going on at the Dragica Nikolic Foundation? If you have any knowledge that some abuses have been committed or that there has been a violation of the law, report it to the competent state authorities. But I don't understand what Radomir Nikolic has to do with the fact that you're not satisfied with what the children's playground in the town of Kragujevac looks like? You're inviting me to come to Kragujevac, I've been to Kragujevac many times, and what I can tell you is that in person I've talked to Radomer several times about the situation in the City of Kragujevac and I know what problems a man faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37085	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37086	Here, I'm done. I know what you want now. You want to split the SNS into two currents. Now, like, there's some Tom's advances, there's some wolf's advances. There's one SNS run by Alexander Vukic, and that's clear to everyone. But I am obliged to protect the man who is for you the punching bag, he and his father and his mother, which I think is extremely inhumane, incorrect, because neither Dragica Nikolic nor Tomislav Nikolic nor Radomir Nikolic are the MPs and I cannot answer you. When you're angry with the mention of your family members, make sure that some other people have their own families.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37087	Thank you. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37088	Mr. Martinovic, I don't care about the situation in your party or in Kragujevac or anywhere, you will discuss it yourself, but I speak the language of the facts. So, the whole town knows, it's not a park, it's washed there or whatever, there are no Kragujevac MPs from other parties, they probably shouldn't tell you that, 500,000 euros. It's not about, Mr. Martinovic, something like that, children come and play, it's about the possibility of taking money. Dragica Nikolic is a public figure. She is still the president and founder of the foundation that has received some strategic projects in our city, and in shame and shame, so is this son of Dragica Nikolic, that in the history of Kragujevac, this year we mark 200 years after Knjaz was declared the city of Preston, in the year the jubilee of the great for our city and our history was won, imagine, Mr. Lazanski, Dragica Nikolic received the poster of the highest St. George of sons, without knowledge and without voting on the larger city, without the decision of the assembly and greater. You are now defending one dynasty, as the tabloids call it, I will not, which is enriched on the basis of this function, and the chairman says – well, it is a nice man, our former president. A fine man who's made a huge fortune during his five-year reign, and he's paid a little more than yours. How is that possible, Mr. Marinkovic? Now there's a pond in Bajchetina or something. You come back and chat with Radomer Nikolic again, go through whatever you want, climb up and defend him here, but it's indefensible. I'm telling you nicely and responsibly, people who are professional, and I've spoken to Mrs. Secretary, and I'm here, in companies that need to be the bearers of this project, and she's going to face herself, and she's not going to have people out there to realize it, but she has a government, she says the possibility of doing it, because these people are left, unfortunately, without a job. Many have left because the lawyers, like you, who are from the legal profession, who tried to execute his taking over the city are a list of property in lawyers because they didn't have a conversation on the other side, because he doesn't know anything about anything, but he was appointed as the son of such a father to that function and we believe that we Kragujevci will soon see his back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37089	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37090	If indeed, as you say, Mrs Jovanovic, it would not be clear how the SNS won 40 seats in the 2016 local elections in Kragujevac and how many votes you won. It's impossible the Kragujevci don't know about all those affairs you know about. You're not the only ones living in Kragujevac. I guess that's where some other people live who know what Radomir Nikolic is and what kind of family he comes from. I see your atmosphere in the assembly is very entertaining. I can only give you a well-intentioned advice, but I know you won't listen to me. Instead of dealing with Radomer Nikolic and Darko Glisic and SNS, you better deal with your own party, as the election results showed you that you are very poor with citizens. Okay, you're standing well at 2.4%. Just to tell you something, Mrs Jovanovic, when Tomislav Nikolic was leaving the SRS, do you remember the SRS statement that was personally dictated by Vojislav Seselj of The Hague tribunal? That the SRS thanked Tomislav Nikolic for everything he did for the SRS. At that time, you did not mention Dragica Nikolic, Radomir Nikolic, apartments, foundations, his wealth, his clothes, or anything like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37091	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37092	So then you were grateful to him. You're saying something different today. To end this debate, because it's really degutant and into some spheres that really aren't for the People's Assembly, it really doesn't make sense that we're dealing with anyone's families, and it really doesn't make sense that we're digging into anyone's past. It's very simple. No one argues that the town of Kragujevac is in a difficult economic and financial situation. I invite you, Mrs. Jovanovic, if you can help make the situation in Kragujevac better, help. If you can bring in an investor, bring in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37093	I need to turn off your microphone, 50 seconds. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37094	Article 101, that's according to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the situation that MPs get away from the subject, when we discuss such topics and similar ones, then you as chairman have a business opportunity, you can call for consultations, you can do something else, that's to set a break, but you have to be just and just to all. You know, you let countless lies and an avalanche of lies be brought about against the messengers, about individuals, and then you say, "Now in the name of my work, I will end it, and we will go to another topic." You know, it's already transparent. There is a series of lies here, and you, when you notice it, instead of interrupting, ask MPs for correctness, don't. There's a series of untrues just now. Why did Vojislav Seselj dictate that he thanked Tomislav Nikolic? Because he lied to continue with the ideology of the SRS and the SRS programme. He reckoned, one day he'd come to his senses, he'd see it wasn't all about money. That's the reason. We do not disown those who have sinned, those who have bowed down. A man can kneel, he can make a mistake, and he can stand up, he can correct his own mistake. You know, she's old, she can get sick, it's not his fault, it's not his fault, but if she doesn't heal, it's a mistake. We have convinced that Tomislav Nikolic does not have a cure that can cure him. Greed caught him. The fact that Vojislav Seselj was a well-intentioned and openhearted SRS, what's wrong with that? You, instead of breaking up and saying, we're going to have a consult, we're going to take a break, you're going to let go. Not to mention other things and other details that are presented as false. But what he's saying is, we're all gonna go to the other world, and he's got the Almighty, and he's gonna see. What Alexander Martinovic is doing is on his soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37095	Thank you. I agree, and I call upon other people's messengers not to insult each other. You've had a very correct debate, so it's not a dispute. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. I agree that we continue and that we are away from the subject. The word has Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37096	Article 112, Mr. Chairman, that's the member he wanted to point to Mr. Mircic, but he was wrong. So, in the proposal for you to take a short break and reset this debate, which I think everyone agrees to for good is that it doesn't make much sense long ago. He wanted to point to Article 112, so I wanted to be kind and help in that sense, to tell you what member it was. Without any influence on the fact that it was said by a man, everything inspired by the fact that it's important that there are things like a soul, some things that are more important than money. A representative of those who, after the event they're talking about, now a year or two later seem to understand, what, that in the world is the most important money, that this soul is not so important, because the year, two, after the event they're talking about now, went nicely to the entanglement of Dragan Gilas. Is that what happened? Is that how it went? Were your boards and boards of directors at the time? They did. Were the events related to co-operation in Vojvodina then? They did. Then what are these conclusions, gentlemen? What are we talking about? If it is a cure for the soul, I believe it was a significant source of anxiety for many when they realized that the party led by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic had 90 percent of their brother's support they once considered common. If that was the reason for certain mental pains, I understand that, but it is not the right way to put that kind of pain in the air through co-operation with Dragan Gilas and through a payday on some supervisory or board. In order for these matters to be well thought out, I wanted to suggest to this occasion, Mr. Chairman, that, in accordance with Article 112, you give or take a minute or two, and I believe that the conclusions drawn will definitely be good and definitely useful. Among other things, created for the soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37097	As far as I'm concerned, I also support Mr. Mircic's proposal and yours, can consult, can be a short break, but I don't think there's any need for us to continue to agree on that. Here, Mr. Jojic, shows me to move on. All right. Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37098	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, the SRS, do not want to disenfranchise this law but rather the opposite. We want to point out his shortcomings, we want him to be better. The law is written so that it leaves space for machinations, whether it is purposely written and drawn up or the government has no professional people, we don't know, being that it's both. In the explanation, as something commendable, it says that an increase in credit activity in the banking sector is expected because security members will take loans, so it will have a multiplier financial effect on the economy. Well, we haven't put them in charge yet, so there's one more dry drain left to drain, and that's under the parole of economic growth. We said yesterday that we advocated that apartments be free. Although Minister Mihajlovic argues there will be fixed interest rates, there will be state participation, there is no law. The ministers who were here yesterday and are confused, they know nothing about the fact that Minister Mihajlovic already has a deal with a bank. It's for the government and for us, it's a mystery. This has to be regulated immediately before this law comes into force, and certainly before applying to the competition, because these unfortunate people who are going to have to camp for days in front of some unknown institutions so far to get their turn, they need to know what they're getting into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37099	Thank you, colleague Ristic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37100	I can't believe that my dear colleague Natasa Jovanovic talks about Kragujevac in the way she talked, if she had in mind that before Radomir Nikolic had managed that city, for God's sake, Mladjan Dinkic and Zorana Mihajlovic. But it's probably all that, but I just can't believe it. Madam Minister, you've been changing ministries, Mrs. Damnjanovic, I think, for many years at the Ministry responsible for the building. You in different ways define the concept of a residential building in one law and another. There you need three housing units here are needed three floors, etc. You'd have to see that. There's one more thing that's really bothering me. Yes, one colleague said that citizens are thrilled about this. I don't mean to say, I don't want to be maligned that you're doing this to a good degree and doing it for enthusiasm. There's your sincere desire to solve this problem, don't say that others before you haven't done it as if we've all been living on hurricanes. And it's not like that, you know, well, it's not like that. It was working as hard as it could have been done. And this reminds me a little bit, my colleague, if I saw who threw it rightly, it reminds me when one candidate for the president of the municipality in Grockok came to ritopek and said, we'll see that we promise you, not you, we'll see that we promise you we'll do the plumbing. It bothers every normal man here why among these seven cities, not to enter now whether all of this will be fulfilled or not, will this dynamic be possible to implement, which among these seven cities in the first version or in the first stage there is no Kosovo Mitrovica, especially if we have in mind that there is left, Mr. Lazanski, you probably know about that fact. The KIM office has not spent 800 million for 2017, because you are sending a message that you will solve the housing problems of citizens in this area who are there. I have a question for you, Madam Minister, you will say that the bodies of the Federation of BiH are guilty. About a year ago around the Bridge of Bratuljub, you were at his opening. You were at his opening. At the opening, not visiting, going to work. That was the opening. You know, there was a height difference between the bridge and the terrain, there in front of five meters. I don't know how only Zeljka Cvianovic managed to climb that bridge. And you're going to say now that it's the Federation's responsible authorities, and we know it's an election year, so they're going to stall a little with that solution. You had to, I see the culprit in you. For what? Well, because you had to and indeed the bridge in the building sense is largely in the case of the state of Serbia, you had to ensure the consent that the permit would be. It's like I'd be building a residential building on Vashharski pasture now without having a permit before that. That's what you did, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37101	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37102	Let's start from this last one, so there's no delusions because it's one of the projects that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has completed from the beginning to the end, and I have to admit from the performer to the watch, in the day they completed the construction of this bridge, Bratoljub. What you're talking about, above all, is the issue of an interstate agreement and it has been waiting and the Federation of BiH is waiting. No, neither Republika Srpska nor Serbia, Serbia financing construction, Serbia has ended. What is the last information, is that they finally adopted the agreement interstate and adopted it. Secondly, when you mention housing here, so different definitions and so on, there are no different definitions, but in front of you is a bill of law called Lex specialis. So it is a special law, meaning a different law regarding housing building criteria for people who live, or who are members of the security forces. It is not like all the other laws, but on the other hand it gives us what is important for us and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as I said, on the one hand solving the problem, and on the other hand the public and transparency through public calls, tenders and so on. As for the very beginning of your comment, you can call me whatever. Wherever I've been, whatever I've been doing, but it's important what's left behind and that result, and that result is miles and miles and roads and stripes, and that result is going to be these apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37103	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37104	Mrs. Mihajlovic, your current party belonging to others cannot serve as a positive example, she speaks only of you. You go there mostly where the easiest thing to do is work. I wasn't talking about the bad situation in Kragujevac, Mrs Natasa Jovanovic just opened the problem. Confirmed it, decidently confirmed by fellow Martinovic that it was so, and you were there. This is when you talk to me about some concepts. One government ruled regulations, so it didn't get far. You're trying as much lex as you can right now and that's possible. If there's a problem that can't be solved, they haven't slowed you down in the same way that you're trying to do it. There is no other way to define the concept of apartment in the Construction Act, nor in this law. I can terms, maybe a way, so you've seen here that they've also called for a member of the Constitution, that temporary restrictions can be made on the rights of availability of private property. It's something that can be regulated through this law, and you can't define certain concepts like the apartment at all, like the apartment building and the like at all. You could, along the way, solve some people's problems that they are, security people. Very often all other colleagues do not mention at all that this law will try to resolve the housing issues of members of the Justice Department's members. Well, they may not even know it's them. Okay, in a way, maybe they could hear. There are a number of members of the police service who have received a solution to the use of the apartment, but there is no possibility of ransom when the regulation in the MUP is changed. You see, it wasn't fair and maybe these cases that I know, they're not mass, there's a few of them, but you can still do it and you have to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37105	Thank you. I'm just asking you to hold on to the time, we've already gone to the bottom, so others don't mind. Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinkovic, I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure, but you told one MP that something was not a topic, much of it wasn't a topic today, but you allowed it. So in my story, I will speak exclusively of this subject. In Article 4 of this proposal of the Law, a lot of the concerns and ambiguities of the holder himself have been expressed. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We are talking about funds for the production of missing planning and urban and technical documents. In this bill, any misunderstandings and misunderstandings are simply inadmissible. The Serbian Radical Party, to be clear, advocates its principled position, that all that is good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia accept and support, as well as this idea. We are not against the construction of these apartments, cheap apartments or apartments under favourable conditions, but we are about to extend this model to other housing categories as well. Once again, I stress that this model can only have full meaning if it applies to all other professions. We have seen that the implementation of this programme requires co-operation and full coordination between several ministries, and we have seen already yesterday, that the present minister, probably the most controversial minister in the Serbian government, with his statements, and known for his non-compliance with teamwork, and solo statements, has violated here and has led to the error and realization of this project, as well as those interested in him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37107	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37108	Perhaps then we interpret the word of error differently, because I think everything you've said is not true, but for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the public, for the sake of the citizens, what the amendment you've proposed looks like. So you're in Article 4(4). The text bill, under the pretext "in this situation", says the bill, you replaced and requested an amendment and wrote "in that case". And the sentence is this: the funds for building housing buildings for collective housing can provide and finance and a business society, and "in that situation", and you said "in that case", and that is your amendment, very inventive, therefore, in that situation, i.e. in that case, as you say, the Republic of Serbia provides funds to build municipal and other infrastructures within the housing complex. Now, that's what almost everyone looks like, not all of them, 30 amendments are deleted from your MP group, but most of the amendments are practically, synonyms, which you've put into the proposals of your amendments. I thank you for that, we've become richer, but we really can't accept that amendment, there's just no need for that, because the meaning is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37109	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miroslav Lazanski first checked in, and Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37110	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am pleased that this proposal has been made here to make this plan... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37111	Just tell me which member you're calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37112	107, 106. ... So it's about the agenda. I'm glad that it's been accepted here that this plan to build apartments at special prices is being extended to all other housing categories, and I can see that there's one skepticism about it, whether all members of the security system will be equally treated about it, but I would warn you of something that many here present probably don't know. Not all can be treated as well as members of the security service, as well as members of the army. Namely, in the collapse of Yugoslavia, many military homeless people came to Serbia's premises, not by their own will, but by their command, and those who came here did not have apartments. You have at the Military Academy young men who were born in the rooms of the Military Academy and went for a voluntary military service, so over 18 years have already been, and more in those rooms. But what I want to point out, these people who came from the former Yugoslav republics, they brought with them valuable assets in the form of military techniques. Serbia has not had to allocate large funds for the military budget for years, as it has withdrawn from the former Yugoslav spaces a groat of military techniques and technologies and most modern ones. So we pulled out of the former Yugoslav republic military technique worth more than seven billion US dollars. In that context, we haven't had to stand out for years to buy a new military technique, because we lived on those supplies. No matter what Serbia's military budget, the former SFRY, has set out somewhere between 32% and 35%. So, let's be honest, those people who came to these premises left their property to the former Yugoslav republics, and they have the right to priority in allocating apartments at special prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37113	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37114	Oh, that's the second topic now, my colleague Ljiljana Mihajlović, a colleague of Ljiljana Mihajlović, has been unable to resolve temporary and forced accommodation for 20 years, as an officer who left his property, i.e. had to flee from the Ustasha from Zagreb and therefore I won't talk about it. I am reporting for you, Mr Marinkovic, because the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, and above all by Article 27 and Article 161 you were obliged to explain after the presentation of Ms. Mihajlovic, that MPs have the opportunity and the right to submit amendments to this Rules of Procedure. She was so ironic, I think, wanting to humiliate someone, she said – instead of in that situation, you wrote in that case. First he wrote it and the amendment is Dubravka Bojic, who is a professor of literature and Russian. A man who is countless, I don't really know how many books, and you know it very well, Mr Marinkovic, translated it from Russian into Serbian, and it is normal that he will teach Zorana Mihajlovic, who often speaks with sentences into infinitative, which is also incorrect in Serbian. How will it be written in the law if it has not already been done in the legal and technical and stylish and second edition of its ministry. Secondly, she said, she counted, you have so many amendments to the SRS in which it is spoken – it is deleted. Well, it's wiped out because of the senselessness of the law. Although it writes - it is deleted, and it was not that sense, as Mr Marinkovic then, you interpret as the President of the Assembly, you read all the amendments, when the MPs of the SRS, in the law that should provide apartments to SB, insert expressions concerning education, health, culture, sports, etc. What difference does it make how this law will improve the development of health, culture and I don't know what and all that nonsense we have in 300 amendments to the SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37115	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, just to explain, Professor Bojic will have the opportunity to replicate and no problem explaining his position. Before I give him my word, in accordance with Article 104 of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37116	Article 27, Mr Marinkovic, is not the first time that SNS MPs have been demeaning themselves here and that the amendments we have submitted have been subdued. I have repeatedly tried to explain to other colleagues that the amendment is not only meant to be critically intensified on the bill, but to affirm and all the good that the Serbian government is doing, in all areas of social life. To those who don't understand what the building of apartments has to do with health care, with education, sports, culture, justice, to try to explain it one more time. There will be growth of the construction industry, there will be a growth of general employment, we will collect more tax revenues, there will be more money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, there will be more money in the budget of local self-government. The budget is funded by doctors, and educational workers and cultural workers, so that all SNS amendments are absolutely related to each other, and have ties to the basic intensity of this law, and that is not only to be solved, of course, is a priority, a residential issue of persons employed in the security system of the Republic of Serbia. We have already mentioned several times, this law will have multiple positive multipliers, economic effects in all areas of the economy in the Republic of Serbia and of this law all Serbian citizens, and those who are not military persons and who do not work in security services and who, after all, do not have the need to solve their own housing issue, because they have already solved it, and will certainly benefit, simply because the state will have more money, will have more money from local self-government. Anyone well-intentioned, I think he understands the meaning of the SNS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37117	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexander Martinovic: No. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37118	Mr. Marinkovic, you're certainly quite tired. There's something going on with your business today. Error after error. You violated Article 103, Section 8, and that was several times today, but right before I answered. The minister cannot comment this way on the amendments of the SRS MPs or any other political party. We don't have, and it's common knowledge, nothing against making amendments, and we say it more than once, but we're just explaining to the citizens of Serbia what the amendments mean. The government of the Republic of Serbia, and Zorana Mihajlovic was probably not at the government's session, may have been in our friendly Azerbaijan at the time, and she may have intended to apologize for insulting them, Azerbaijan and their companies because of the problems they were having at the construction of that part of Preljin – Cačak, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia said that she did not accept the amendments of the SNS Parliamentary Group because they do not even represent norm, but by structure they belong to the interpretation of the regulations, etc. So that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia said, and Zorana, as usual, is the government of the road, Zorana in the forest. He can't find a common language. Maybe one or two ministers and they're on the same wavelength, but soon that reconstruction will go away, so Zoran. Where Scott's gonna put her, we'll see, but in the government, he won't be left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37119	Thank you. You have the right to think whatever you want. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Do you wish, fellow Radeta, that the National Assembly declare itself in the day of the vote? (Faith Radeta: Yes) Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37120	Two things. Article 107. One, the government of the Republic of Serbia accepted two amendments submitted by SNS MPs, Mrs Katarina Rakic and Mr Vladimir Orlic. These are the fundamental amendments the government has accepted and thus the government has shown that the SNS amendments absolutely make sense. Two, what Mrs Radeta said, she reiterated what I said -- we affirm policy, good policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and our amendments absolutely agree with the basic concept of this bill, which is that, above all, the housing issue of members of the security forces is resolved, but also that, by adopting this law, it affects the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia, because there is no economic development of the Republic of Serbia if we do not fully raise our building industry and our construction operation. The bill stipulates that the state will participate in the construction of these apartments and that domestic construction companies will participate. It will benefit them from the one working in the buffer, to a colonel who has so far failed to resolve his living issue. So, the thing here is quite clear. This bill will benefit everyone. Through these amendments, we are trying to explain it to the citizens of Serbia, those who have been honoring the ministers here for days. As the minister appears, they say - e, but your colleague said something else. Are you listening to what they're saying? Some say - we support the bill, others say - the bill is no good, the third says - yes, but why not for doctors and professors, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37121	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexander Martinovic: No. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37122	He's wrong, mate. Of course, precisely the Rules of Procedure are set out in Articles 161 and 162. how should the amendment look, and what should the amendment contain, but we, Serbian radicals, how many times do we have to repeat? We are not for the people's MPs to travel in their work. Martinovic explains that the progressors are submitting amendments to praise the government, to praise ministers, to praise the president of the state, but allow us Serbian radicals to submit amendments to the government in order to contrive ministers to contrive the president of the Republic. What is good for them is bad for us, and worse for them, what is good for them is bad for the people. We're just distracting and talking about why such amendments are being submitted. That is, apart from what Martinovic said, which I can accept, but the fact is that this is how we can only talk about four members of one of the 20 laws that are on the agenda at this session and essentially people don't know what's being discussed here. In principle, there is no detail about the law. That's why there are amendments. That's why you're going to get a member. How can we do so when we apply this most terrible Rules of Procedure, indeed, which does not allow the MP to do his job and when we have, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, to one member as many amendments as we have. Of course, we do, too, because we want every member of the SRS to state the position of the party and, of course, that's spoken and broader than the proposed member, or member to whom the amendment has been submitted, but just let us at least in such poor conditions, the poor Rules of Procedure, have the same conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37123	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I'm in good faith now, I won't. Thanks for that. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. He doesn't seem to be in a good mood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37124	I am of good faith, Mr. Marinkovic, but I, as president of the parliamentary group, somehow have to defend my party, and I have to defend my minister for whom I voted. It's my job. When someone else is president of the parliamentary group, they'll do what I do. There's not much philosophy here. I was precise in counting, without amendments, for Serbian citizens to know, the SNS parliamentary group in the procedure is 2,100 amendments submitted by MPs from different opposition groups. So, SNS didn't tell anyone, as they say, that's a very interesting expression for me, it's taken time. We can't eat anyone's time. Everyone can spend as much time as the Rules of Procedure has, and everyone has so much time with the number of MPs and MPs of the opposition cannot make peace with the fact that they have few MPs and have little time, and that SNS MPs have more time because in the elections, led by Aleksandr Vukic, they won 56% of the votes of the people who went to the elections. One more thing to say, as a lawyer, though, I'm a stupid lawyer, I have big ears and I don't understand anything, but I do know for a fact that these amendments are technically incorrect and are not in line with the Rules of Procedure, so there is a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law that would reject them. He didn't do it. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, I am not involved in the work of the Government. The government has decided to accept those amendments they consider to improve the text of the bill. Some amendments were not accepted, but she did not say that these amendments were pointless. She made some other argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37125	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37126	Let me finish. And we will, with the amendment being submitted, continue, because, thank God, we have something to boast about both the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the work of the President of the Republic of Serbia. And at every session of the National Assembly, we will affirm through the amendments everything that is good for the citizens of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of Serbia, including Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37127	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Professor Boyich, you're up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37128	After so many calls to the Rules of Procedure, my replica was almost unthinked. But I wanted to tell Mrs. Mihajlovic that I was in the topic the whole time, talking about the law, and I wasn't out of the question in any way. And to you, Mr. Marinkovic, with delay, I must honour that you should not have allowed Mrs. Mihajlovic to bid on the results of the election of certain parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37129	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Sorry, counterpart Savić, Marijan Risticevic reported after the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37130	That's my fellow farmer's amendment. I wanted to wait for him and hear what the farmer had to say. My dilemma is – it's either in a pub or a sprayy vineyard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37131	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you may have noticed all these days that all the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party from their post said they had nothing in principle against the passing of one of these laws. We find a law like this necessary for our country. However, where did the problem arise today? The problem arises because Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic is not acting the way a minister should behave. At the very least, to say the least, she acts as though she is the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group. Although the head of the parliamentary group has a certain maneuvering space where he can say something that someone won't like, one minister doesn't. Mrs. Mihajlovic, listen well, the minister in literal translation means servant. You are a servant to the people and a servant to the Messengers of the people. But here, instead of focusing on the truth, you focus on your party's rating and strength. Rating is a variable category, today it's this big, tomorrow it's different. The goal of the caterpillar is not to keep growing and to reach the size of the python with its size, the goal of the caterpillar is to transform into a butterfly at a certain point. So you know that doesn't mean anything. As for the majority, even Christ was crucified by the decision of the majority. God is not with those who are most, God is with those who are right. Since I have a little time, I'd just like to say something about the amendment. You've had plenty of time before this law to do something about housing for security forces. I will remind you, as I come from Nis, that the low barracks "Bubanj", located in the wider centre of the town of Nis, is a devastated destination where literally as if a NATO bomb had fallen, and you know that a decision has been made to build a number of apartments for Serbia's army and you should have done something about it by now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37133	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37134	Since you told me to listen well, I listened carefully, so I say immediately, but first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, because I think it's my turn to know that the debate on amendments should actually be a constructive debate in which even with such a large number of amendments we will really be able to improve a bill, or make it better. But, let's say, the amendment you've given, I apologize, you've talked about other things, but the amendment that you've given says like this -- the text bill, meaning "Republic of Serbia", so the MP says it should be replaced by the word "Republic". And it's now an amendment that will essentially fix, probably, this bill. Do not be angry when I tell the citizens of Serbia that the amendments you make are, instead of "in that situation", to put "in that case", instead of, say, not you personally but one of your colleagues, instead of "can provide and finance", you say in the amendment "can provide and finance", or, say, in one of the following amendments: "they are not communally equipped", is replaced by the text: "they are "communally unarmed". So wait, no one's talking about the beauty of Serbian. He's the most beautiful and beautiful man in the world. But here we are talking constructively about a very important bill, because we want to solve the housing problems of members of the military, police, BIA, etc. So that's why I've been in the past and now I've said this is least constructive. Let's see if we really need to change something in this bill's proposal, because in your statement too, I apologize, I'll be brief, just one more sentence, you say everywhere -- we support the law, we have to work, and then in the amendments, among other things, you put a few of the most important members of the law that completely changes everything, you say -- they are deleted. So what do you support? Do you or do you not support the law? If you do not support it, then say it well at the beginning – we do not support the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37135	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37136	I have the right to a replica. Now I'm going to answer you. Why did we tolerate this number of amendments, first of all, to this first item of the agenda? Because in this congregation, thanks to this ruling majority, everything went wrong. This is my third term, I know how it used to be. Literally, we're forced to fight for our time so we can say something. But look at the other laws. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted amendments to all members of the law, of all these points of the agenda. And I, as I recall, looked somewhere, took part in some amendments myself. Somewhere around a dozen amendments to the SRS were adopted in a set of these laws, so you can't say that we've endured them just like that, just to have the opportunity to say something. Although, as this congregation does, it comes down to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37137	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Vladimir Orlic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37138	Thank you. Again, our parliamentary group must be on the wallpaper, right? There's nothing else to say, there are no more interesting and important topics, but to have a little fun with the mention of the SNS and our parliamentary group. Someone says, it went wrong here in this assembly because of us and says, because of us so terrible, terrible, as we already, I don't know, that someone has to fight for an opportunity to say something. The SRS parliamentary group has time to discuss 27 minutes and 23 seconds for the group. Right? And there's time for a 15-minute hearing for an authorised representative to discuss details. Right? This is now like any other, at any other session. Can this time be taken from your SNS? No one can. That's technically impossible. Can this time be reduced by someone from the SNS? No one can, it's technically impossible. This time is just your time. I thought it was too high for me to explain it to anyone. I thought every MP understood that. I guess I was wrong, so now I'm using my time and good will to explain it a little bit. This time, honourable Members of the people, you can use it whenever you want. Report to any amendment, under this law we're discussing now, or under the next law, or by the one we're going to read as the last in line at this session, by any amendment, to your own or anyone else, you can do this time that I've now told you to use. It can't be threatened by anyone. The other thing is, and the main problem here, which I see is that some of them don't even have the time they have, and it's how much it amounts, now I've read it, they don't know what to do. In that situation when it happens, and it happens to some here chronically, they can always blame themselves, and our MP group, with all due respect, leave it alone, your position won't be better and it won't make your dissatisfaction smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37139	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37140	Marinkovic, you better give me the right to harm the Rules of Procedure with a late reaction, because it's just a chance for me to teach this former colleague, who answered and explain something, and thus to say that the dignity of the Assembly has been violated by Mrs. Minister. I must remind you, Mr. Marinkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37141	Just name a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37142	Article 107, violated dignity, if I have to say a member, is not a problem. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Mr. Marinkovic, this is about replacing the thesis and I have to explain to Mrs. Mihajlovic, because she was not in a position to understand what a colleague of Radeta was saying or any of us. The democratic fundamental right and the principle of freedom of speech, expression, representative of the people, who is sovereign, means that part of his right people has passed on to any of us, to speak about the subject in the way he can, the way he wants it and to point out the government's mistakes is the democratic right of every SRS MP. Instead of being ashamed of the fact that there has been discrimination against MPs who have fewer MPs, unlike periods, because the Assembly has not been invented since 2016... This is my seventh parliamentary term. counterpart Filip Stojanovic, I think, is here for the eighth or ninth time, as well as Petar Jojic. Col. Marinkovic, the essence is that MPs to this Rules of Procedure who adopted this yellow company, as counterpart Orlic likes to say, have abolished the right for MPs to have the same opportunity to express themselves in the Assembly. Until this Rules of Procedure was adopted, every MP could speak 10 minutes per amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37143	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37144	Please, there have been very rare situations where 20 and 30 points that have nothing to do with a single debate and therefore the amendments of the SRS and they are fundamentally, linguistically, and those that give the opportunity to speak for the minister to know why such amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37145	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37146	I hope in the spirit of goodwill and constructive relations, the shortest indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure today. Member of the 103rd, Mr. Chairman. I think that, since this member normally speaks of the abuse of the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, you should intervene in this regard, and when you intervene fully well-intentioned in the spirit of collegiate relations and constructive discussions, you merely point to a small matter of Mrs Jovanovic. I said it, and I think it's just further confirmation. It's not a problem that she doesn't have any extra time, for example, another 10 minutes per amendment. The main problem is that this time she doesn't use, she can't take advantage. That's the essence of my note, first of all, and that time they have established and guaranteed, it still stands. My proposal was well-intentioned and correct, and that's to think about the way they use that time. Otherwise, if they were given an extra 10 minutes per amendment, I wouldn't have any problem with it, but they would have an even bigger problem for the reasons I've cited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37147	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37148	In these 27 minutes of the SRS parliamentary group and in 15 minutes for the authorised representative, and how we can talk about various abuses, that, although you inherited such a situation from the failed yellow company, all their personnel, where you could, picked up and put in your ranks, so you intend to choose Goran Vesic, who was DOS and DS, as mayor of Belgrade. So, not only that, but with a series of examples of very professional arguments, we're telling you that you're getting involved in having this kind of support for the people right now. It is not disputed how much anyone won in the Belgrade elections, but let's go to elections without Alexander Vukic's name on that list. Please, Mr. Orlic, let it be called the list of SNS - Vladimir Orlic, so let's see how many votes you get. That's really pointless. You are now in a situation, as deputy chief, Martinovic came out, to jump into contact with him according to the Rules of Procedure, with no connection, no reason, anything caused to have a minute today and to appear in direct transmission. I was very well understood by Mr Marinkovic, and in the end I think Zorana Mihajlovic understood it. So the SRS has a view of this law. We think it was necessary to pass a law like this. We also believe that, when you mentioned the House Bill, I was saying yesterday, there was a colleague Vulin here, that it was a mistake to abolish many of the provisions of the Law on Public Housing and that this is exactly the yellow company, which was part of Vesic, Mladjan Dinkic participated, stole the housing fund and from that fund for the most vulnerable, a total of 17 years, could solve the housing issue for the most endangered categories of security service.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37149	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37150	I'm going to say 109 now, although during the last question you referred to Mrs. Jovanovic, do you know what your question is, did she even say a member to whom she called? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. Is it? Something I'm not sure it is. To resolve the ongoing dilemma, why am I reporting now? I thought it was clear, but if I had to, I'd explain it further. I'm calling because I care about my colleagues. I'm reporting to help, among other things, you, Mrs. Jovanovic. I'm protecting you from the awkward situation of having, if by some miracle, a lot more time to argue with which you don't know what you're going to do, because you can't even deal with what you're having right now. I called to protect you. Now I've contacted you again for the same reason, to protect you. Namely, the subject, the titles of the election lists, I don't think it suits you at all. I wanted to give you good reason to know, to distract you. We are certainly proud that the electoral list of our party bears the name Alexander Vukic. Don't worry about it at all. We are very proud and with the result that we have achieved in the elections we have not failed the trust of our party's leader, the president of the state of Alexander Vukic. But it doesn't suit you as a subject. Why? There's always that question about parallel. Do not return to the matter now, and what you have done, putting your leader on every poster. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: We are proud. I believe you're proud of it, but I'm not sure he's proud of you and the result you've given him. That 2% I don't think is a happy thing, nor am I convinced he's happy right now. Please, take good care of what we're talking about, and as far as we're concerned, always consider it, I'm giving you a hard promise, it'll be just a constructive relationship, and it'll be good wishes and good intentions, and we'll always protect you from the danger of harming yourself, as you're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37151	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Colleginica Jovanovic, I really ask you to give my colleague Despotovic a chance, because if we continue this way, we will come to the local elections in Prijepolje. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37152	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I am taking the opportunity and presence of Mrs. Mihajlovic, just some questions and answers, if possible. Of course, you'll say it's not in line with the amendment, but I choose a way to explain it. I'd like you to listen to me and give some answers. Of course, the topic of the agenda is, but we haven't been able to ask you, as regards the restructuring of the "Serb Railway" and the dismissal of 6,000 employees for the period 2016/17 years. Is the company successfully reorganised in this way and how it works today, since fired professionals and workers are needed for safe and smooth traffic? How do you explain your statement that none of the workers will leave without a program and that no one will be thrown out on the street? Unfortunately, with 200 euros per year, say, 10 years, if a man worked on the railway, 2,000 euros. How can he start a job or a 2,000-euro business? Did you know how and how the lists of firing these workers were made? Unfortunately, but it is so that most of these lists, I don't think of these 6,000, in one day 53 people are out of work. That usually these people from Prijepolje and Priboj, who were in the merciless leadership of Užica and Požega, and in particular to stress these occult actions were involved by 27 union leaders. How do you explain the fact that the new Stadler furniture, I think they're called Stadler trains, go only to Užica, and further to Priboj and Prepolje of old furniture, oronulas and depletions. (President: Thank you. Just one more minute. Please. (President: I can't for a minute. The Serbian Radical Party is down. I can't do this anymore. ) Please, 10 seconds, here. (President: here are 10 seconds. ) They feel that these people who travel to Priboj and Prepolje are being discriminated against. One more fact... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37153	I've given you enough. I can't. We have to abide by some rules. Two minutes and 20 seconds. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here's a colleague of LJubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37154	Thank you. Serbian Radical Party MPs have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on special conditions for the realisation of the housing project for members of the security forces, under which the Jablani County is unwarranted by not investing and placed in an inappropriate position, in view of the aspiration of foreign factors towards the part of the municipality of Medvedje. You shouldn't have left out the Apple County for the realization of this project. As for Article 4 of this proposal, the law refers to the provision of financial resources, we have proposed, by amendment, to amend the position 6 relating to sites which are not publicly equipped. We believe that if the proposer accepts this amendment in a better and more precise way, the intended term will be defined. By the way, Section 6 defines that for locations which are not publicly equipped or partly equipped, construction of a missing infrastructure, in the function of a residential complex, the housing complex is provided and financed by a unit of local self-government on which a housing complex is built. The promoter stated that the right 1,578 apartments were estimated to have the necessary funds of 64.4m euros without VAT and that the cost of municipal equipment was included in this amount, and that the exact amount would be determined later after the construction of the project for the building permit. The Serbian Radical Party is concerned that a phase of the project could happen and then stop. This fear is reflected in the experience of this authority, when it comes to the promise of building apartments in favour of young couples and similar experiences, where much has ended only on promises and where Minister Zorana Mihajlovic promised to realise this project, and we have witnessed promises and realization made. I hope he'll... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37155	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović, I hope you understand me and ask everyone else to be within these two minutes. I know it's hard, but we have to. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 4. The bill was prescribed a way of providing financial resources for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. We MPs of the SRS have submitted several amendments to this bill because we believe it was necessary to specify certain concepts. This law, or bill of law, has left many questions that have been left without adequate answers. Yesterday we asked several questions to Minister Vulina, but we didn't get the answers, so I would take the opportunity of Minister Mihajlovic to ask the question. This is – what happens to members of the Army who have been denied 6% of the gross salary for the housing fund, does this somehow affect the price of buying this new cheap apartment, because the large funds that they have allocated for years have not received? Will there be any downsizing on buying this apartment? Then, what happens to Diposa apartments, e.g. In the street of Pera Todorovic on Ban’s Hill, where does 54 families who actually live there live for 25 years? These are families that have escaped from Croatia, which were participants in the country's wars. Now they've been denied the right to buy those apartments. So I'm curious about what's going on with those apartments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37157	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here's a colleague of Stojanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37158	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. A bill relating to building apartments for members of security forces. Like the previous amendment, where I have expressed concern about whether the apartments are really going to be allocated to those who need them most, here I express another kind of concern, which guarantees that the most favourable locations, as we have seen from the discussion of the MPs, are going to be built in other cities, and not in the ones proposed by the Government. On the other hand, where the guarantee that those performers who are really able to build apartments under the most favourable conditions will be selected. We all know how tenders are explored and how to choose the most favourable bidder in these tenders. So the idea as an idea is good, but there are a lot of open questions that can negatively affect the realization of such a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37159	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with all due respect to all those who have a certain opinion on how parliamentary life is being led in the Republic of Serbia, in this Assembly, this distinguished home, it is high time that such a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly were changed. The rules change when circumstances change. There's been a change of circumstances, and it's high time for this conjuring Rules of Procedure to change. The work of Parliament is ambiguous. The following way should be explained, 20 items of the agenda, 20 laws, are submitted 2000 amendments, so how now explain to the expert public, how to explain to voters that MPs are discussing only four members of a law on the agenda. This has made up the work of this congregation, and that is why there are numerous abuses or not knowledge and ignorance of the Rules of Procedure. What I want to say in relation to the proposed law, I am afraid, and I suggest that there will be a number of problems unless they prevent appropriate important and good contracts with contractors in advance. There will be a number of problems and crime. A good contract should prevent the construction mafia and contractors and subcontractors from coming to deal with crime so that the state that proposed this bill in a situation to address problems and shortcomings to the detriment of the Republic of Serbia's budget comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37161	Thank you. Thanks for respecting the weather. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the alarming word in the title of this law is also a key word – realisation and because it is at the head of the ministry responsible for building these apartments, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who is known for making easy promises that are not being fulfilled. The minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is very easy to set deadlines that are not realized, which is also the case with these cheap apartments. So last year she announced the start of construction for March of this year. Since the law is only now in the congregation procedure, it is obvious that the deadline it has set is not respected. The question is, how does Minister Mihajlovic come to these deadlines? Does his work coordinate with the Serbian government? Do the other ministers have any knowledge of her work or perhaps the Prime Minister? And who's the one the minister consults? These arbitrary deadlines also call into question the credibility of the entire government. There are numerous examples of lightly spoken promises. In February, the minister claimed that the law would enter the assembly procedure in March, and that the conditions for the contractors were also prepared and that construction in several cities, in Vranj, could be expected to begin in late March. Today is May 23rd, and every comment is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37163	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic and Katarina Rakic, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Dr. Vladimir Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and this amendment, the amendment to Article 4, which has adopted the government, underlines the common position that we share as the SNS parliamentary group and the Serbian government. The attitude that is to say that projects like this that we introduce by this bill make a significant contribution to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, their importance and their good implications outweigh the basic issue of addressing the housing needs of security forces. It's true, they solve that question, but they solve a lot of others. In today's debate, which is precisely from those who are constantly complaining that they've been denied something, that they can't say something, that's been turned pretty much into a bunch of things where everything and everything has been talked about, and yet I've tried to locate what's positive and good. And I am a positive and well-recognizable person, and I consider those remarks that go in the direction of voting for this bill and which today were the most criticised and present minister, and the Serbian Government, and us as a parliamentary group. That's good. I express my confidence in this opportunity that everyone else will do the same. I thank the proposing representative for adopting this amendment and for sharing this good vision of the country's common development and for having good results that we can praise, the results achieved in practice. But what he showed with this gesture was that of the on-call critics of everything and everything, but also of what kind of Kesics, today's, various free artists, all of whom love to comment on our MP group and our amendments, to belittled by our proposals, to show them who actually turned out to be funny in the whole story. At the very end, but not least, I thank all who will vote in favour of this bill and because it will also vote in favour of our amendment that has become an integral part of the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37165	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37166	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of the Law for the sake of citizens watching the transfer. Let us reiterate that Article 4 refers in a way that provides financial resources, where it is clearly defined that the main investor is the Republic of Serbia, or the Government, with, of course, the assistance and units of local self-government regarding relevant planning and urban and technical documents. All my colleagues so far and surely will after me take everything out, and we have detailed the benefits and benefits of this law, all in order to strengthen national security and that this is one step in one problem, which is a housing building that the previous three decades of government has not even tried to resolve. I now want to look back, because three days, this is the third day, repeats the same scenario, two MPs of opposition parties who have the support at the level of a statistical error, where three days ago, we commented on it, are false about what Minister Mihajlovic said yesterday, well, when Minister Stefanovic was said otherwise, when Vulin was the same. For three days, they have been repeating the truths that the ministers have spoken differently, and in the stenographic notes that is clearly a hardening thing. But they do, and they tell the truth that the television viewers who watch are in some doubt. So, the scenario that speaks of them, because it's not easy to tell lies for three days. In voting day, of course, we will support this law, because it is the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37167	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37168	I thank the chairman. Honored Minister with Associates, Honored Fellows and Fellow Members, Amendment to Article 4. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for security forces aims to further specify the proposed law. In order to build 1,578 apartments, as planned to be built in the first phase, 64.35m euros should be invested. It's planned to be flats of 32 m2 for garages up to 92 m2 for four-bedroom apartments. In order for the state to invest this money, it is necessary for our economy to work and for our GDP to be constantly on the rise. If we look at the results in the first trimester this year, everything tells us that we are on a good path, because GDP has reached 4.5%. The first facilities in the first phase will be built in Nis, Kragujevac, Kralje, Vranja, Belgrade and Novi Sad. We see from this that these apartments were distributed throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The price for these apartments is up to 500 euros per square metre, which is more than a favourable price regardless of the location. The comments we could hear are that there's nothing from the apartments for the security services. However, the SNS showed in the previous period that it was fulfilling its promises. That's why I call on all my colleagues to support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37169	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37170	I thank the chairman. Madam Prime Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, MPs, regardless of the opposition's various objections, the number of registered members of the security services for the purchase of apartments under favourable conditions, which regulates the law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the apartment, says otherwise. Almost 20,000 members have been reported. For decades, it has not been taken into account the housing of security personnel, and so many have been reported today. It's not about social housing, as the opposition calls it, but it's about improving and stimulating security personnel to do their job even better. Our Government's decision to build these apartments, in addition to the housing of security officers, also achieves the following economic goals such as GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, growth of VAT revenues on various grounds, increasing income from property taxes, cutting the time needed to complete administrative procedures, reducing administrative burdens and many other objectives and effects that will come after the completion of apartment construction. Accordingly, I call on all my colleagues to support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37171	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37172	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to propose an amendment in Article 4. The bill, with special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. I add the 11th position, which reads: "Realising housing projects provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government." The government of the Republic of Serbia has the responsibility of taxpayers to build apartments for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Interior, the Security-Informative Agency, the Administration for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, and having in mind the importance and responsibility of the work people are dealing with, their importance and security for the whole country, is only one way to improve their material position. Building apartments under favourable conditions is the way the state has been trying to address the housing needs of employees of security forces that have failed to resolve its permanent housing issue for decades. Realisation of this project strengthens security forces, strengthens GDP, develops and employs domestic construction enterprises, businesses dealing with the production of building materials, creates a prerequisite for creating new jobs, which directly affects local self-government, for starters, in areas where these apartments are built and envisions the first realisation of these projects. Units of local self-government after the implementation of these projects, i.e. After the completion of all or built apartments, they will be able to collect taxes and thus enhance their natural growth and development. This is one of the better laws that came during the call, and I fully support it, and I ask my colleagues, friends, MPs to vote for this bill in the day of voting, of course, if they have the strength and the time, and for my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37173	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37174	I would like to thank you, Mr Marinkovic, the honourable minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Article 4 The bill is signed in a way that provides financial resources for the implementation of the project, the creation of missing planning and urban and technical documents, the production of technical documentation, means of expropriation, the way and time of determining the amount of funds. This way of work, the Republic of Serbia is represented as a serious state that cares for security forces, which is the result of responsible household policy, where important plans, ideas, programmes and the fight for the benefit of citizens, rather than robbing the state register, as it was in the previous period. In these extremely complex time periods full of challenges, when any mistake can undo all the successes that have been achieved in the past six years, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is leading a balanced compromise policy and dialogue on the development of good neighbourly relations and, in such a way, representing Serbia's interests, building our position in the world, maintaining and leading us forward on the European path, safeguarding the integrity and integrity of the state and maintaining security. Such policymaking paves the way for numerous investors from around the world to invest in Serbia, as well as strengthening private sector investment, larger exports, and stronger Serbia's economic integration with the surrounding countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37175	Thank you, colleague Lukic. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37176	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 4 speaks about how financial resources are provided, from which we conclude that the Republic of Serbia will allocate funds to develop technical documentation for the construction of municipal infrastructure, and what is most important is funds that will single out municipalities and cities that will be ready to do so, in which apartments will be built. These are the funds relating to the planning and urban and technical documents. At present, six cities are able to enter the first phase of the project, including the city of Nis, where 188 apartments will be built. By adopting this proposal, we will adopt a lex specialis, a law which, by its legal nature, will have more power than the laws governing general issues. In order to avoid confusion, according to our Constitution, it is possible to pass such a law that will support, i.e. to enable the implementation of the project and to edit it in a different way than the laws that fall under the general rules. Due to the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces, as well as the potential difficulties that may arise, a special law has been adopted that will lead to a successful implementation of the project. At the end of 2017, the Serbian government concluded on the creation of a Commission to prepare a proposal for a project to build apartments for security forces. That's when the need for this law was expressed. I welcome the government's intention that a problem that has not been resolved permanently for decades now, as members of the security forces deserve it. This looks at the seriousness with which the government of the Republic of Serbia approaches resolving issues of crucial importance for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37177	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37178	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, we have before us a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces. I stand it out as very important and important, as a Lex special, because it allows for the purchase of apartments at subsidized prices. The president wanted and designed a project to help all members of the security structure make life easier for employees in these sectors, as they have not settled their housing issues for decades. They could have been many before him, but they didn't think of achieving these programs to help the security forces. Their personal interests, personal pockets, and wealth were more important to them, so they bought apartments for themselves and family members only. Building apartments for security forces is one of the key measures and priorities for improving the material position of those who risk the most to make everyone in Serbia feel safe. Therefore, construction of such apartments will begin through the towns of Serbia, Nis, Vranj, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Novi Sad. We know how much our president is working and investing in the peace and stability policy he is leading along with the Government and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, taking care of citizens and people in these areas, building apartments, adapting, building houses, helping young married couples and social cases that need such assistance in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. More than a thousand apartments have been allocated over the last five years, and one of the major projects the government is building is the Sun Valley project, which will allow the return of 1,500 people who had to leave their hearths. We build and work all over the country because we create a society that believes in itself and our goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37179	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Vladimir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37180	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4 to add Article 11, which refers to the implementation of the housing project. What we all know very well is the risk of work and the obligations our security sector faces every day. I would like to point out that it is a very good proposal for the government to come out in this way to meet the employees of these structures. If we take into account the government until 2012, where we had situations only empty promises, I believe this government is very determined and responsible for all citizens working in the security sector, which is the Ministry of the Interior, which is the Ministry of Defence. I think the draft law provides for the government of the Republic of Serbia to take care of all citizens, especially in the security sector. I believe that this bill should be supported, for the reason that this bill will solve the situation and the problems of employees in these sectors. I call on all of you in the voting day to support the proposed law and to support all amendments. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37181	Thank you, colleague Petkovic. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37182	The Honorable Chairman, the Minister of Associates, my amendment refers to a member of the 4th Special Law. This law sets out what obligations the units of local self-government have, which the Republic of Serbia has to do with. Technical documentation, lobbys and analyses will be financed by the Republic of Serbia. The funds needed to build municipal infrastructure are provided by local self-government. Expropriation, which is in the function of a residential complex or for the construction of municipal and other infrastructure facilities, will be provided by the Republic of Serbia. We have been listening to objections to this special law from opposition colleagues these days, and one of them was also worth 500 euros. I have to remind my colleagues that in the Duke Stepe settlement, the apartments they built were from 980 euros to 1300 euros, so they don't have to honor us, and they left us with a dozen other problems that follow that village. The fiscal consolidation created conditions for larger investment investments, such as this. Today, the budget of the Republic of Serbia can withstand this project and all the following. In 2012, the state was facing bankruptcy, but in years of consolidation, there was a solution to the accumulated problems, so this project and this law are also part of this policy, a policy which is successfully run by the government and our President, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37183	The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Igor Bečić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37184	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, continues with this project that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been systematically resolving issues that no one has been dealing with for too long. I ask, is this activity taken to achieve the objectives of national security policy? I'll answer, it is. Is national security the most important to a country? Yes, it is. So what's the problem with some colleagues across the street? The problem is, they don't fit the system. Imagine saying – you are advocating forces with this project, under force means security forces. That is what those who have completely demoted the same force say, although the force should defend and protect the state of Serbia. And they were courting their foreign bosses. If we're going to be realistic, that makes sense. The people brought us to power, and they did not. We cannot remain silent about their impatience to our own people, and we will not tolerate these manipulations. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, and you in the government, and we from the SNS parliamentary group, will continue to solve our citizens' problems and protect our country's interests. Our goals are clear, President Vukic defined them, we will work on economic development, and the works speak more than a thousand words. Once again, the Bor municipality is ready to take part in this project, we have a location, so we can join the housing project at any moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37185	Thank you, colleague. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nenad Mitrovica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37186	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of security forces. I mean, it's a good thing we're passing one of these laws that provides for the resolution of housing needs of security forces, because it hasn't worked on this issue in decades. All praise the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic for his promise to address the housing needs of security forces. For the sake of faster and more efficient implementation of this project, it was necessary to pass a special law that would regulate the conditions, criteria, the way and the procedure for the implementation of this project. In addition, a list of materials to be used for building residential buildings will be included in the implementation of this project, to the greatest extent domestic production. The first-stage bill envisions the construction of 190 apartments in Vranj and further evidence that the Serbian government is paying attention to southern Serbia, as we have a large number of security forces engaged in the land's security zone and the military base in southern Bujanovac, without a settled housing issue. When I talk about southern Serbia, and I cannot mention the reconstruction of the Vranjska Banja railway line – Vranje – Ristovac – Bucharest, about 20km in length, where about $15m was invested. I hope that in the next few months we will complete the highway section on Corridor 10 from Grdelica to Vladic's Han and from the Serbian House to Levosoje, which will certainly contribute to the accelerated development of this part of Serbia. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37187	Thank you. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Stanislava Janosevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37188	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what definitely justifies our commitment to work, is that today we are in the third day of the debate in particular, working longer than otherwise prescribed working time and everything in the desire and hope to pass a law that will allow for the realisation of the apartment building project for persons from the security sector. Someone said yesterday that it was not applicable and that this law would not include persons who were not retired and it was completely incorrect. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you don't read, they don't know how to read or want to deceive the public. So, in Article 1 of this law, it decidently and unequivocally writes the following – as well as for the former members of the security forces who have obtained the pension right in one of these state bodies. So beyond this remark, which is certainly incorrect and unfounded, other suggestions that are meaningful were not even there. I'm sure, dear Minister, that you and your colleagues and your co-workers working on making this bill are pleased with what kind of debate this is going on. Thank you for making it possible for us to be the ones to adopt this law and enable it to be further realized and we are you, or the SNS has helped the security guards and stopped their agony, because it will finally have a roof over its head. Of course it will make us more stable and safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37189	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37190	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable minister of co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, irresponsibility and lack of will to address the life issue of thousands of unemployed in the security sector is the criminal behaviour of all previous ruling furniture which, unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia have given power to. No one has ever taken this difficult job before, that, above all, soldiers, cops, BIA members, people who do hard and responsible work for our country, which is why we can all feel safe to solve this essential problem in an acceptable way. Although I expected the consensus of all parliamentary parties on the proposed law, representatives of individual opposition parties succeeded in their destruction to point out unfounded and unfounded objections to this issue. One of these remarks is why it did not go into the realisation of this project before, forgetting that they had left a wasteland in public finances which required fiscal consolidation measures and the results were created and conditions for a major state-owned housing project. The second remark referred to the privileged position of security forces in accessing housing, demanding that the same status must have employees in education, health care, culture. In this regard, I would point out that the primary objective of every housing policy is that the entire population can provide apartments of appropriate size and equipment in a functional environment and at reasonable prices with the most rational view of support. Considering that this project is of importance for the national security of the Republic has rightly begun with the state housing in this sector. I am sure that this is just the beginning of a good idea that will be applied in the next period with the positive effects of this project to other categories of population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37191	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37192	The esteemed vice-presidents of the government with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs will certainly ensure that investment in housing provides for the development of the Republic of Serbia and this project will boost economic growth and development. The proposed solutions in this law will have a direct effect on companies, entrepreneurs, state bodies of the Republic of Serbia, AP authorities, local self-government units, a number of other interested parties. Security forces will be affected so that everyone under equal conditions will be able to resolve their own housing needs. The Republic of Serbia will be affected in a way that will intensify housing, which will activate other economic activities, which are directly related to the construction sector, on local self-government on whose territory these apartments will be built. It will affect their income from the property tax when the apartments are built. Realisation of the project will affect GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, as the provision of this law sets out the obligation of domestic business operators to participate. The Serbian Progressive Party will be pleased to support the bill in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37193	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37194	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is heading towards support for the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm proposing to be in Article 4. The bill adds the 11th position -- the realisation of the housing project provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on social equality. What is important is that Serbian citizens know that building cheap apartments for security forces starts in August and that the price per square metre will not exceed 500 euros. It will first be built in six cities: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kraljevo, Kragujevac, Nis and Vranje. I have to point out my special satisfaction that with the construction of cheap apartments, it will start in southern Serbia, because the south of Serbia certainly deserves it, given that for years and I can say freely and for decades back it has been neglected. This is exactly how social equality will be achieved, so this amendment of mine is going in that direction. As far as the town of Leskovci is concerned, there is a need to build cheap apartments for members of security structures. According to data I came to among members of the Ministry of Defence and the Army in the territory of the town of Leskovci, there are 128 members without a settled housing issue and 53 persons with inadequate housing facilities. So 181 is a member of a security force interested in buying an apartment under more favourable conditions. With a member of the MUP, 373 people are interested, and 149 of them are without a settled housing issue, and what is most important is that the town of Leskovac owns a ready location that is fully communally equipped, so I sincerely hope that the town of Leskovac will be the seventh city in which it will start building cheap apartments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37195	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37196	You're absolutely right. Leskovac will be next, 277 apartments will be built there as well as in Sombor, Zrenjanin, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37197	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37198	I thank the chairman. Honored Deputy Prime Minister, Article 4. The draft law under special conditions for the implementation of the project and the construction of apartments for members of security forces is defined as the way in which financial resources are provided. The funds for the creation of missing, planned and urban and technical documents can provide a unit of local self-government on whose territory the project is implemented, and in line with the possibilities and dynamics of the planning of funds in the budget of local self-government units and with the authority of local self-government units to adopt missing, planning and urban and technical documents. Resources for the production of technical documentation, as well as all other accompanying, necessary technical elaborates and analysis, as well as funds for building housing buildings for collective housing and building of municipal and other infrastructures within the housing complex is funded and provided by the Republic of Serbia. In line with this amendment, the way in which funds are provided is further defined, as the realisation of the housing project ensures the growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37199	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Excuse me, colleague Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37200	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the respected Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, is quite accurate your finding that the Serbian government is resolving a residential security force issue that has not been resolved for 30 years. It is true that during the period since the fall of the former Yugoslavia, almost no larger parentheses have been built, a residential building in Serbia for members of security forces, and only the apartments that were built or whose construction was started during the previous period and whose degree of construction was already higher. During the new yellow company, several construction sites for members of the Army were closed, although they were in the advanced construction phase. All we can think of is that famous construction site in the King on a war property. A project like this has never been launched in Serbia before. Never before has a single government shown such a degree of concern for certain layers of society, which in some sense really need help. Aid in resolving the housing issue is really necessary and necessary for a significant part of the Serbian and Ministry of Defence members, the Ministry of Interior, the BIA, the Criminal Sanctions Administration, as well as for pensioners from those state authorities. No one has ever tried before, and this government has managed to launch a project to build as many as 5,203 apartments from which 1,578 apartments will be built in August in several cities in Serbia by 2020. Imagine, it's a solution and a rescue for 1,578 families of security forces. But building these apartments will not only solve a problem that no one has wanted to deal with for nearly 30 years, but will also boost construction growth and ensure employment growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37201	Thank you, colleague Djokic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Minister Mihajlovic with his associates, the Nis track – Presevo - the state border 400 plus 500, a one-ring, 157km long, is part of the Van European corridor 10. Along with the master road Nis – Presevo, it is located in the valley of the river South Morava and passes through the Grdelička gorge. In the framework of the modernisation programme, Serbia's railway line a.d. planned to reconstruct the Niš railway line – Presevo – the state border, the objective of modernising, raising the level of safety and quality of transport service. With the modernisation of the Nis – Presevo – state border, it started in 2016 and on the Bujanovac-Bukarevac section, in length of 13,759 metres, 14.03.2017. Then there is the reconstruction of two more shares and Ristovac – Vranjska Banja and Vinarci – Djordjevo, and the works started in October 2016. The total length of the repair line Nis – Presevo – state border is 46,497 meters on the mentioned section. According to the schedule booklet, for the order of driving in 2017 and 2018, the maximum permitted speed on the Nis – Presevo – state border is 100 kilometers per hour and at least 30 kilometers per hour. In order to make better use of and exploit the remounted shares, it is necessary to fully use the Leskovac track – Gjorgje’s road crossing to provide half-defines or dams and turn on the electrical-reling insurance system, to raise speed to 100 kilometers per hour, because now because of the triangle of transparency it is reduced 30 kilometers per hour from Leskovec. Also, on the Bujanovac-Bukarevac section, in order to exploit the remounted section of the railway, road crossings need to be included in the "Simens" system's electro-reling security system, providing dams or semi-defines, as those road crossings cannot support a speed of 100 km per hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37203	Thank you, colleague Bogatinović. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37204	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, will be built in Belgrade by 400 apartments. A location has been provided for security forces in the township of Palilula, Ovca Banja, and I am really looking forward to throwing the first shovel in August this year. The development of an idea solution to the housing complex is under way and plans for building apartments for members of security forces, as more than 30,000 security forces have not resolved the housing issue. Our idea is to fix the standard of living to security forces, all those cops, soldiers, prison guards, members of the BIA. Finally, I would like to say that the SNS parliamentary group will indeed support this good legal solution and that the government has defined 64m euros. You delivered us really good and quality material and I thank you for that. We have a chance to see what the bathroom looks like, the living room, in that model apartment. So this is really a real project, a good project, like all the good projects that we do in the city of Belgrade and across Serbia today, from modernising the Belgrade railway node, the new lines that we will have for "Beo-voz", as well as all those other capital projects like "Metro" in Belgrade and like numerous development projects. I really believe in this solution and thank you for having the opportunity to discuss it today. I hope our officers, our soldiers, our prison guards get into the apartments they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37205	National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Veroljub Matic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Zoran Dragisic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic, to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here's a colleague of Jevtić's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37206	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, the Honored People's MPs, for the proposed legislative solution, I submit an amendment further defined by Article 4. The bill, by adding Article 11, which specifies the link and impact of the realisation of the housing project on the even development of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to commend the courage of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the rest of the ministries for dealing with the problem that has been burdening employees in the security services of the Republic of Serbia for years. The passing of this law that allows for the implementation of a housing project for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia creates a basis for resolving the housing issue of employees in the military of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the BIA and the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions. In addition, domestic construction companies will be engaged in the implementation of this project. At the same time, one of the positive effects of the adoption of this law is the imminent increase in credit activity within the banking sector, as expectations are that the largest number of security forces will realise housing purchases through credit debt. A large number of domestic business entities are expected to be formed, their association in a consortium or self-representation, in order to realise this project, and thus more market competition. All of this forward will certainly contribute to the even development of the whole country, in all areas of social life, and the very purpose of this amendment is to support the idea of the overall even development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37207	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJibuška Lakatoš was submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has LJibuška Lakatoš, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37208	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, members of the Security Service who are doing one responsible and honorable job, which makes us all feel safe, has been put in a situation that is not being taken care of. It is this law that we are discussing and which, hopefully, will support all my colleagues, gives the possibility of living care of members of the Serbian Army, the MUP, the BIA and those who have acquired the right to retire in one of the state authorities mentioned. Realising this project of building apartments not only will improve the standard of living for the security service, many of our workers, many construction companies and other industries will be employed. The project creates conditions for Serbia's even faster social, economic and overall development. The Republic of Serbia invests in education in order to educate soldiers, officers, and these apartments, under favourable conditions, contribute to ensuring that employees in those state bodies are provided with housing, remain in the profession for which the state has trained them, and continue to perform their duties impeccably. Construction starts in six cities, which is the first stage of this project. For some of the next phase, my municipality, the municipality of Stara Pazova, is also interested, which has launched an initiative to gain the status of the city, which is one of the most developed municipalities in Serbia. The municipality managed by SNS is ready to provide location and equipment for building land and, in my knowledge, there are a large number of interested people who would thus resolve their housing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37209	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people has received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37210	Thank you. Dear President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces deserves unreserved support, above all, because it systematically solves the decade-long problem of unresolved housing needs of employees in services of particular importance for the security and future of our country. This law will significantly contribute to GDP growth in the area of construction, domestic construction industry employment and employment growth, VAT revenues on various grounds and, very important for the local self-government budget, the increase in income from property taxes. Around the buildings will open shops, infirmarys, pharmacies that everyone can use. The proposal is based on the idea and goes towards achieving the primary objective of SNS policy, the overall development of our country and its local self-government, and thus the development of health centres. This is precisely why I tabled the amendment and suggested that Article 4 add to Article 11, which reads: "The adoption of the law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement and development of health centres in Serbia." We have come from the SNS, taking responsibility over them from the hands of irresponsible, arrogant and rude leaders of the previous regime, who were until 2012, and in Vojvodina until 2016 we thought only of ourselves, our bank accounts, personal benefit and numerous privileges, not taking care of anything, not even of the needs of members of security forces, starting with equipment, weapons, modern fighting systems, up to their housing needs as a life issue for each individual. This is a project that will serve as an example of how apartments can be built at more than affordable prices...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37211	Thank you, Dr. Granny. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37212	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on Article 4. The bill, I have tabled an amendment adding attitude 11 and it is said that the realisation of the housing project ensures the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to tax liability. I would point out once again that the project of mass housing for security forces has a number of end-of-life positive effects, which will be manifested phasely, just as they will end up in the construction and surrender phase for the use of apartments by their users, through increased employment, VAT revenues, on various grounds to the ultimate goal and most important resolution of housing issues of security forces. It is very important to point out once again that the security forces that will be given to come to apartments through business banks through favourable loans, whose interest rates, repayment deadlines and participation rates will certainly be adapted to their standard and this is very important in the realisation of the overall project. If good, or favourable living space prices are also taken into account, which will be no more than 500 euros plus VAT per square metre, which can be obtained through favourable housing loans. Employees in security services with optimism can wait for the implementation of the apartment building project at the planned locations. By voting for the proposed law, we will vote for all the positive effects discussed these days, which will be realised by applying the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37213	Thank you, colleague. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37214	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. A law on special conditions for the realisation of apartment building projects for members of security forces. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, would it be this law at all if the state of Serbia had no macroeconomic stability? Could we today talk about this law that is investment and undeniable, and that Serbia continued on the path it was going to 2014? In 2014, the Council adopted Serbia had a budget surplus of minus 6.5% systemically, Serbia has a 6.5% budget surplus in the first three months. The social gross product is at 4.5% in the first three months, and could we talk about the law that we do not have macroeconomic stability, or that our monetary policy was the way it was in 2014. Could we talk today about new apartments, new roads, and that our inflation rate is different from the inflation rate in the EU and is moving at a level of 1.1% to 1.5%? Could we talk about this law and other reform laws without our unemployment level being 11% and thus rounding up macroeconomic parameters? A few days ago, Serbia entered the level of public debt at 59%, or at the public debt level of 59.9%. Only three years ago it seemed unreal that the state of Serbia could meet the requirements of the mastrict, i.e. at the level of general duty below 60%. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, made their efforts in the area of fiscal policy from 2015 to 2017, i.e. the end of 2017, have enabled us MPs, for you, Madam Prime Minister, to pass such a law that means Serbia's growth and development in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37215	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Miloevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37216	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honored Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 4. I propose that the bill add the 11th position -- the realisation of the housing project provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. With this amendment, the improvement of the private sector is identified as the need to build buildings, sell real estate in the growing market demand. In all developed countries of Europe and the world, it is a private sector that dictates the direction of development and practice to be followed. The Republic of Serbia, as a state that seeks to become a full member of the EU, should follow the same principles. The housing projects are certainly the most important when we talk about creating professional and trained personnel among security forces. I've talked more than once about the need for those who are in the wind, who put their lives in danger, to fight to preserve peace and security, to have adequate conditions for life. Lastly, I want to highlight the personal desire that the years to come will make great progress in the development of our military and the MUP. In the last few years, the SNS authorities have returned the glow to our officers and soldiers, they've done a lot to make these people re-validable in the country and everywhere in the world, tore down the barriers that separated us from others and raised the level of technical power. We want peace, to be on our own and to keep our children safe. This law contributes and we believe in better tomorrow with the laws we bring to this respected home. I would also take this opportunity to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, who, at the beginning of this year with her complete team, visited the local self-government of the municipality of Arandelovac and the municipality of Arandelovac, and that at a joint meeting we brought a series of conclusions and tasks waiting for us in the coming period, where we will implement the projects and tasks that have been assigned. The most important thing was the reconstruction of the Markovac-Arangelovac road, as well as the M-4 bypass. The citizens of Arangelovec are to you, Vice President, forever grateful and in the hope that you will realize and promise, as you have always done, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37217	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, the primarius Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37218	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Mr Marinkovic, the Honored Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, the Honored People's MPs, and this amendment to Article 4, defines health conditions in housing and reads – the implementation of the housing project, provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving health conditions. From the point of view of health protection, certain requirements are being met that building planners should respect and ensure in plans and practical measures to develop the settlement. The hygiene minimum that needs to be achieved in the settlement is in fact a series of measures to create favourable environment life and to gradually eliminate various causes of disease. Hygiene requirements are the easiest to provide when building new buildings in existing settlements. Care for resolving the housing issue is not only a matter of doctors, or health workers, it is primarily a matter of political organisations and societies in general, but healthcare workers are a special role in the fight to achieve minimum health care institutions. In order to improve people's health, we must achieve the existing housing fund to be improved by new housing building, which meets the hygiene conditions. These goals cannot be achieved without the development of a housing culture, which includes living habits, or the style of living in an apartment. Health Enlightenment in the field of housing hygiene is a factor that can eliminate many causes of poor health, which we normally attribute to the apartment as such. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37219	Thank you, Dr. Ranncic. On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Dr. Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Dr Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37220	Thank you, Chairman. Article 4 of this Bill discusses how to provide financial resources for the implementation of this project, and I symbolically wanted to help with the amendment. What you said today in the debate, a respected minister, is that some projects, including Corridor 10 are as old as ideas, decades old. You haven't said anything that's new and that Serbia doesn't already know, but it's good to always remind us of these things. It is good that Serbia knows the consequences of crime and malfeasance emptying the People's Wallet and then these ideas remain only an idea forever. Why am I telling you this? Not even Subotic is anything different. Subotica is usually the local self-government I come from, it's not much different. For decades, we have been waiting for investment in Palic, investment in the Ipislon arm, investment in the regional dump, investment in the National Theatre, etc. Here, already in 2006, you see, Palic is also a decade-old idea. In 2006, you have a master plan, and only in 2018 you have a serious investment in Palić and on the swimming pools and on the summer stage and in sports fields, etc. When it comes to Ipsylon's arm, a respected minister, I don't think I have to tell you specifically about the importance of the Ipsylon arm, when it comes to Subotics, and that's something that's a life thing for the Sobotians and something you solve along with our mayor. We already have investment in the regional dump. The prime minister visited the site, showed the government's interest and secured 111 million in the republican budget for the National Theatre, 112 in the province, 250 in the city, etc. Of course every job and success won't forgive you. Nor do they forgive you and our mayor Bogdan Laban. You've heard the mischievous comments and the mischievous criticism. If you continue with the mayor at that job, you persist. It's going to be the best way to push away and simply eliminate all these criticisms that are really just malpractice, and this is going to be a good way for me to improve my proposal by providing financial resources for the implementation of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37221	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Alexandera Mike, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37222	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill we've been talking about the other day. Article 4 refers to the way in which the financial means of building apartments for members of the military, the militia and other security forces are provided. More specifically, this article determines who and what it will provide for in order to build these apartments as soon as possible, but what is not pointed out is that these apartments can be built from funds obtained from the sale of assets of the Ministry of Defence, i.e. Former barracks, military homes and the like. The homes of the military in all cities and municipalities were once one of the gathering centers in each city, or every municipality, and today more than 400 military facilities are collapsing and collapsing. I know that the assessment of military property is being carried out by the Tax Administration on the basis of legal provisions and I know that local self-governments are already privileged in these regulations, but obviously that's not enough and that's why I once again want to appeal to solve this issue together. Whether we're going to change the law, whether we're going to bring a lex specialise to the sale of this property or sublegislative acts, make it even easier for local self-government to get to these facilities, because it has proved in practice so far that the administrations of local self-government are the ones best managed by the former assets of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37223	Thank you. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37224	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we have a huge result from our government in the past, I express a special honor, a pleasure but also a pride to be part of the SNS, but I represent the citizens of the Kursumli municipality, where I come from, who have shown the trust of the SNS. Speaking of the municipality of Kursumli, I would especially like to express my satisfaction with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Construction, which will begin the construction of the E80 highway in the second half of 2018, and this is the first section of the Merošina-Pločnik highway. The highway will connect Serbia with Albania and will be the main hub of the Balkans. It means a lot to our citizens, to service providers, but also to manufacturers, because we will lower costs and production, but also to provide services. When it comes to housing, housing has a multiple role, not only to improve living standards and living conditions for members of the security force, but also to the problem of the birth rate we had in the previous period. Conversing with members of the security service who in the previous period resolved the housing issue, they decide to work to expand their families. So housing has a multiple role, allowing us to achieve both economic goals and social and social goals, which is very important to us. So, our government is doing everything it does, it does meaningfully, it works for Serbian citizens to live better and Serbia's citizens are really living better today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37225	Thank you, colleague. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is the last amendment I have submitted to this bill, I would once again refer to the most significant moments that represent the benefits this law brings for the state and the citizens. This law is the beginning of a permanent, as we have said, solution to a major problem, a housing issue for members of a security force that hasn't been resolved for decades. So 1,578 apartments in the first phase, 5,203 apartments in total. Is that enough for everyone right now? Of course not, but so far it's nothing, and it's got to start somewhere. Is it a good price? It's a good price, and those who dispute probably don't know anyone in those categories who lives as a tenant, who does this kind of responsible work, has a family, and lives as a tenant. Only they can dispute the price of 500 euros per square. Are fair and just conditions for all members? They did. This law prescribes equal conditions for all members of security forces. Are all possible abuses prevented by law? Yes, to the greatest extent possible, the possible abuses of the law are foreseen. Will the law have a positive impact on other social entities in the country? Yeah, we took it out a couple of times. Therefore, from what we have said so far, it is clear that this law represents a significant step in this regard and I call for us to adopt the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37227	Thank you, colleague Markovic. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37228	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order for a country to have political, economic power to have an economy that can guarantee it. I don't think we've used up enough agricultural resources, we haven't used enough of what we can do in agriculture, and we need to look up to the countries that are ahead. It's Holland and Denmark. I think that, with a slightly better organisation, with a regular payment of subsidies, with larger subsidies, they can only be provided by developing a processing industry that can withdraw agricultural production and guarantee, to provide for greater incentives that should be at least close to European incentives. Since our farmers are much more resourceful, given that they are much more valuable, I believe they can produce even better results than the Netherlands and Denmark do. Together, they have the export of agricultural products and the food value of 100 billion. Our current exports are at a maximum of 2.7 billion. I believe that this should be promoted and in such a way taken care of both peasants and workers, that both have jobs and bread. Every human being, including those left by the DS without a job, they're blown away, those underpaid have the right to have a decent home, decent work, honest work and decent profit. With that in mind, I support this law, and my amendment is only an attempt to promote agricultural policy for my party is my party and I believe that it can guarantee prosperity to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37229	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Desanka Repac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was just about to ask what happened to my Zrenjanin, I hope soon Petrovgrad, and you've already given me the answer that is in the next plan, so thank you for that. I hope you've made all my fellow citizens as happy as I have. This is a law that, in my opinion, changes the social and material status of security forces most significantly. What's more and what's bigger than a roof over his head? Of course, all this affects the prosperity and security of the Republic of Serbia, but what I insist on in all amendments, the security and security of our countrymen in the region. Many of them who were born outside Serbia's today's borders, bearing honor and oaths have left their hearths, left their inheritance estate and are having a hard time returning there today, as participants in the collapse of the SFRY are often under secret indictments and often have huge problems. It is very important that this law includes all this and that we always think of Serbs in the region as our closest and most faithful, especially when in my environment, as I have quoted Professor Svetozar Stojanovic here, who once said that he was a great heroic tradition, but a quinspeke. We need to be aware of that. We have examples like this here, not just accusations and self-inflictedness. We have those who hold fast to these charges of war and genocide and are all together great allies of all Serb enemies. That's why they enjoy the support of fundamentalists of various species, human organs dealers, those who maintain today... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37231	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37232	Dear People's MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister, with no concern for the previous government, decades ago, members of security services that make us feel safe have failed to resolve their housing issue. This law is being passed in order to finally resolve this problem, also present in the municipality of Novi Knezevic, from which I come, and today it is possible to resolve it because Serbia has been moving forward since 2012, through accelerated development. The results of the hard work of the two 2012s allow us to open up a new investment cycle that will further ensure economic growth and overall development of the Republic of Serbia. A number of construction sites that will be opened throughout Serbia will further reduce the unemployment rate. It will enable the construction industry to employ up to the maximum capacity and thus ensure the safety of employees who were mainly in the period 2000-2012 in Vojvodina until 2016 left jobs while their businesses were literally kidnapped. Today it is possible to provide investment funds and speed up the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia because this country is led by serious people led by Alexander Vukic, who primarily care about their citizens, their needs and lead us towards a better and safer future. The investment in the housing certainly ensures the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia and the development of its local self-government, which is the primary goal of us from the SNS, and as this project draws us closer to it, it deserves our unreserved support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37233	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37234	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Zorana, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to put an emphasis on underdeveloped areas, on mountainous and mountainous areas, on the development of small areas, on the development of our villages, on our agriculture, because by investing and implementing this project to build apartments for our people who have fought for our country, who have protected all of us in Serbia, who now have the opportunity to get a roof over their heads, I think that's the real thing. Once again, I would like to thank you, Vice-President of the Government, because I have confidence in you, because you have given great support to small municipalities in the construction of roads, through the construction of all the necessary things that are done and where people function on the roads. In particular, with us in our community where I come from, there's a road to the Old Mountain that I always talk about. We from small municipalities have a great chance of developing tourism. At the end of the road to the Old Mountain, now being done, I expect that there will be an even greater frequency of traffic and that more people will have the opportunity to reach the Old Mountain, visit the beauty of the Old Mountain, and thus pass through the Svrljig, through the Library, through the Pirot, through the White Palanca. They can buy quality agricultural products there. Here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party and as an MP, I always represent the interest of our agricultural producers and all those people living in the country and from the village, because I know that without our village, without our peasant, without our worker, without our faith, without our military, police and all of us there is no development of our Serbia and survival. As a man, I support this law and all these laws, because I know that you are headed by our prime minister and our President Vukic is ready to work for every part of our Serbia, for every village, for every inch of our country. I expect that in the next period we will continue to build these roads and railways. I'm sure every place will be a good road, investors will come. We will also work to improve subsidies, with a special emphasis on undeveloped areas, on our villages, on those people who work on the ground and thus feed themselves, our environment and our country to Serbia. Once again, I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of my amendment and I urge all people to support us and me as president of the United Peasants' Party and everyone, especially our President, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37235	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. In accordance with Article 158(4), I'd like to inform you that we've spent ten hours to discuss this. Now I'm setting a five-minute break and we're back to work. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Members 5 and Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Filip Stojanovic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Dubravko Bojic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenković. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37237	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 10th Amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted his name. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members of the 12th and Article 12th Amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of the title above Article 13 was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title of Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of the title above Article 16 was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of the title above article 18 was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branko Stamenković, Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of the title above Article 23 was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of the title above Article 24 was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of the title above article 25 was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of the title above article 26 was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received reports from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Alexander Belačić and Verica Rade together submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marina Ristic and Milorad Mircic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nikola Savic and Tomislav LJubenović together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Bozidar Delic and Momcilo Mandic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric and Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Petar Jojic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nemanja Sarović and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nikola Savic, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Bozidar Delić, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Sreto Perić, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Miljan Damjanović, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nemanja Sarović, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Petar Jojic, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, MP Katarina Rakic, the Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Marina Ristic, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Ružica Nikolic, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nikola Savic, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Bozidar Delić, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Sreto Perić, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 13th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Dubravko Bojić, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 14th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Filip Stojanović, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14, the People's Parliament Katarina Rakic, the Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nemanja Sarović, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Miljan Damjanović, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Sreto Perić, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Dubravko Bojić, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Miljan Damjanović, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Bozidar Delić, submitted the MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nikola Savic submitted their submissions. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Ljiljana Mihajlovic together submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Verica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Dubravko Bojic, Bozidar Delic and Sreto Peric submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Miljan Damjanovic, submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nemanja Sarović, submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nikola Savic, submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Dubravko Bojić, submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) You want a word in the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37238	I warn you of article 27, Mr. Chairman, for the sake of the public, it was necessary to say that the MPs you read have submitted amendments, you say – is anyone answering for a word? Well, then you say no one. It's just that we'd like to talk very much about our amendments, but since the Rules of Procedure is so bad, and so indemnity, it doesn't allow MPs to talk about amendments that have been submitted, I think I need to know, because it's getting the wrong impression, now someone's going to say, look, they're submitting amendments to play the National Assembly. No, we're doing this very seriously, but unfortunately we can't explain it, and we've submitted a lot of amendments to all the bill's proposals. And what we've been saying today during the debate on details, the Rules of Procedure is that we can actually say everything, we're not four members of a bill, and we've heard here that even thousands of amendments are being submitted here. Obviously, we've had the Minister tired today, so he won't be here tomorrow, he'll send someone else back four days, one day she'll barely attend the session. So much for her attitude towards parliamentary democracy and towards the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37239	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Kola Marinkovic informed the assistant and deputy secretary for a little while that the time provided for the debate in particular had expired and that it was said by his colleague Marinkovic for a little while. I have to ask if anyone is answering for a word, not because of a parliamentary group that has no more time to discuss it, but because of the parliamentary groups that have the time to discuss it, because there are several parliamentary groups that have some time left in the room, and they still have the opportunity to talk about the amendments, which, among other things, you have also submitted to other parliamentary groups. Of course, I didn't want in any way to minimize your efforts and everything you said during today. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together by Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Ružica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Bozidar Delić and LJiljana Mihajlović submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Ljiljana Mihajlovic together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic together submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Bozidar Delic and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Marina Ristic, Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenovic submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nemanja Sarovi, Miljan Damjanovic and Filip Stojanovic together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Bozidar Delic, submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nikola Savic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted this amendment. The Constitutional and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Sreto Peric submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Petar Jojic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Ruzica Nikolic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted this amendment. The Constitutional and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nemanja Sarović submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nikola Savic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Ruzica Nikolic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and LJiljana Mihajlović submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Dubravko Bojić, submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Marina Ristic, submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Bozidar Delic, submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nemanja Sarović, submitted to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Miljan Damjanovic, submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Nikola Savic, submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 52nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Sreto Peric, submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Bozidar Delic, submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Verica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 56th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted together to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Nemanja Sarovic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 58th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Miljan Damjanovic, submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Tomislav LJubenović, submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 60th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and jointly Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Marina Ristic, submitted to the 62th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic and together Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Ruzica Nikolic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE PURPOSE OF WRITING IN THE CASTAR OF IMPLEMENTATION AND WATERS You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You've received reports from the board of directors. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he dismissed as incomplete amendments of the People's MPs Vjerica Rade and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović as a member of 30, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić as a member of 34th and Vjerica Radet and Milorad Mirčić as a member of 48th. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the proposal by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Amendment Bill, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Momcilo Mandic, Nemanja Sarovic and Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic and jointly Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and LJljana Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Momcilo Mandic and Aleksandra Belacic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Verica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Verica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 10th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Rade and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the People's Parliament, Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic, submitted together to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 19th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović together submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Rade and Ruzica Nikolic submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović together submitted together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and together Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, together with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović submitted the 27th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 28th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric and Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Verica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radet and Nikola Savic together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 40th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic submitted together to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Petar Jojic submitted together to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović together submitted together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Prophets Radet and Alexander Seselj submitted together to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Verica Radeta and Zoran Despotovic together submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric and Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Đurišić, together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together with Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlović, together with the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 50th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vesnica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomic, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic submitted together to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Verica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric and Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and together Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić, together with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliament of the Prophets Rade and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic submitted together to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Prophets Radet and Alexander Seselj submitted together to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milosav Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoltan Pek, Aleksandra Tomić, Djordje Milicevic, Miroslav Aleksic, Jasmina Karanac, Katarina Rakić, Vojislav Vujic, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Ognje Pantović, Mr. Ivan Kostic and Aleksandar Stevanović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic submitted together to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37240	The fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Freight in Drumsports You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the proposal. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 14th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, the MPs Jasmina Karanac, Dr Ivan Bauer, Branimir Jovanovic and Dr Predrag Jelenkovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37241	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, I thank you for launching an initiative to solve that long-term problem. setting up protective boards and security boards in the part of the corridor passing through the city of Nis. As for the amendments and one and the other which we have submitted, the justification would be that the proposed amendment foresees more severe penalties for carrying burdens for our own needs, because we felt that the greater punishment would be more adequate for the offence, i.e. that the greater penalty would produce a greater effect in the prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-23-0.u37242	I thank my colleague. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 19th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Karanac, Dr Ivan Bauer, Branimir Jovanovic and Dr Predrag Jelenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Katarina Rakic and MPs of the SDS group submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we are done by all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to Fifth Point. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 9 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 11th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic and the MPs of the SDS. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal. Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic and MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we are done by all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected him as an incomplete amendment of the People's MPs: Aleksandra Seselj on Article 3, Gorica Gajic on Article 10, Tomislav LJubenović on Article 123 and Peter Jojic on Article 123. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. To the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 1 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 11th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 13th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 14th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the amendment of the 15th in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 19th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 21 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 26th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to the 28th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 31st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 35th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 37 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 38 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 39th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 40th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 41st Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 42 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 43rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 44th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 45th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 46th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 47 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 48th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 50th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 51st Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 53 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 54th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 55th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 56th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 57th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to Article 58 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 59th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted to the 60th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 61 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 62 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 64th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 68 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 69 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 70 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 74 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 77 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 79 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party's MPs submitted to the 80th Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party's MPs submitted to the 81st Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 82, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 83rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The members of the 84th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party's MPs submitted to the 85th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 87 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga, together submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which was added after article 87 by a new member of 87, was jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party's MPs submitted to the 90th Amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 93 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 94 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 95 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 96 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 97 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic has submitted to the title above Article 98. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 98th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 99 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 100 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted to the title above Article 101 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 101st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Nikola Savic and MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 102 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 103 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 104 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 105 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 106 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 107 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 108 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 109 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 110 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 111 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 111. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 112 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 112 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 113 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic to Article 113. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 114 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 115 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 116 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic to Article 116. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 117 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 118 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 119 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 120th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 121 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 122 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 123 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. (Djorđe Milicevic): We move to the 7th point of the agenda – draft law on railways. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the proposal of the Law on Railways. You've received reports from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which was added after Article 10, the name of the member and Article 10a together was submitted by the MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 23rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 27th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 42nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 46th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 48th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 50th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 117 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 127 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 128 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 130 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 135 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 136 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 138 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 139 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 141 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 143 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 143 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )To Article 144 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 145 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we do today's work. We'll continue our work tomorrow with a start at 10.00 hours.
