ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38276	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38277	I refer a parliamentary question to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. For 20 years now, whether really or seemingly, Serbia has been fighting a battle to preserve KIM in its own territory, and this is the help of the Russian Federation, as Serbia's only true brother partner and throughout history, as well as today. We have an absurd situation, to ask the Russian Federation to guard and take care of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and its veto in the Security Council to defend that integrity, and the Republic of Serbia does not recognise Russia's territorial integrity. Since 16 March 2014, the Republic of Crimea and the town of Sevastopol have been the full subjects of the Russian Federation and as such within the territory of the Russian Federation and is extremely hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, that Serbia should ask Russia to respect territorial integrity and protect and defend Serbia without Serbia respecting Russia's territory. Also, since NATO's aggression and criminal bombing in 1999, the Republic of Serbia has been co-operating with the NATO Pact in one way or another. Two SOFA and IPAP agreements have been signed, which this National Assembly has verified, which give more rights to NATO soldiers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, have been released from all duties, customs duties, must not be detained, legislated or stopped, can use our routes without compensation, our bases and anything else, they have more rights than was foreseen by the Three Pact that Yugoslavia should make concessions to the Third Reich. So, I'm asking the foreign ministry and the Prime Minister -- when will the status of Russian humanitarians in Nis be resolved at the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, and why is this such a problem to resolve this issue? We'll remember these Russians again, if we have, God forbid, some floods or fires, or where they haven't helped us yet, why is it all running away from these issues, to get rid of seven or eight people's diplomatic status, by the way, which, by the way, saved us on several occasions, our population and property during these disasters, and we're able to give the NATO Pact forces benefits that they may not have at home? That's embarrassing, and that question needs to be resolved as soon as possible. On the other hand, I am interested in when the Republic of Serbia will officially end its negotiations with the EU, i.e. to interrupt them, because it is clear that the EU is asking Serbia to give up the works of its territory. It's an unprecedented condition in history, something like that can't be compared to anything, not only unacceptable, but it's also scandalous and embarrassing to discuss such an opportunity in public at all, to run some kind of internal dialogue, and what else. So, it should be said clearly - if the EU wants Serbia without Kosovo and if it considers it that way, we have nothing to talk to them about, and we should look for partners and alternatives on the other side. We've lost these 18 years. Don't let us waste this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38278	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38279	Thank you. The first question I would like to refer to the President of the Republic - will, since he has already been asked, although he is not in charge, declare the initiative of the Freedom Association to raise the monument to Slobodan Milosevic and will he reject the initiative? Will he perhaps propose to raise a monument instead to the victims of the 1990s and the authorities of Slobodan Milosevic, for example? a monument to the defeated protesters, who, in the winter of 1996 and 1997, defended the electoral will of citizens and the victory of the opposition in local elections, whom the international community had to make him confess and declare a famous Lex specialism, a monument to the murdered journalists, such as Slavko Curuvija, a monument killed at the Ibari Masteral, a monument to Ivan Stambolic, murdered and buried in a cave with a rave, a monument to all the wars he fought and all the victims of these wars from all the former Yugoslav republics of all nationalities and religion? Perhaps, in fact, for the next generations, it would be best for the president to support the creation of a museum in the 1990s, with images taken when coolers with Kosovo Albanian civilians were found in Serbia's territory. A monument to the victims of Srebrenica? To honor our part of the work, let us face the past before our offspring, so that then pure hearts and souls may ask others to do the same. I would like to refer the second question to the finance minister – whether he intends to consider and implement the proposal that we made yesterday in front of the centre's movement to increase the fuel price for which citizens plan tomorrow a massive protest to stop traffic. A detailed proposal was made yesterday by our parliamentary group to use the space to reduce excise duties on fuel to a minimum of 20%, to reduce the revenue of the budget, which will result in a replacement of excise duties on alcohol, sugared soda and tobacco products, and thus the problem is currently being resolved and the conditions for the price of fuel to be reduced, to introduce a step-by-step excise duty which would fall with the price of raw oil, to keep the price of oil derivatives constant and to put in place a budget reserve which, together with a degree of excise duty, would be used to compensate for the reduction of excise revenues when it is reduced, and to prevent an increase in the price of petroleum products during the periods when we have external shocks, as we now have, when the price of raw oil is high and to audit public expenditures and to make additional savings at black levels. I would like to ask the third question to the Prime Minister - The Fiscal Council in March of this year published an analysis of the conditions for the sustainability of the budget balance achieved by fiscal consolidation, what is needed to do to preserve the results of this fiscal consolidation paid most by citizens by reducing wages and pensions? I brought it up when the elected finance minister was, although the prime minister didn't comment on it at the time, so today I would ask her something that wasn't the time. How it intends to address the problem of local finances, because the Fiscal Council in this analysis finds that the finances of local self-government and local public enterprises are poor, that the debts of cities and municipalities and their enterprises have reached around 800m euros, which also calls for a delay in paying additional 300m euros in liabilities, and states that the structure of local public expenditures is very bad and that, above all, the problem is too low investment and over-expensive subsidies to local public enterprises. In the upcoming Belgrade elections, we had an example of intervention from the republican budget for the city of Belgrade. In addition to this, we are interested in a plan to resolve about 150 failed state-owned enterprises in the privatisation process, which continue to employ about 50,000 workers. Some companies such as RTB Bor and Petrochemia did not make losses solely because of favourable market conditions, low oil and gas prices, or high copper prices. These circumstances can easily be reversed and with the price of crude oil already happening. These companies are threatening to build an additional burden on public finances, and in addition to some companies, even favourable macroeconomic circumstances have not helped them to operate profitablely, as is the case with, say, Azotar and Resavico. We would ask the Prime Minister to send us, in response to the parliamentary question, a plan to address these situations and these problems, since, when it was a session on the election of the Finance Minister, to our presentation, where we made serious remarks to the Fiscal Council and a proposal on how to hold a difficultly acquired fiscal consolidation on a longer period of time, it did not comment on it in a single word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38280	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38281	Thank you. My question goes to the address of the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly, and it is a repeat question – when will the session of this Parliament on Kosovo finally be scheduled? Of course, in coordination with the President of the Republic, but the two are ultimately and most responsible, at least formally, for maintaining or not holding this session, which is, I would say, a kind of parliamentary political scandal, because we see that there are no guests from abroad who come and talk to us here, and a good part of their presentation and their speech is not exactly dedicated to the subject of KIM. It seems to me that our Parliament and our political public are least interested, and many guests who come here and welcome and encourage, and we receive these praises and encouragement, but with some feeling, I would say almost unhappiness that they are partly unworthy, given what kind of policy has been being conducted by the government of this country for years and how in various ways perfiduously, I would say, and tendedly these issues push under the carpet and slightly cooked frog, the local public is accustomed to the independence of KIM. So this session is absolutely necessary to us. I'm like all of you or most of you, someone who was proud and these are some moments when we can be proud to be MPs in this House, when we listen to guests not only from Russia and China, means the great forces that speak to us, but here are the small, but obviously friendly Slovak or Cypriots a few months ago. So, as the sincere, warm, not formal-burocratic and diplomatic dictionaries speak of us, of Serbia and of our history and of the support that they provide for our position on KIM. That attitude is, that's my fear, my suspicions are seriously waning and a serious fluctuation, judging by the statements of the most responsible people in this country, and above all by the president of the state. That is why this dialogue here in the Assembly is absolutely necessary with respect, of course, to all other places where this dialogue is being conducted or should be conducted. The additional motive for this question is, unfortunately, two things, two news coming from Pristina, where the head of the Pristina negotiating team, and in fact Kosovo, Arni Arifi, said they would not go to Brussels for the last round he wanted to schedule, because they are not satisfied with the agenda, because they do not want to discuss the issue of the Serb municipalities' community independently and unrelated from other topics that Pristina is interested in. So it's just another slap on the long history of humiliation that comes to us from Pristina and that our government swallows under different excuses. Worse and last thing I want to point out, Ramush Haradinaj has now withdrawn from the Pristina Parliament procedure a negotiating platform for the Brussels process, because it is not harmonised enough. But in this platform, dear colleagues, it is mentioned that the president regularly reports to the Assembly on the activities of the negotiating process, a chair in the UN, of course, and everything that is otherwise required in a delegation that participates allegedly should be represented by the presidents of all political parties in Pristina and Kosovo, respectively. I mean, unfortunately, when we look at, add and subtract, and these details and that attitude towards Brussels, and that attitude and that platform and that content of that platform of Pristina for negotiations with us or with Serbia, they show that they act as the manners of a serious state, and I'm afraid of a dear colleague that we are increasingly and very often, when it comes to the Kim relationship, we act as so-called. State. In the hope that it will be different and that it will not end this way, please, I appeal to the most responsible political factors in this country that, independently of more or less good and bad excuses, why this is not done here in this home, therefore, not on the Committee on KIM that sits on shifts and at headquarters, and then mostly closed, for the public to look ourselves in the eye and tell us what we both have at the same time, the state summit of this country to us. Without it, we look more and more like the so-called. banana country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38282	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38283	Thank you, Chairman. I refer my question to the Minister of Youth and Sports, Vanji Udovici – what happens to scholarship students receiving the Dosite scholarship? Namely, it is a scholarship received by the best students of this country, the best students among other things, our country, which is the final year of primary and master studies. They waited months for the Ministry to even publish the ranking list. After the ranking list was published, just days after my question in this same place, students faced the fact that their scholarships are late, that they're messy, that they can't plan anything about that money. The students even referred me a few questions, begging me to ask the Minister here if they were flight scholarships, since they still don't receive scholarships. They're just for example. They've now received a April scholarship, and the month of June is in progress. What I would also like to ask Minister Vanju Udovici is – does his ministry in co-operation with the government have any plan regarding these students? Namely, the conditions they need to meet to get a scholarship are very sharp and very strict. Among other things, students have to spend at least five years in the state of Serbia after completing their studies. If they can't get a job, they've got to be on the Bureau for three years, unless they want the scholarship back. The students wrote to me wondering how they could ever find a job, when in Serbia the championship always has party personnel, often with suspiciously bought diplomats, often without any expertise or knowledge. So it happens that we have a situation that the best students of this country, milder Serbia, the most valuable thing this country has, are on the desk for three years or what they often do in a very large number of cases is that they look for their happiness and career in some other countries. The fact is that these other countries, such as the EU, America or Canada, New Zealand, Australia, are receiving our students with open arms and broad heart. They can apply their knowledge and experience in these countries and thus improve not only their economy and their society but, among other things, their lives. Nostalgia is something they face, but there's always the inevitable Skype they use, trying to get over the sadness of their country. The country's attitude and carelessness towards the best students in this country is not something the current government has invented. I've been a student of this country myself, and I've met with the same things during the previous government. Worrying about students, i.e. just declarative care and patting on the shoulders and back, is something that is clearly characteristic of every authority. It's deeply tragic and deeply devastating, both for our country and for our society as a whole. We recently had the opportunity to hear the Prime Minister's statement, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, calling on these young people to stay in the country. I ask her the question on this occasion, does the Government have any plan for these children? I'll be free to make my proposal. I suggest that these kids, our country's scholarship students, our best students who, in order to achieve the possibility of receiving that scholarship at all, have to have an average of over 8.5, give a year after year, not to drop exams and, as they would say, a regular clean year, so I suggest that the prime minister make such a plan that these children have a priority in employment in the state and in the state administration in the public sector. Why wouldn't these kids, who have proven to be the best students, have priority in employment? They've been bitter for years watching half-writers take up the places they need, both knowledge and effort, and whatever else you want. Why would such children not have every priority for employment? Why would such ones not promote our country because their knowledge is the greatest treasure and the greatest benefit our country can have? So once again I ask Minister Vanji Udovic - is there any strategy for hiring students who received the Dosite scholarship? I also ask the question of the prime minister – what will she do about it? Will she be involved in creating a strategy that would allow these children to remain in the country? Also, a brief question for Finance Minister Sinisha Malloy. There's a situation where now the question of paying off scholarships, the responsibility for paying off scholarships, is transferred to his ministry, and I would ask him to answer the question of how many scholarships will he receive by the end of the year from this most significant scholarship this country has? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38284	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38285	Dear citizens of Serbia, today I want to ask first of all the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, who I am beginning to conclude, it is not easy for me to admit it, but I must, that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic was right when he said we were really the first in Europe. We are the first in Europe, but at the price of fuel in Serbia. The price of diesel fuel in Serbia is the most expensive in all of Europe, and I really congratulate Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic on this remarkable historical result that no one has ever done in Serbia's history and he is really the first in it. The question for the distinguished lady in the position of Prime Minister is: Why does Serbia have such a high fuel price and when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do something to reduce the price of fuel in the part where the Government of the Republic of Serbia can influence? To be clear, I am absolutely aware of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot affect the world's fuel price, various financial jumps, a leap of dollars, various world oil derivatives markets, and that part of the fuel price, the government certainly cannot correct. However, there is another part of the price of fuel, which is excise fuel, which can be directly affected by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it does not. I immediately find that from the new year, only in 2018, on average, the price of fuel in Serbia has accumulated by 10 dinars, that we have 35 to 45 dinars more expensive fuel than certain countries in the environment, such as, for example, Macedonia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. By diesel fuel, I repeat, we are the first in Europe when it comes to the price of that fuel. What is less known in our public is that the price of fuel is primarily affected by excise duties, i.e. what needs to be paid to the state, and it is even less known that these excises amount to 53 to 55% of the current fuel price in Serbia. For example, if the fuel price is 160 dinars, more than 80 dinars within that fuel price are practically going to the state for excise duties. What does that mean? This means that, according to the current Excise Act, the government of the Republic of Serbia, by its regulation, can decide today, at a session of the Government of Serbia, to reduce the price of fuel by 20%, as much as that law provides, and to send amendments and amendments to the Excise Act here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to reduce the excise duties on fuel in Serbia. What is a fact and I must insist on is supporting on behalf of the Serbian Dvora Movement an absolutely announced protest for tomorrow, Friday, at 5:00 p.m., launched by a Panchean citizens' initiative, that from 17 to 18 p.m. on Friday we all go out with our vehicles and block traffic in Serbia and send a clear message to the government of the Republic of Serbia that the price of fuel in Serbia is too high and must be reduced. What the government only understands are civil protests and civil disobedience. Until citizens protest, the government won't solve any of your problems. That's what the raspberries saw when they came before the government. The government didn't receive them. They blocked the highway, the government started receiving them for conversation. This was also seen by all associations that have loans indexed in Swiss francs, banking clients. While not protesting, the Supreme Cassation Court did not think of solving their problems, and yesterday, after the protest, guarantees that by October 1st in all courts in Serbia, all judicial proceedings concerning just the banking clients damaged in this robbery will be resolved. I think this is a problem that also plagues Serbian Progressive Party voters and the Socialist Party of Serbia, who also pay too much fuel and cannot understand the president of Serbia, who is all of us who support this protest tomorrow, at 5:00 p.m. on Friday, calling political lunatics. That's amazing and inadmissible. Such protests today take place in Brazil, India, Germany, in many other countries. On April 12, 2018, were the Germans political lunatics in Stuttgart when they stopped and jammed traffic for protests? Was Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic a political lunatic when he stopped at Gazela to watch, at his own recognition, "Belgrade on Water" as a symbol of money laundering, corruption and crime? Could someone have died at the time because he stopped abruptly and jammed traffic on Gazela?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38286	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38287	Thank you very much. A few questions. The first issue to the Serbian government, the Prime Minister and all ministers who are in their jurisdiction regarding the issue, which is the matter of pensions. There was an announcement the other day, some people representing themselves, one as president of the state, the other as some official, said that pension cuts stopped and that it was a historic phenomenal decision that would have incredibly positive effects on pensioners. It's been a few weeks since then, maybe two, maybe three. I ask the Serbian Government -- is there anyone in Serbia's government who is in writing, and if there is, to determine who is in writing, who can, in relation to the announcement that was made 15 days ago, make a law that would be called, I know it's difficult, to overcome the creative and any other possibilities of the current government, but to write a law that reads -- the law on the suspension of the existence of the Law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions paid out from 2014? This is the title, Article 1. - the law I've already stated is abolished. Article 2 - this law is published in the "Official Messenger", eight days after the adoption of the National Assembly. The signature should say President or Prime Minister, how he likes to feel, Ana Brnabic. So, is there anyone in the Serbian government written enough to break such a law and send it to the Assembly, since it was announced as a miracle unseen? It'd be nice. That's one question about pensions. The second question is how much money has been stolen from pensioners under this law in the last four years? It is said that it is small, that it will have the greatest possible pensions in the history of mankind and perhaps before the history of mankind, and before Christ, and before Muhammad, and I don't know first of all, to see how much money has been taken from pensioners, depending on groups, by categories of pensions and what the government's intention is to do with that theft. Will she be returned through... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38288	Mr. Zivkovic, you can't call someone who enforces the law a thief. (Zoran Zivkovic: No, I didn't say that. It is, and you call the effects of law enforcement stealing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38289	So, who took by law or by quasi law and how many pensioners, or what group of pensioners, at their retirement levels? What is the intention of this money, or will it be returned? If it will be returned, when will it be returned and in what way, by what dynamics? So, another question from that area -- what are the effects of that? How many pensioners have died in the last four years because they didn't have money for drugs, say? And they couldn't make it possible because their pensions were small and still reduced. The second group of issues is also addressed to the Serbian government and the competent ministers, and concerns SNS President Aleksandr Vukic's promises to Serbia's football players that if they win a championship in Russia, which is now starting within the next day, they will receive a 10m-euro prize. My question is who authorized President Vukic to promise money, because that money is in charge of Serbia's budget? If not, the government will tell me from which source President Vukic promised those fees. Is that money adopted by the 2018 budget? Were they adopted by budget spending plan for June and July of this year? From which source, is this taken from the budget reserve or taken from the part intended to support the pension fund or is it taken from the Fund for the Treatment of Sick Children abroad or taken from local self-government or taken from a culture or taken from some sport activity that makes sense? By what criteria did someone estimate that 10m euros is the right measure for such a thing, if we know that athletes, as far as I remember, have about 50,000 euros in gold medals? How is it that the potential victory of the football players I want, of course, the greatest success in this championship, how and why should they get 10 times as much?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38290	You're bringing the end, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38291	I've got more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38292	You don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38293	No, no, I do. The third question is the question of the airport. The Serbian government has silenced, all with Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, on the subject. My question is, what's the plan? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38294	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: What is wrong with you? Nothing to me, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: First you interrupted me, you took 20 seconds from me. I don't want your right to be denied. (Zoran Zivkovic: Why are you doing this? I'm not doing anything, I'm implementing the Rules of Procedure. You spoke for two and a half minutes, so I interrupted you, reset your time, and you said two and a half minutes, two and a half and five. (Zoran Zivkovic: How? It's a lie, but check it out more. We'll check it out. And what if it's true, if I'm right? (Zoran Zivkovic: You can't possibly be right. It's a matter of generic lies. I thank you, colleague Zivkovic, for calling me a generic liar. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38295	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I always look forward to the ignorance of my fellow farmer. He never sweated, even though he tried to be a farmer. Here, he became an expert on pensions. With that in mind, to see how happy he is, someone must have opened the pubs earlier this morning. So, on pensions, I have to ask – is it true that my colleague, a farmer, who just swung a coffee cup, slammed the door of the National Assembly, did my fellow farmer, in one budget operation, take 525.000 euros, or 2,500 average pensions? To give me a clear answer – with how much money and what percentage is being touched into the pension-inhabited fund? So, not as much as the government took, but with how much the PIO fund is being touched. With this connection, given that my colleague Zivkovic participated in the layoff of 400,000 workers and thus impoverished both the PIO Fund and the Health Fund, to answer me how much employment had increased since 2012, when these peljesanovics, frauds, mutibarics and their team left power. So how many more people are employed? How much money does the government do to pensions, because he claims the government takes it? I want these questions answered clearly, as well as the question – did he take 2,500 pensions in a left hand operation – right pocket, did Zoran Zivkovic take 2,500 pensions and put them in his pocket? Second, my question concerns a similar team, which is an alliance of bums, jabobaros and frauds gathered around Dragan Djilas, and here I think of Boško Obradovica, Borko Stefanovica, Janko Veselinovica and the rest of the strange family. Is it true that they bought an Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia through one of them? This is a question for the Minister of Information in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is it true that with seven million dinars, they bought the famous Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, and does this affect the independent, objective and timely reporting of our citizens and of the work of this Parliament, and of course the events in our society? Also, is it true that the group mentioned has property or influence on David Petreus, the famous head of the CIA and former military commander in Afghanistan, that together Solak, Petreus, Gilas and the team around him gathered Bosko Obradovic, Borko Stefanovic, Janko Vesenovic, etc. they control more than the media space allowed in the Republic of Serbia. Because it's recently N1, CIA television, with no idea which number has been moved to number one, and RTS number two, so it's largely channel owners, cable TV, Total, and that in an unauthorized way they control too much media space, which can also affect the political opportunities, and God knows the country's independence, since many of them co-operate not only with David Petreus, the head of the CIA, but with the whole CIA, I want to get an answer to that question. The third question is fuel. Is it true, and since these are our uninformed, that the price of fuel is not determined by the government, namely that excise taxes, taxes and revenues are not determined by the Government of the Republic, but by the National Assembly. With that in mind, Mr. Chairman, these very good protectors who would like us to take Libya, Syria, Iran, etc. and bring down the price of fuel, I would like to ask you - is it true that the Serbian Parliament determines excise duties and other taxes, and did Bosko Obradovic submit any proposal, as an authorised promoter, to reduce excise duty and contribute, or just like this, as our people say, to the blank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38296	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38297	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, has referred my first question to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia, or more specifically, the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office. What I know with confidence is that the main public prosecutor's office in Sapac was addressed by a group of citizens, i.e. employees of the city's administration, and thus signed by the party of the mayors of Nebojsa Zelenovic and his mentor, Dusan Petrovic. A criminal application is worth five million dinars, with regard to the mayor's decision made on 19 February 2016 during the pre-election campaign, referring to the taking of garbage from the rural area. They decided not to charge for waste from January 1st to the end of April 2016 until elections for the town of Sabac, i.e. local elections, and informed the director of the municipal enterprise in that decision. When he answered that it was a crime, they of course replaced him, but an even bigger problem also gives the pre-election flyer that the mayor did immediately after making that decision, which only confirms their established practice that in elections, especially locals, they do not choose the means to buy a voice, and they bought not for a little, but a large, confirmed and government activist buying votes and there is also a video of it on social networks that anyone in Serbia can look at it. This criminal report is just a continuation of the purchase of votes, and I'm asking More Public Prosecutor's Office, because I know that the application in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is to answer us as far as it comes and when will it be announced what's going on in this matter of criminal charges? Secondly, my question was addressed to the Ministry of Finance, the budgetary inspection or rather told the finance minister to try to get in the way of the haughtiness and abuse of the mayor of Nebojska Zelenovic and his directors of local public enterprises. I have asked this before, and just in the application that I made to the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance 13.2, precisely with all the acts and documents relating to employment without the approval of the Commission of the Government of Serbia, without public competitions and of course in style, I, myself, exclusively party employment, the purchase of committee members and the employment of activists Dusan Petrovic and Neboja Zelenovic. What gives me for the right is exactly the report that I received from the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, which confirms to me that dozens of people are employed without government approval and thus is directly damaged by the budget of the city of Sapca, and the only one who has the right to stand in the way of this abuse and the continuation of budget spending, and I remind you that only in the 2015 budget has he abused and purposelessly spent five million euros, the process is still under way. I repeat, when will the budgetary inspection come to Shabac and finally determine which employees are in accordance with the law and who is not? Exactly because of the citizens of Shuptz and those who expect that when someone is to be hired in Shupco, at least a public call comes out. I guarantee that in the past five years, no competition, no public advertising for employment in the authorities of the city administration and local public enterprises, and people are employed from day to day. The third question, and indeed an outstanding question, I am asking the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. In December, more specifically, on 28.12., I applied for the suspension of the implementation of the General Act of the town of Šapca, which primarily refers to the takeover of competences which have the advice of local communities that are elected in the non-party and above all to the elections that decide who will decide on behalf of the citizens in their local communities. As early as December 3rd, a referendum was organised in the 24th local community, organised by the city administration, not by the advice of local communities, as provided for in the statutes and by law, to call the referendum alongside a series of irregularities and participations only by those who wrote on the list of their activists. Among other things, only 11.70% of citizens came out showing that such a referendum cannot make legally acceptable decisions, and in line with this, I ask the prime minister and the ministry to answer the question as soon as possible – when it will prevent the abuse of mayors and city councils towards local communities in Sapac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38298	Thanks, buddy. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Stefana Miladanovic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda, the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of the search in particular on the 1st item of the agenda, the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in a distance contract, has been called upon to attend by the Governor of the NBS, Dr. Jorvanka Tabaković. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38299	Mrs. Tabakovic, this second member of the law we are discussing is a notional character, however, what was important in this law is that everyone who has had such an experience, especially when it comes to the execution, the phase of the contract, the high-value contracts, because it is hard for anyone in the financial world to sign a contract of a few tens of thousands of euros in this way, and there is no clause that this Law on bond relations is actually the key to everything in case there is a dispute and a competent business court, which is not specified here. Therefore, these are some of the shortcomings that you have probably predicted, you did not consider that no one in the contractual relationship of debt, demand and provision of services can do without entering such a relationship, it is actually a bond relationship, but in a distance and in this way do so without the basic law that Serbia has. What I have to do today, Mr. Arsic, is to make a point, because the media did that yesterday, too, is this attitude of the MPs to the Assembly, the dignity of the Assembly. And, let's start again today, with the Meso Obradovic affair, I'm sorry, Omerovic. Yeah, my colleagues tell me I didn't make much of a mistake when it comes to Obradovic's last name, but later maybe we'll talk about Hilandar. When it comes to Meho Omerovic, and what he did, when he stole a pair of cosmetic products, perfume and lipstick at Frankfurt Airport, you know, Mr Arsic, in life someone gets something on one side, and Mrs Tabakovic knows it, and on the other hand loses. He violated the congregation's reputation, he lost his reputation here, but he probably got a reputation for his fellow thieves, and now he's probably getting a good quote there. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38300	No, you have no right to a replica. At no time were you mentioned, only if you are Meho Omerovic. Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and together, Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38301	This bill, soon the law, should certainly exist and we have not in this sense denied the fact that this law should be passed, but you are somewhat praising this law in terms, especially through these amendments, how much better everyone in this country will be when this law is passed. No, I'm afraid not. Unfortunately, there are many people in Serbia who will never feel the benefits of this law because they have no payment cards, because they receive a salary, guaranteed 200 euros, of which 5,000 dinars or 10,000 have to give to the employer and we have talked about it to the previous Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister and one and the other said they know it and that they will work to stop it, but as we can see nothing about it. Jorgenka Tabakovic can enjoy the benefits of this law, so can we MPs, but she can especially because she receives a salary of 5,000 euros. So, Jorvanka Tabakovic's salary is 20 guaranteed to earn millions of people in Serbia who receive, who work for that money. The other day I said it was this real profit average in Serbia, 210 euros is a real average, not what we're talking about, 40 and I don't know how many thousands, counting, probably, and Yorgovanki 5,000 euros. So, from her point of view, this law is also very good, because it can do business remotely, it can use cards in Budva, and in Rome, and in Hungary and wherever it goes. The citizens of Serbia, unfortunately, will not have a great deal of this law, the vast majority of citizens, and the MPs must seriously worry that we will be following a set of laws that has been following us since Sunday to discuss on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights. It's high time for Meku Omerovica, a proven thief from Frankfurt airport, to get the bar out of that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38302	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38303	Thank you, Chairman. I had an amendment to a member of this law called – the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. As the state, primarily the National Bank of Serbia and our governor protect the citizens of Serbia, that is, the users of financial services we saw right in the position of families that have loans indexed in Swiss francs. They were forced to strike hunger to even get a chance to solve their problems. If you open any more serious daily newspapers, you will see on a daily basis at least five or six new notices about the sale of assets to all citizens who could not settle their obligations, and the judicial perpetrators came as one drop at all. The bailiffs have extended the hand of this thieving government. Speaking of thieves, because it's really not nice to show individuals here, if we're talking about thieving, then somewhere else we might be able to replace people. I will return to one item in this amendment that says - in accordance with EU law and regulations. I really don't know how long we'll be on that non-alternative road to the EU. Here, for a little while, we had a great address from the president of the state who is in the EU, who warned us, even asked us to, I would say, to guard our national treasures, our own water, our own mining sites, and I am quite certain that he wanted us to tell us that we are also guarding our own domestic banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38304	Right on line, MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38305	Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply unacceptable this level of address, that, whether they are in power or in opposition, we use such expressions. This does not mean, nor does it speak of whom these words are directed, but it speaks of those who have guided them. It is no problem that SNS MPs respond in the same way. Not great wisdom, mind to use hard words, especially in the lack of arguments regarding the interpretation of laws. Each of us has been in politics too long and each of us is going through different stages, but the personal culture and the matter of dignity is that you respect your political opponent. It is no problem for us to compromise on the amendments, to pollinate the economic situation in Serbia, to wait for the election results when they come, to see whatever they may be, but it certainly seems to me, for this House, that we are inadmissible to use such expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38306	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38307	Dear chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected viewers in front of small screens, I advertise Article 107. I ask the chairman to remind everyone in this temple of the congregation, literally everyone, and me, normally, if I break it, of every harsh word that doesn't fit. We should root out those harsh or too strong words. There's no need to use words here like liars, thieves, thieves, etc. Let us understand that many families see us in the presence of their grandchildren, children, and I would appeal to you, that you, as chairman, do not give notice, but in some way interrupt them or return them to what is like every MP, which is a good and rich Serbian dictionary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38308	Comrade Karic, these terms used here in the National Assembly are the result of two things – lack of education, on the one hand, and, for the politician, a very serious problem, lack of arguments. Then this political impotence uses expressions like this, and I don't mind joining you in saying it's very ugly, but I can't tell you when any of the MPs are going to do something like that and I'm making sure that the discussions of the MPs are held at least in some standard of good taste. Now, what can I do? Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? ( Dragomir Karic: No. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38309	Thank you, Chairman. I apologize for using maybe too much of a word. I promise to use the perpetrators of the crime of theft in the future, and I think it certainly comes down to the same, that thieving should be rooted out, no matter where he is present. I thank you for your understanding. I'll be more specific in the future. I promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38310	I hope that we will continue the session of the Assembly without offending each other. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Governor with associates, yes, the language is sometimes cut more than the sword, and only those who feel hurt then should remember what they said and those who sit on the other side, but I should talk about the amendment. So if I were to now express my suspicion that anyone was reading this amendment, I think you'd be right. When I say anyone, I don't mean fellow MPs. Surely there are those who are trying to overcome at a short time interval that we have been given material to master, but I mean those who should have looked at the bill, but since the member at which I submitted the amendment is quite long, and it is true that only one word was entered in that amendment, and that one word is "determined", therefore - certain financial services, I was in those periods when I was able to listen very carefully to what my colleagues were saying yesterday, they talked about factories and something that had nothing to do with this law, and again I am trying to talk about some of the services that banks use to actually rob people. I'm an entrepreneur, I've got my own office, and I've got some dealings with banks, and then it happens that I hand over five virtuals, that three go by, two don't go through, and I hand them over, same handwritten, that's some kind of service. Well, then, I pay for the billing every month. I don't know what they're up to, whether they're watering, watering, cutting, processing, cutting, what they're doing with my account? Then the only time I need a favor from those same banks, I have to pay for the annual traffic report.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38312	I thank my colleague Vesovic. The People's MP Srdjan Nogo submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, buddy Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38313	The protection of the users of banking services is also necessary. I have an internal note, a report by the Department for the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, the Supervisory Authority for Financial Institutions provided to the Governor and the Supervisory Authority and the Bank's Business Control Sector, which is how this report, from 1 January to 30 September 2015, shows that 25 banks reported 11965 complaints for the nine months, and that banks acted during that period of 12,420 objections, which is 15% increase compared to 2014 and 40% compared to 2013. Every year we have an increase in complaints from bank service users and these are exact data, these are data, official NBS data, because these are the internal NBS documents. So, and how we need to protect the users of banking services. I would also refer to the debate we had yesterday, where one esteemed colleague from one called the leftist party, who has been fighting for social rights, and in power almost all these thirty years, with everyone in the coalition, said that according to the Law on Bonds, the currency clause has been allowed since 1982 or 1984. I would remind him that his party was in power in 1993 when the ZOO was changed and when Article 396 was deleted and why it was done if it was a possible currency clause and I would refer to that there is a head of monetary nominalism provided for in Article 394 of this Act, but the principle of security and honesty, Article 12. The ZOO, then the principle of equal value of mutual contributions, Article 15, as well as Article 1065. A zoo that recognizes banks' interest rights and capitals. Let's reverse the situation. Imagine that a different situation, that the NBS says one dinar is equal to one euro or one Swiss franc within a month to limit it. Now all citizens come and pay the banks 40,000 euros or Swiss in dinars, 40,000 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38314	Thank you, colleague Nogo. (Srdian Nogo: I can't finish the sentence, what kind of way is that? I respect the Rules of Procedure. You give two or three seconds to everyone. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. The word has a governor, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38315	Only one information for the public, NBS i.e. The Centre for the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, i.e. now the sector, publishes three months of reports mentioned by the fellow MP as internal ones. It's not true. Reports are public, located on the NBS website in the user protection sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38316	Now you know why I insist on every second, so you don't get yourself in any more trouble. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38317	Respected citizens of Serbia, what is certain when you are in trouble with bank thieves in this country, will certainly not protect you from Yorvanka Tabakovic and, as far as that goes, you can be absolutely sure. What the key question here is why we are making these amendments is because after six years as governor of the NBS, someone remembered that banks are actually robbing Serbian citizens and that financial service users should be protected. What about all the robberies from the past six years, who's gonna answer for that? Who will make up for the citizens all that the banks robbed while Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic did her hairstyle or received 5,000 euros a month? So this is where you put...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38318	Mr. Beard, I give you a warning. (Bosko Obradovic: For what? You know very well why. (Bosko Obradovic: I don't know, you have to explain. I can accept that you mention pay, but hairstyles and other things, behave. Finally, behave and start talking about the amendment, not everything that comes to your mind. You've got 30 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38319	Mr. Chairman, it is clear to you that we will not stop telling the truth about your thieving and criminal authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38320	I give you a second warning. You've got 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38321	Thank you. You stole my time for my speech and...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38322	I didn't steal anything from you, I take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38323	Thank you. This shows what your authority is like.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38324	National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) colleague Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38325	In Article 2 paragraph 1, we are changing certain parts, point 1 reads – The distance contract means a contract whereby one Contracting Party, a financial service provider, undertakes to provide financial services which are the subject of a contract to the other Contracting Party, the user of those services, and in connection with which the provision of information and take-up of other activities in the pre-contractual phase, i.e. the conclusion of this contract is carried out exclusively by means of means of communication. So, we insisted that there be "separate communication" here, that it stands "exclusively using means of communication at a distance" rather than "or some other means of communication", because it further confuses and does not explain. Let's just say, we won't really know if we're in debt with that long-distance contract, like in all these laws that go on, the new 225m euros. These are all loans and we are really interested in future work, are we going to be able to borrow more easily, i.e. borrowing Serbian citizens from always new and new 225m euros, which we could not talk about in the budget, are we now taking them according to points to which we will not reach and all loan contracts from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development? For this reason, we felt it was very important to stand “exclusively using means of communication at a distance” and to be a little more precise as to which type of contract can be verified and whether loans, as such, participate in that type of contract at a distance. I'd like you to explain it to me, or is it done in some other way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38326	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38327	Here, we attend the absurds. A string of absurds is here in front of us. First of all, we have a law here that essentially protects users of financial services when it comes to banks, when it comes to insurance companies, licking companies, etc., and we have recently had one example that has brought us all back to reality in a conditional dispute between citizens and banks that charge their commission to provide services, which is against the law and against all European and other norms. The governor of the NBS called and said the bank has its discretionary right to take into agreement with the client the percentage that is proportional to the amount of the loan. What happened? The courts that made the decisions, contrary to the position expressed by the governor, have literally begun to reconsider that decision already made, in order to be in line with the opinion of the non-binding Governor. Now you have a perfectly clear situation. If the citizens of this country are in conflict with the law, i.e. with the governor and the NBS, the governor and the NBS are right and there are no dilemmas, the law is put outside, but what the governor and the NBS say. Another absurd, who here guarantees that he will be compensated and protected by any information from the users of financial services? Well, we have another absurd here. This is the party that Meko Omerovic has sat down for days, not a single word to say about his crime and thieving. He's sitting here with the coalition. He was elected on the list where the coalition is, so none of those representatives of the coalition to come out and say, "We're building people, it's a disgrace, it's a humiliation to this country." So, what's this all about? So how do we believe that the National Bank will protect anything when it comes to foreign banks, or foreign insurance companies?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38328	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A proposal for this law relating to the protection of users of financial services. No matter how many laws we pass in this House that allegedly protect users of various services, I am sure they will not help ordinary citizens, ordinary people, but even, on the contrary, to complicate their everyday life. Even if it did happen to benefit from these laws, citizens face daily payments of various municipal accounts and other things, where he simply cannot understand what it is. Today, no one in Serbia, or even the biggest experts, can break the formula by which the price of one kilowatt of electricity is calculated, the formula by which the price of one cubic metre of water is determined, and not to list all those other services. So no matter what you pass these laws, nothing will help the citizens of Serbia. I don't think it could have been better for this ruling majority, this congregation majority, to think about who supports everything and who makes this ruling majority. This scandal that took place at the Frankfurt airport, where Meho Omerovic literally stole some goods and did not pay for it, and none of the ruling majority came forward to condemn it, except for members of the SRS, indeed, is something unheard of and something should be done on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38330	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, we have requested that Article 2 paragraph 1 of the fourth indent 3. The bill deletes, because we believe that defining terms only burdens the legal text needlessly and that those who interpret and apply this law are perfectly aware of the meaning of the terms used, while in your opinion, which is shown in the reasons for not accepting the amendments, you say otherwise. What is controversial in Article 2 is, says – a second legal or natural person providing financial services in the Republic of Serbia in accordance with EU law and regulations. So, again, we have to prescribe EU regulations and, directly, without any alignment with domestic regulations, declare them valid, regardless of their applicability in Serbian legislation. What happens if our law does not define such legal persons as are defined by EU regulations and laws, or what happens in cases where the EU has such persons, financial service providers and there is no Serbian legislation? That's why we think that certain legal provisions, not only prescribe, are you not looking at their applicability in Serbian legislation at all. In the end, I would ask the chairman – is it true that Meho Omerovic resigned as a MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38332	National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. My colleague Ristic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38333	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said on a few occasions, by introducing this law, nothing fundamentally changed for the user, because it will continue to be applied to all those points of the existing law of March 2015. The only change actually refers to an electronic signature, which is only imposed as logical, but remains unclear why it was introduced that this signature is not necessary for contracts worth up to 600,000 dinars. This amount is not small at all, especially in Serbia. Someone's been working for almost two years for this money. According to that logic, it should be introduced that any contracts to this sum are not signed. Can you imagine that? You go to the bank, you raise a loan of 600,000 dinars, they show the contract, you show them your ID card, and that's it. You can't imagine. Today, when almost everyone has your data, your home number, the ID number, the address, can now abuse them in this way, and it's going to happen massively, you'll see. Our society is just like that. A con man and a thief don't need your ID anymore, they don't have to steal it, they just need the data. You made it possible by this law. You cannot understand that we are not in the EU, that there are systems of protection and the very consciousness of society at the second level and that the situation is not yet mature for such changes. Well, when MPs steal change, with a salary of 100,000 dinars, what do you expect from someone who works for 24? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38334	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38335	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in your opening statement, and regarding the proposal for a law under the jurisdiction of the NBS, you insisted on two things - that you were working in the interests of the Serbian citizens and that you said you were achieving the best results. Do you, Mrs Tabakovic, think what you are doing is in the interest of the Serbian citizens and is that the best you know? If you really think that this is the case, then you need to be reassured by the fact that Serbian citizens are getting harder and harder to live, that is, from day to day, so that Serbian citizens are exposed to harsh banking conditions, through which banks make huge profits, which, of course, make the same profit in their country of origin as income, and this is a figure of 500m euros, for example, for 2017. As governor of the National Bank, how do you view this figure earned in a country of poor citizens? Why don't you protect your citizens on this point, and you yourself said that you work in the interest of the citizens and that your best results are? If the best results are the governor of the National Bank so far, why is Serbia the lowest standard. In 2012, you were appointed governor of the NBS. Then you had to reform and arrest, first of all, Dinkic, Vlahovic, Pitic and all those who are your right hand and where they can be seen in all financial forums, both in Serbia and abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38336	The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38337	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. Our intention was to avoid burdening the bill, so the amendment proposed that, in the first position, which refers to the definition of terms, paragraph 4) of the indent 7 be deleted. The SRS parliamentary group believes that defining the terms of the law is unnecessary. The explanation for this amendment is a logical trail of reasons for the previous amendments that I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, so in this sense our criticism concerns the desire of the authorities in Serbia to bring our laws in line with EU legislation. There are many reasons why Serbia should not go on the road to the EU. Serbia will not be in the EU soon, messages that are permanent and sent from the EU and sent by European officials. That is what the President of France at the EU Summit – the Western Balkans, which was held in Sofia, and we hope that the representatives of the authorities in Serbia are aware that the influence of France in the EU should not be ignored. The Serbian Radical Party will repeatedly repeat that Serbia's path should not be towards the EU, but exclusively towards the Russian Federation, because it is of interest to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens and businesses. In the habit of Mehe Omerovic and in the future nothing will change. Despite everything that's happened, a man gets in, comes out, turns around, doesn't come back, and then when he gets down, there's diplomatic passports, interventions and a disgrace for the Serbian parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38338	National MP Bozidar Djelic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38339	Thank you. Here's the thing: We have five laws, financial laws, and two government proposals that we need to do in two days' time. So, we got the material on Monday, and we were supposed to be working from Wednesday. Mrs. Governor, when she spoke about these laws in the opening statement, she said it took her two years, but for two years, with certain forums, some of her professional associates, professional associations, etc., interested persons, public debates, would pass and prepare this law. I ask her now – how can she, if she knows that the law is passed on behalf of the people, at least ask the people, because we are representatives of the people here, right? We 250 are representatives of the people. Who was she asking, and who is here to prevent the law from being passed besides us, that people? So, this is a single insubordination of democracy, the public, the people, etc. That's one. Two, let me just ask her - where did she see this world and those citizens who live so well, how did her associates, her fellow Members, her, how can I say, friends and friends from the Progressive Party, from your coalition, these days so praised and wrote everything in the form of some essays? You've written everything, you've read it well, especially this woman part, which I respect and greet, but you don't have to wear that much, get carried away and write. I felt like I was somewhere in nature, or now all the sparrows are gonna shut me up. So it's not true and it's not true. The people live badly, the standard is nothing. These five laws she's passed now in the Assembly, believe me, she could have done the third day of her term. It's that simple, it's that simple. So, for six years she knew, before she came to the governor's seat...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38340	Please, colleague Vukajlovic, address with respect at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38341	So, with respect, believe me, with respect and you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38342	So, in the first person of the one is not respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38343	Please, the governor knew before 2012 how the financial system in our country worked, the governor knew perfectly, because he was always sneering at that function and the governor, while he was in the SRS, and he knew he was criticising Jelasic, the previous governor, and he knew he was criticising Vlahovic, and he knew he was criticising Dinkic, so that he would take all these people as his first associates. How do you think we as citizens look and turn in our stomachs while watching her and the same people laugh? Don't you, the chairman, laugh because it's very ugly, because you're laughing at the people, you're laughing at the citizens, you're not laughing at me. Thank you. (Serb Radical Party emissaries earn. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38344	I don't have the authority of your parliamentary group president to interrupt your colleagues after a second minute, they've wasted the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38345	Ladies and gentlemen, I am staying with the amendment, and instead of reason, I suggest that a new Rules of Procedure be adopted as soon as possible on the work of the National Assembly. It is pointless for five laws to be held in one debate either on one law, or on one member of a law, or on two members of two laws. Therefore, the right of Members of the People has been compromised, as a fundamental participatory principle. It is pointless to schedule a session to discuss amendments if, under these amendments, any MP who has submitted the amendment cannot explain it during a period of time which is reasonably possible to explain and present it. That's why my proposal is that this Rules of Procedure must be changed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38346	I remember those fifteen minutes and minutes and 27 seconds. That's how many times I've explained the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38347	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, brothers and sisters, even though we could assume that a law like this might be necessary, not to all citizens of Serbia, there are a number of citizens who would really like to market, pay, take credit, but what you have proposed and define as a natural person, what an entrepreneur, what a farmer is, I think it's completely pointless. It would have been much better if you had arranged some other things by this law, not by defining what it could be like to be a farmer or a family owner. However, this law is also conditional. In Article 2, you explain that some of the provisions of this law will only apply once Serbia joins the EU. What, most likely and completely certain that it will never enter the EU, will this law, provisions or relations created under this law be void? It's something that comes from the nature of the obligation. Yesterday, Mr. Mijatovic said the case in Germany happened at Frankfurt airport. There's been a case, and he's probably embarrassed too. Now I'm not getting into it, undeniably, so the theft was there, Meso did it, I'm interested now in what happened, he had to go back to Belgrade, land there, and if there was any theft there, so I'd ask these in the fridge to make a list so they'd have that in mind and when Mehe Omerovic's problem was solved that we had everything in mind and that the problem was completely solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38348	You can do better than that, colleague Peric. What do you say? I'm saying he's known that before and better. I don't know what's wrong with him today, no inspiration. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 2 of this proposal, the law has defined and explained some of the terms contained in the very text of the law, and perhaps for these reasons this is one of the longest and most massive members of the law, of the 29, how many laws there are. With my amendment, I asked to delete item 1 of point 6 of this bill. We saw in the text of the law that the public debate on this law ran from December 7th 2015 to December 21st of the same year, where both citizens and professional public and financial institutions and all interested had the opportunity to get acquainted with the draft of this law, which is good. But then, in an explanation of the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, you stated that the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the EU and that of the EU rules, regulation of laws, the country's system, introduce order, but not mere membership in the EU. Here I have to join my colleagues and once again in condemning the shameful act done by MP Meho Omerovic, stealing perfumes, and embarrassing Serbia and embarrassing all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38350	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Milojevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38351	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honored Governor Tabaković, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 2. I propose that Law 2 be added – the basic concepts and the implementation of this law provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the improvement of the private sector. This amendment introduces the improvement of the private sector as one of the main guidelines that should guide the concepts defined by this law. We are aware of the trend in modernising and digitising society, especially the fact that this development felt in the financial sector. From year to year, the number of transactions carried out via computers or mobile phones is increasing. The volume of business via the Internet is slowly taking a key place in many financial transactions. All this brings many abuses and machinations. The proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services at a distance similar and better determines this matter. Since a lot of people are just beginning to deal with this kind of financial business, that a lot of those who are not directed enough to function this way of paying, there is a legitimate risk that the user is damaged or, more simply, selects one of the options he did not want, or does not meet his needs. This law introduces special protection covering both farmers and entrepreneurs, and this is particularly important to highlight. I cannot say on this occasion that in these six years, Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic's term of office, the National Bank of Serbia has made great progress in the preservation and progress of fiscal policy and the entire financial rating of our country. So, surely, the great merits that are constantly seen in the development of electronic business go to their address. We hope that the years to come will bring even greater prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38352	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Parezenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38353	Thank you. Dear Governor, dear colleagues, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to address you, Mrs Tabakovic, because I want to express my opinion on the work of the National Bank and to highlight a very important role that the National Bank of Serbia played in the economic recovery of our country. There are various economic ideologies, various political and economic doctrines and perceptions, but practically everything implies that monetary stability is necessary for the economic empowerment of a country. When I say monetary stability, of course, I mean a low and predictable rate of inflation and trust in the national currency. This is something that is the basic task of the National Bank of Serbia and I think that you have achieved this goal and thus made it possible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President to attract foreign investors in this more stable environment, to create new jobs and reduce unemployment. As you know, it wasn't always like that. Before 2012, we had a strong decline in national currency, an extremely high inflation that also meant rising prices for citizens' daily needs and all of this combined with strong national currency depression brought about a major decline in living standards. In such an unstable environment, not only have foreign investors not been willing to come to our country, but they have been leaving too, and that condition has made it to an extremely high unemployment rate. Also, domestic capital was still at stake, as citizens did not have the courage to invest in such a unstable environment, which is devastating for money flows, for the financial market, because then there is not enough money in the market to create new jobs and that only means deepening the crisis. So I think it's very important that the National Bank of Serbia has regained its reputation, and that's not just me, that's what many relevant international institutions say, many prominent economic magazines that have marked a dinar for one of the best currencies in the previous year. There were also a lot of words about loans indexed in the Swiss francs and what I have to repeat is the fact that Jorgenka Tabakovic was not the governor of the National Bank at the time these loans were taken, nor was the SNS in power. The Democratic Party, a former regime in which Dragan Djilas was also the largest financeman of my Chacan counterpart Boška Obradovic, who at the time received 50,000 euros from the public company Kolubara for printing his magazine, who received a lot of money from the city budget, from then-dominated leader of New Serbia Velimir Ilic, and at that time did not think of anything to say against the banking system in Serbia, to criticise those loans, and that is logical, because if he did, then Dragan Dilas would not have given him the money. But, of course, it's clear to all of us that he's not too burdened with the problem of all these families. He's a practical man. You may not know him well, I know him well. He made a simple calculation -- if Serbia has 39,000 families with the problem, and each family has two to three voters, it is somewhere around 100,000 voters. You know what 100,000 voters mean to a 2% party? Well, it could mean a potential censorship, and then the censorship also means new money from Serbia's budget, which he also fictitiously counts...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38354	Let's get a little bit of the amendment, Comrade Parezanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38355	... through fictitious accounts and through phantom companies from Borca, owned by their councillors, laundering by making multimillion-dollar bills for electrical works, repairing computers, and then sequencingly taking that money out in cash and putting it in their pockets. It's the essence of their functioning. What I want to say in the end, I am sure that the National Bank of Serbia, as far as it is in its power, will help all those citizens who have this problem, but I am even more sure that neither you, nor anyone in the SNS, has made it possible for those families, but have already done so by representatives of the former regime, who pushed those families into such loans ten years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38356	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Pavlovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38357	I have no reason to defend any authority, because I belong to the order of those, like all other citizens of Serbia, who all this time, while others were ruling, had to trap the authorities to get over and do their job. However, I would have to remind my colleague that for people who have now turned 18 and who voted for the first time, you are the same government. So people who are now 18 years old weren't interested in power 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38358	My colleague, you're replicating, don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38359	Please, just one thing, and they will remember the fact that most young people have left the country during this reign. I think that's it, is that your greatest success in this government?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38360	I give you a warning, colleague Pavlovic. The People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Manojlović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38361	Thank you, Chairman. To Article 2. I have submitted an amendment to the bill, with a desire to highlight the importance of implementing its provisions on the strengthening of economic resources. Yesterday during the first amendment, I mentioned that this law would further protect the users of banking services, where I mentioned farmers and entrepreneurs, but here I would like to add that other users will be protected, i.e. users of all financial institutions, including those not controlled by the National Bank of Serbia, including investment societies and funds. The law will not only protect it, it will make financial services widely available. And just to remind you, you know how the government used to do it by 2012 – it applied only one of their own principles, protecting users of financial services in the distance, and in principle – take the money from the state and run as far away as possible, and we will protect you. So I'd like to take the opportunity to congratulate them today, although I can see that there are none of these opposition people on this side of the hall here, to congratulate them, some call it party president, I'd like to congratulate them on the recently elected bankruptcy manager. For the sake of Serbian citizens, it is good to see that today when we are discussing, and this is not the first time that happens in the Assembly Hall, about a very important law, when we talk about consumer protection, which everyone here allegedly is diving some crocodile tears, here, none of them are in the O.R. today. Again, they gave themselves a place to be animated and used by any of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to draw from it some cheap political points, animated by social networks, etc. The important thing is they're getting paid by this assembly, and they should be doing their job, which they're being paid for here. But to get back to those important things. If we take into account the importance of the physical presence of financial service providers as a parameter of this law, and that these providers are obliged to publish clear, relevant information, it will create greater or perhaps more pronounced competition on the market, which will result, among other things, in the need to create even more favourable conditions for the end-user. Financial service users will be, in a jargon, on a click away from the bank, saving at the very least the time needed to physically go to the bank. Of course, to increase the number of users in the electronic banking sector, it will also require training from these people, i.e. will lead to a better and better workforce, as their level of education will be raised to a much higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38362	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucky, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38363	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the honourable fellow MPs, today we are talking about a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote bargaining. It is Article 2, which we are talking about, in paragraph 1, defines a distance contract in a very large way, I would say, a correct way, where it is said that the distance contract marks a contract that one party contracted, which is the provider of a financial service, undertakes to provide financial services that are the subject of a contract to the other Contracting Party, or to the user of those services, and in connection with which the provision of information and the take-up of other activities in the pre-contractual phase, i.e. the conclusion of this contract, shall be carried out exclusively by using one or more means of communication at a distance, in the context of an organised supply of these services. Why does this matter? Because in this era of modern communication, in the era of Internet communication and electronic business, it is necessary to effectively establish and legally define this type of contract. This isn't the first time we've done this, it's not just in our country. This experience in terms of electronic remote bargaining has already been applied in highly developed countries, and for these reasons I absolutely support the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38364	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Petkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38365	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 to add Article 2. First of all, I want to express a great respect for the efforts and work of the National Bank of Serbia headed by Mrs Tabakovic, for a situation which we have not had in recent history to see, that this is how we have a stable monetary policy and a stable local currency, i.e.. a national currency, where we can be envied by much better-organised countries of Europe. What I particularly wanted to point out is that one of the priorities of the government is to improve information technologies. Today, in today's society, we have a situation to apply such a way to the economy a great deal, and now we have a situation to apply it to agriculture, but especially what improves the situation is with the citizens themselves. When I say citizens, I mean today's remote bargaining opportunities, transfer of funds through various applications and information technologies, mobile phones, where we can literally from our households solve the most important things about monetary transactions, for payments, where we are thus reducing time and making it easier for citizens to carry out their transactions. For this reason, I believe that this law should certainly be supported and that, in the day of the vote, you should also support amendments of Members of Parliament and the law in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38366	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Members of the Ognjanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38367	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed governor with co-workers, last year listening to Prime Minister Brnabic's exposé, we had the opportunity to hear that fiscal stability, digitisation, almost in all areas, fiscal discipline, deficit reduction, are key to establishing order and sustainable growth, i.e. key to speeding up economic development. In the previous period, the NBS measures minimised all negative effects and impacts and improved living standards of citizens. This bill places the beneficiary of financial services in a more favourable position. By increasing legal protection, increasing information and reducing costs, trust in the bank is increased and affects the number of users. Article 2 defines the specific concepts contained in the law, including the means of communication, to include all technological innovations in the future, which includes the modernisation process. How the opening of new, more favourable offers with reduced business and funding bargaining costs shows that the NBS is holding a growth course, because it attracts any kind of investment that directly leads to labour market growth and a rise in living standards, so it is quite certain that, with the support of the government and the great commitment of our governor, it will continue with the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38368	Thank you. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38369	Dear Chairman, the respected Governor Tabakovic with his associates, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, which reads: "The basic concepts and implementation of this law ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to growth of the economy". It is important to highlight the protection that the bill provides in all stages of the treaty, which has a significant impact on strengthening legal certainty. In addition to the physical face, however, it is also unquestionable to have a very professional effect on the economy itself. The bill applies to farmers, entrepreneurs, and their rights and interests are protected in the same way as when it comes to natural persons. As providers of financial bargaining services, small and medium-sized enterprises will not have any additional costs. It is therefore important to point out that the bill will not create additional expenditure for neither natural persons nor businesses or businesses, and it is envisaged that small and medium-sized enterprises will have indirect benefits, as the bill indirectly supports the work of these operators. In view of the level of protection of rights and interests achieved by this bill, the business environment receives a high degree of legal certainty, which in practice proved to be a significant incentive for business. In addition to legal certainty, the bill strengthens trust in this type of business and thus contributes to greater competitiveness on the market and ensures that all service providers have equal access to clients. With all this in mind, I believe that it is particularly important to highlight the effect that the proposal for a law on the protection of financial services in the distance of products, on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the effect it produces on the economy. That is exactly the objective of the amendment that I am proposing, thereby further defining the bill. In voting day, I hope my colleagues accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38370	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38371	I thank the chairman. Honored Governor with Associates, Honored Fellows, to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, I submit an amendment and propose to add attitude 2 to the basic concepts and implementation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rule of law. The basic concepts defined by the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in relation to distance contracts, are defined by the application of the provisions and the EU Directive 2002/65, which contributes to the overall development of our country on the road to the EU. Since the Directive is a consumer and aims to bring national alignment forward, the same aims to bring national rules on marketing into line, at the distance of financial services for consumers. The adoption of this law should increase consumer confidence in the application of new techniques, such as electronic trade. By defining the concept of a distance contract, such as contracts where the offer, negotiation and conclusion have been carried out remotely using means of communication at a distance, which are used as part of a distance sale or service programme, it is concluded that the conclusion of the signed contracts does not require the presence of service providers and consumers at the same time, as defined by the preamble of 15 of the said Directive. How this basic concept is defined equally in all other modern countries of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38372	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mitrovica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38373	Dear Mr. Arsic, dear Governor Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. In Article 2. Paragraph 2 is added to the draft law and the amendment further defines Article 2 of this Act. In Article 2. The draft law defines the meaning of certain concepts. The most significant among them are the distance financial services contract, the financial service provider, the financial service user, the means of communication and the permanent data carrier. The main objectives of lawmaking are to improve the rights of users of financial services and to further protect those users, and to clarify certain practical issues in remote bargaining, as well as to bring domestic legislation into line with EU law. The law first and foremost regulates the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, while ensuring a higher level of protection of the rights and interests of those users. In addition to natural persons, in a narrow sense, the law applies to farmers and entrepreneurs, as it is estimated that these entities should also enjoy the same degree of protection of rights and interests in remote bargaining, since the general level of their financial knowledge is not at the level of companies which, as a rule, have greater material resources and expertise than those persons. He calls on fellow MPs to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38374	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Birmanevich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38375	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed governor, the honourable MPs, the respected citizens, the amendment I have submitted is simply to make this work that this law achieves clear and direction towards improving regional development, regional co-operation, because all the procedures and all the measures taken in previous years in both the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have just been directed towards the development of the region and its integration. The provision of financial services at a distance is certainly beyond the necessary measure, but what would be significant is what I want to point to the governor, it is precisely to strengthen the control, the control of these financial flows itself, because I am coming from the town of Šapca where, where Vuk Jeremic started his election campaign, and we know that he was just from the Katar embassy, from Vienna he was paid a donation. It is a kind of business, but what's significant is that we try to get right from the level of NBS, from the level of the MUP, and everyone in their domain prevents, first of all, money laundering and prevents abuse. If I tell you that their campaign was launched by Vuk Jeremic in Sapac, Gilas as mayoral candidate begins his campaign. Last week they had a sad gathering, more like a memorial than that of the opposition, but I want to tell you that these cash flows that are financed by this opposition and which probably inherited its financial assets, which they had before 2012, must also come into the focus of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions that monitor cash flows. What I would say for the end, it is only to continue to work as you have done so far, either by grandmother or by uncles, but honestly and in accordance with the law and you will continue to have the support of our parliamentary majority, but also by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38376	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tanja Tomaševic Damnjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38377	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Governor with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to be in Article 2. The draft law adds Article 2 and with a view to further defining Article 2. It's a bill of law. The protection of users of financial services in remote contracts is adapted to the use of financial services through modern information and technology means such as the Internet and mobile phones, all in line with best international practice. In 2017, the number of users in Serbia, who made payments via the Internet, reached almost two million users, while the number of those who made the mobile payments for the first time crossed the number of one million. Protection relates not only to services provided by NBS institutions, but also to other participants in the capital market such as investment funds and funds. The distance agreement, financial services users, allows access to the widest range of financial services available on the domestic financial market, regardless of their place of residence and how far the nearest exposure of the financial institution is. The obligations of the service providers and the rights of the users of these services in remote contracts are clearly and unequivocally governed by this bill, which will contribute to strengthening the confidence of users in the application of modern bargaining techniques such as electronic trade and electronic and mobile banking, and thus indirectly and indirectly to the overall demand for financial services, but also to lower their costs. The Serbian Progressive Party will be pleased to support all these bill proposals in a voting day. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38378	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38379	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Governor, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the digitisation of society in the financial sector is developing very quickly, so it is a very real need to protect users who are not physically present at the moment when they are given information or when they conclude contracts. The obligation of the financial institution is to provide the user with clear and relevant information, which will encourage many to start using electronic financial services. With all due respect to all those who are already very unobstructed by electronic banking, many people are skeptical and dared not start using online trade. The most important item is to know that you are protected. The second item is to learn about the way you can easily and quickly carry out your transactions at less cost, without waiting in ranks and without the cost of going to a place where an institution has its own facility. These services would most benefit our oldest citizens. I hope some associations will realize they're organizing financial literacy training. The Ministry of Education organizes such training for our youngsters and that is very useful. As for the economy in Serbia, the economy has benefited significantly and saved since responsible economic policy was conducted, what is the cost of saving exporters only on the exchange rate differences that existed until 2012. How stable an investment environment means for the economy is clearly said by renowned companies that have come to work in Serbia. One Indian company, Taffe, is now operating on our market. The success of the domestic economy affects the quality of life of all of us, so we are very grateful for the efforts made by the National Bank of Serbia and we thank you for that. We will certainly uphold the laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38380	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, acting unanimously. Paragraphs 27 and 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The National MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic Pavlovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38381	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I suggest that in Article 2. The bill adds Article 2 which reads – the basic concepts and implementation of this law provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the improvement of medical institutions, thereby further defining Article 2 of the Law proposal. The National Bank of Serbia has played a very important role in the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia over the past six years, through the accession process and through the accession process. By participating in the work of 11 of the 35 negotiating groups, the National Bank of Serbia includes the number of areas for which the authority has played the role of one of the leading institutions in the negotiations of the Republic of Serbia with the European Union. In the process of Eurointegration, the National Bank of Serbia handles the negotiating group 17 – economic and monetary issues, which includes representatives of 12 state institutions. The National Bank of Serbia's negotiating group prepared a proposal for a negotiating position for Chapter 17, adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia in March 2018. Within the negotiating group, nine -- financial services run by the National Bank of Serbia, with a strong push, professionalism and the effort of all members of the negotiating group, a proposal for a negotiating position has been drawn up. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a negotiating position for Chapter 9 on 12 October 2017 and delivered the Secretariat of the Council of the European Union on 16 October 2017, with the quality of this document confirmed in the consultation process with the European Commission, in which there were no additional comments. With such a responsible policy by the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, conditions have been created for continuing investment in medical institutions, thanks to which more has been invested in Serbia's health in the past four years than in the past few decades. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill's proposals in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38382	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38383	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 2 have defined the concepts used in the law, a detailed explanation has also given a review of the concepts necessary in creating such a legal solution in the era of digitisation and the application of modern technologies in business. The amendment puts forward the importance of the implementation of this law for all areas that are important in the management of daily life activities for all citizens, especially through the consideration of modern, simple and safe solutions, acting today when information communication technologies are used, and it is clear that there is a great role and importance and telecommunications traffic. Because how do we define traffic as simple? Like the transfer of goods, the transport of people and the transfer of information from point A to point B, and taking care of safety first. It is important here to note that the means of communication is, as is given in the Bill's proposal, any means that can be used for direct advertising, the provision of information at the pre-contractual stage, the provision and/or acceptance of offers, the negotiation and conclusion of contracts without the simultaneous physical presence of service providers and users, e.g. via internet, e-mail, mail, fax and phone. So, here we come to a point where we recognize the importance of postal and telecommunications traffic, especially taking care of the well-developed network, of a stable network, of quality infrastructure elements, of well-trained personnel, who will be responsible for the good and secure provision of services to users, and of service providers and their business. Here with full rights can be talked about stability, quality, professional and responsible personnel, as the responsible leadership acts by coming to the power of the SNS, because every smaller continent in the Republic of Serbia in each segment will be getting better results, I am sure, if it acts as led by President Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, as a co-ordinated continent in the state of the Republic of Serbia, which has its own discipline and which precisely because of such action is recorded by growth, development and in which the quality of life of citizens is enabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38384	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Zeleg, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38385	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, to Article 2. I submitted the amendment to the law on the protection of customers of financial services in the distance contract and added attitude 2 to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the state administration, through basic concepts and implementation of the law. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the SNS, has put ahead a priority in terms of improving the use of information and communication technologies in all areas, and above all in the area of economy and state administration. The adoption of this law and its application would further facilitate the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia, and the job of the state administration is reflected in the creation of faster and more efficient investment procedures for our country's economy, resulting in continued economic growth and production, as well as the creation of new jobs, which is one of the main political objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed law comprehensively and specifically regulates the protection of financial services in remote contracts, while ensuring a higher level of protection of the rights and interests of the users of the financial services concerned. It is also created by foreign investors the main precondition for stability and trust in the financial system and thus further attracts new investments and ensures the development of already realised, as well as investments that are under way. We owe the highest gratitude in achieving the stability of monetary policy and the stability of the financial system to the National Bank of Serbia and the Governor. In order to continue to conduct such a responsible policy of interest for citizens and the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, I call on fellow Members to support the proposed amendment in the voting day, as well as the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38386	Thank you. National MP Milan Krivokapic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krivokapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38387	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted Amendment 2 to Article 2 of this Act, which adds Section 2. It reads: "The basic concepts and implementation of this law provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities." The need to further regulate the provision of financial services, above all, conditioned general technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life, as well as the development of new ways to offer and advertise financial services. Bringing the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in Remote Contracts would contribute to the use of information and communication technologies in the field of financial services, which is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, shorter digitisation in all areas. We know that by law, the National Bank of Serbia aims to maintain the country's price and financial stability. In its business, the National Bank of Serbia part of its activities involves protecting clients, first through strengthening fair relations with clients, and then through adequate information of clients during all phases of the contract, as well as before the conclusion of the contract. This bill sets out a more equal relationship between banks, as service providers, because the bank is one of the agreed parties that is certainly in a more favourable position, because it has more knowledge and a better position and therefore we need to support a law that will contribute to the education of clients and their introduction to the market. If we do business seriously, and SNS does every job extremely seriously, then we cannot tolerate the situations that were happening on the market, as during previous authorities, such as hidden costs and other ocular actions, and therefore we will also support this law and other laws that will define the provisions so that we all know what the rules of the game are. We can freely say that this law is of great importance, both for citizens and for potential investors and creditors, which is a positive result of the overall development of the state itself and certainly undeveloped municipalities. In view of all the above, I must stress that Article 2 paragraph 1 sets out in detail the meaning of certain concepts of this law, from service providers to service users, but it is necessary to further define that the basic concepts and realization of this law provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities and therefore, by carefully analysing the points mentioned, I have proposed Amendment 2 to which Article 2 is complemented by Article 2. The Serbian Progressive Party will support a set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38388	By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38389	I am fascinated by the debate on amendments to Article 2 from the very beginning, and I really think that for the sake of the public, if anyone alive has the patience to watch, to follow this reading of the reasons for the amendment. Article 2 The bill's proposals are specific terms, meaning of certain terms, well, then it says here what financial services are, what is a bank, what is a insurance company, what is an investment society, what is a leaser, what is a fund management company, what is a trader in terms of this law, and so on. First of all, as far as we are concerned with the SRS, every time we intervene with the amendments, and we don't think a member like this should exist at all, and that he's just burdening the law, and that he who applies the law normally knows what these terms are. I understand the amendments submitted by the ruling majority MPs, but it is really offensive to say that in detail, it has carefully analysed these terms and has led him to conclude that these basic concepts provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Well, give people a little more serious. So, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and then in relation, and in particular to health care, education, economy, and so on, and so on, but all thanks to the fact that in the bill we have an explanation of what the term means. Indeed, I think that the citizens of Serbia deserve a more serious attitude from the MPs than from the work we do. Of course, all day long and here for three days, no one will even escape, what the ruling coalition will do when it comes to Meho Omerovic and how much longer he will remain an MP and how much will remain the chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights. Yes, Meho Omerovic is the one who stole from the airport. Do you have any problems when you say that? Why? Well, you repeat it all day long, you repeat the same story for days, you develop the state by writing down terms in the bill. Do you think we will all allow you to insult intelligence, and it bothers you to mention that Meho Omerovic was stealing. Well, yes, ask everyone if they got that notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38390	My colleague Radeta, I'd like to ask you about the amendment. Well, I'm talking about the amendment all the time. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tarbuk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38391	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Governor with her associates, respected citizens of Serbia, proposed amendment in Article 2. The proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services by way of a distance settlement, I propose adding attitude 2 to the basic concepts and implementation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the efficiency of local self-government. This law improves the protection of users of financial services using remote communications, such as internet and mail, such as mail, mobile banking, etc. The use of modern means of communication enables payment of the economic policy objectives achieved. This leads to an economic policy that is daily up-to-date, stable and developing economic policy. Using modern technologies is one of the important factors affecting the further development of the financial market. Realisation of the bill gives, encourages already present digitisation in the financial sector and encourages users of the mass administration of these services, modern means of communication, by further protection, which shows that in the last year, the first time the user of mobile applications passed one million in Serbia. Bringing in a set of proposed laws and their realisation will lead to the improvement of our country's society, and hence local self-government. Mrs. Tabakovic, I have been privileged to talk these days about the dinar the Bloomberg Agency has characterised as the second currency in the world with all its financial performances. I have to tell you, I've thought about it in the last hundred years of dinars never had this kind of strength and stability. I think it's one of the great successes that you and the government and the president of the state have managed as a team to bring a dinar to the minority of perfection, which is one of the preconditions that all economic operators in the country and those who want to invest in the state of Serbia take greater participation and thus improve our economic situation and that Serbia is progressing as a state. I am very proud of that, so all my colleagues in voting day ask to support this set of laws, of course, if they have the strength and the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38392	National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38393	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, this amendment is complemented by Article 2 of this proposal for a law. Article 2 of this proposal defines the most important concepts relating to the overall problem. In this connection, the terms of the long-distance, financial services and financial contracts have been defined. As service providers, a bank appears within the meaning of a law governing banks, insurance companies, a voluntary pension fund management company, a leaser, a payment institution, an investment company, a fund management company, a trader within the meaning of a law governing the protection of financial services users, another legal or natural person providing financial services in the Republic of Serbia in accordance with EU law and regulations. As service users, natural persons who use or use financial services on the basis of a distance contract or who have contacted the service provider for the conclusion of that contract and the use of those services, the entrepreneur or the farmer of course shall report to the service provider. The means of communication at a distance is certainly a means that can be used for direct advertising, delivery of information at a pre-contractual stage, giving or accepting offers, negotiating and conclusion of a contract without the simultaneous physical presence of the service provider and the user. In addition to everything defined, it should be stressed that realising the overall process and including all concepts and participants in this process ensure the development of the Republic of Serbia and better access to economic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38394	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38395	Thank you. I welcome the distinguished Mrs. Tabakovic with her associates. In Article 2 of this Act, the terms used in the law are defined. One of the most important is protection in providing financial services remotely. General technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life have contributed to developing new ways of offering and advertising financial services. Therefore, there was a need to further regulate the provision of financial services, above all, to provide them remotely. The value of transactions done on the Internet since 2017 was 20 billion dinars. Special protection shall be required for users not physically present at the time of the provision of information or the conclusion of a contract. Protection covers not only consumers, but farmers and entrepreneurs whose level of efficiency is much lower. In any case, we further encourage digitisation in the financial sector and encourage users to use services more massively through modern means of communication with additional protection. Since my amendment refers to improving health care, I would like to say that health is the basis for effective functioning for both the individual and the community. We promote health care, strengthen it both socially and economically. Health care within the meaning of this law is to achieve the highest possible level of preservation of the health of citizens and families and to improve the health of citizens is the concern of the whole society. We need to cover the implementation of measures and activities. These are the measures of the economy, the social policies that we create conditions for implementing health care, because only a healthy person can be productive. I would say something else when it comes to health, health care, about an electronic prescription that was introduced into health care, which is one newspaper, analogous to what I was saying earlier. An electronic prescription has been used to network the pharmacy, the infirmary and the RFZO. It's for our patients, for their better health care. This is very important for chronic patients. The waiting has been reduced, so in 2017 only 60 million electronic recipes were written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38396	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A respected governor with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, the primary objective of this law is to reduce the risk that the user is not physically present at the time of the provision of information or conclusion of the contract, select the product and commit to a financial institution by a contract that does not meet its needs, which he will regret. NBS Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic has achieved optimal coordination of fiscal and monetary policy that is a necessary condition for economic growth and trust in the state in general. The annual inflation, which was 12.9% in 2012, was realised to fall to 2.2% already in October 2013, as well as to preserve inflation at an average of 1.9% over the previous five years. Maintaining a low inflation environment makes it significantly easier to make decisions by businessmen regarding business planning and investment. Also, conditions have been created to restore trust and increase savings, as well as make it easier for citizens to decide on spending. This also met the precondition for increasing investment, thus producing exports, as well as for employment on sustainable grounds. Using monetary policy measures combined with sound fiscal discipline and austerity measures, conditions were created to increase wages and pensions by achieving a surplus of 8.4 billion dinars concluded with May 31st. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38398	Thank you. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38399	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed governor with his associates, I am truly pleasantly surprised by what you did when I read all the material. You put new five currencies on the course list – Russian laundry, Chinese yuan, Turkish lira, Bulgarian left and Romanian leu. What did you do with it? You've created a theoretical assumption that between the dinars and these currencies there's no dollar, because America's domination is that the dollar appears as a global means of payment. At the moment when the dollar is not a worldwide means of payment, America will not be dominant and will not be this relationship in the world. I would also like to suggest to you that there be an Iranian rival on the course list, because the conflict that broke out between Iran and America is not about weapons, because I don't know cannons, rockets, etc., but because of Iran's desire to export its oil into reality. The Chinese and the Russians are trying to bring their trade trade down and show off in laundry or yuan. So you have allowed businesses to trade with all these countries directly or in dinars, or in their currencies, to avoid the dollar, because the dollar is the biggest evil in the world economy. When the dollar wins, the world will change for sure. This is your great contribution to change and development in world politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38400	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38401	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected governor with associates, this Article 2 in this legislative proposal, you define the concepts that are later going through this whole legislative proposal, and I have invested one amendment that further defines as one means of combating corruption in order to develop the Republic of Serbia. Why? I remember some of the past times, when almost all these terms you mentioned here were synonyms for exploiting and sucking state money out of the state register. In particular, it was characteristic of service providers, where you define banks, insurance companies, funds, etc. Here, for example, when you talk about funds. It's not just one term. It was a very imaginative way, first of all in the AP Vojvodina, I know that you're coming from Novi Sad and that you're well aware of it, first of all in Vojvodina when it comes to, for example, the Fund for Subsidying Modern Technologies. The aim of setting up this fund, at least the formal goal, was to install, subsidise new technologies and employ additional workers. What's the score? Thirty-fivem euros missing and thousands and thousands of street workers. How did that work? Well, by keeping in mind that in some newly-opened company close to one of the representatives of the then government, and don't forget that until two years ago in the AP Vojvodina, the Democratic Party was conducting with its associates, as a rule it worked to give some of them close businesses money to buy some new technologies. Of course, he had an obligation to hire workers, usually those workers would not even receive, and although they would be received by the company very quickly going bankrupt, they would be fired, and the new technology would never be obtained, but would be bought old and worn out of machinery. The company goes bankrupt and the money will never be returned to the fund. That way 35m euros from the fund evaporated. The money was not returned to the fund, but as a rule it was returned to the people who granted the same money. Those who ruled the government, exercised power in Vojvodina until 2016. That's one example of how a fund's concept can be abused and used primarily for some kind of crime and corruption. This amendment of mine is a warning that never again would such concepts be a synonym for the robbery and theft of state money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38402	The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38403	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Governor Tabakovic, with fellow respected fellow MPs, the adoption of a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts is aimed at contributing to the use of information-communication technologies in the field of financial services. The main objective of lawmaking is to improve the rights of users of financial services and to further protect those same users, and to specify certain practical issues in remote bargaining, as well as to bring domestic legislation in line with EU law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, where position 2 is added, seeking to underline the importance of investments that have been significantly increased thanks to our tireless President, Alexander Vukic, then the Serbian Government and the National Bank of Serbia's policy, which leads to an extraordinary fiscal and monetary policy, maintains a low rate of inflation and a stable course of the euro and a series of things my colleagues have talked about and what SNS with the right of pride. Investors invested 2.6 billion euros last year, which in this first quarter of 2018 was exceeded compared to the same period last year. It also shows that investors believe in the country's political and financial stability and that inflation will remain low and stable. With this law, we're moving forward with time. Young people have already mastered information technologies, and older ones, in line with the principle of lifelong learning, will increasingly monitor changes. The establishment of a single legal framework for the protection of users when contracting all major types of financial services at a distance should also strengthen the confidence of users in financial service providers and increase transparency. The proposal sets out the obligations of financial service providers in all phases of distance bargaining, that it must ensure adequate customer information as a basis. It shortens the process and speeds up development, because we don't have time to wait. We are in a hurry to live in a rich and happy Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38404	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Col. Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38405	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor, honourable fellow Members, my amendment refers to that, in addition to all defined terms, somehow an accent should be put on the 2030 Agenda because these very concepts are part of the Agenda itself, especially the goal of eight talking about promoting economic growth, sustainable economic growth, and which specializes in the concepts relating to financial institutions, developments in the financial market. The law that we are discussing today and the amendment under Article 2 is just now talking about that the authorities of the NBS have so far not been directed towards this objective of the digitalisation of Serbia, and this is why the NBS has prepared this bill thoroughly and through public debates. All these terms defined in Article 2 of the amendment, in this amendment, show that the NBS has arranged, controlled and wants to improve the smooth functioning of payment traffic, especially when we talk about using new technologies, that in Serbia over two million users exist who use their services online and that as much as 97% of all citizens pay in the country and only 3% abroad. Of those 3% abroad, 85% of all transactions are made and I'll tell you that probably around 100% of the young people who work IT, who work for other users abroad and Serbia, perform precisely through these types of information technologies, means payment traffic being carried out with the help of financial services at a distance. So, in fact, the very control that all states have, so far in Serbia neither this law existed nor was there control. This is a form of introducing order into a financial market information technology system that will ultimately have Serbia always have the right picture, and when it comes to people who perform functions and business activities with abroad, but will also have a rise in the number of users who are doing this function today, precisely because, regardless of what young people do in their full capacity, I think that the older ones will understand that many costs are being reduced needless, to reduce unnecessary waits on tents, which older Serbian citizens are prone to some habits. I think it's raising the awareness of Serbia's citizens in general for Serbia to step up with new technologies and for business activities that have opened up the investment environment to really become a daily one. The results of the NBS, we have had the opportunity to hear what they are, but it should be repeated despite the stabilisation of the NBS course, in addition to the dinarisation as one of the main instruments of the financial market in general, in addition to the reduction of all unnecessary giving in terms of the banking sector compared to the users of banking services, or all citizens of Serbia, we have the part that relates to the opening of the investment environment, together with all those laws that the Serbian government passed over the past four years and when Mr. Vukic was prime minister and now that as president of the state is leading one responsible foreign policy. He showed that the NBS shoulder to shoulder with all other central banks and developed EU states can deal with its results, as this is confirmed by all financial institutions, which are ultimately the biggest critics not only of Serbia's economies, but also of countries in the region and the EU. As far as we can see, the results show really impressive opportunities for the laws we're talking about today to discuss at all. We thank you, first of all, for coming today and with such bill proposals to open up the possibility for young people today to think that with these opportunities they can easily get from home, using information technologies, to work in the world, to earn and, ultimately, to acquire and capital here and to open small and medium-sized enterprises related to entrepreneurship, but above all, to increase exports when it comes to high technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38406	National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bakery, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38407	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected guests, respected governor, the NBS's desire to improve the business environment and reduce economic costs, especially in the part of the business of payment cards, online trade and the protection of financial users. The need for the adoption of this law on the agenda today is to provide additional protection for users of financial services when contracts are made at a distance and protection is adapted to services that can be obtained via the Internet and mobile phones. We heard that last year such services were over two million with a tendency to be more and more and then it's quite logical that the NBS took these moves and that it proposed this law. These are the laws that show the responsibilities of the National Bank. Speaking of responsibilities, I would quote Mrs Ljiljana Malusic, who has a habit of saying – so is the government responsible. In this case, we can say - that's how the governor of the National Bank works and so does the responsible NBS. There is no doubt that the SNS will support this law, as well as all other laws that have come to the agenda of this session and continue to support all improvements in the monetary and financial policy initiated by the NBS, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38408	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Messenger Tian the Davidite. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Davidovci, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38409	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable citizens, amendment to Article 2. I have submitted a proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in a distance contract in order to more precisely define the meaning of the concepts within the meaning of this law. During the previous six years, during Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic's term of office, the NBS has achieved and maintained price and financial stability, meeting its statutory basic objectives and contributing to the creation of a business environment, reduced internal and external imbalances, lower borrowing costs, higher available income, sustainable acceleration of economic growth, a significantly lower insurance premium, as well as repairing the country's credit rating. It should be borne in mind that these results have been achieved under the conditions of strong challenges between the people's environment that have increased uncertainty in all markets and have demanded increased central bank caution in decision making and implementing measures. The fact is that in Serbia today there is no talk of inflation as was the case before. During the period of one year, the annual inflation of 12.9% in October 2012 was reduced to 2.2% in October 2013. During the previous five years, inflation at the average level is about 2%. Low and predictable inflation was a prerequisite for increasing investment and thus production and exports, as well as employment and profit on a sustainable basis. Low and predictable inflation makes a major contribution to the overall results achieved so far, but also to those we can count on in the future. In the past six years, the National Bank of Serbia has established and preserved the relative stability of the exchange rate of dinar towards the euro in the ambience of significant turbulence in international markets. If the period from 6 August 2012 to 22 May 2018 is observed, the euro remains almost unchanged. It strengthened 0.3%, with NBS intervention-based foreign exchange reserves increasing by 375m euros, while in the period from 2008 to 6 August 2012, the dinar lost a third of its value to the euro, 33.2%, despite a significant spending of 5.7 billion euros in foreign reserves. The stability of the dinar course's movement has proved to be a good basis for deepening lasting and successful co-operation with the world. Since 2016, more than half of our production has been placed on the ino-markets, the share of exports of goods and services to GDP in 2017 reached 52.5%, and in the first quarter of this year 54.4%. In 2012 comparisons, exports of goods and services accounted for 36.2% of GDP. The contribution of the NBS to creating a favourable business environment in the Republic of Serbia is also seen through the fact that it is investing more and more in the long term in Serbia. Net inflows based on foreign direct investment increased from 2.4% of GDP in 2012 to 6.6% of GDP in 2017. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38410	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38411	Thank you. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, honourable MPs, taking into account technological progress, especially in the field of information technologies, growing demands, in the first place of business, business people and all citizens, certainly this proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services came in a timely manner and that it is acceptable in full. It should be stressed that this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and enhances the work of local self-government, which is the essential interest of all of us. Local self-government as the integral parts of our country deserve to be equally developed and arranged environments. The policy of even development and the right to equal chances, which Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic insists on, have already produced visible results in all local self-governments that have finally become the middle of numerous investments and significant capital investments. So it is now also in the North Banat County, where more than 16 years of the previous regime has been invested in two years, led by local leaders who have been absolutely concerned about improving the work of local self-government. It was recognized by Serbian citizens and after 12 years, unfortunately, in Vojvodina after 16 years of humiliation, they entrusted Serbia with SNS, which gave Serbia a host ready to preserve, build and develop the country and leave it to its children and future generations strong, independent, which is very important, ready to plan their own future, an internationally recognised country with which all of us, a country where our children will certainly be happier than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38412	Thank you. We'd be done with this morning's work. I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Granny, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38414	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed Governor, the esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People, in Article 2. The bill adds item 2 – basic concepts and the implementation of this law provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the development of medical centres. This amendment further defines the position of 2nd of this law. Health is a resource for everyday life, not the goal of life. It is a positive concept that highlights social and personal resources, as well as physical capacities. Mental, intellectual, emotional, and social health refers to the ability of a person to cope with stress, to acquire skills and maintain, thus forming resources for resilience and independent life. If these apply to long-term disturbances, there is a drop in individual systems and the onset of the disease. One of these systems is the cardiovascular system. The most common disease of the heart and blood vessels that carry life is a heart attack. Over the last year, more than 52,000 people died of a heart attack and a stroke, or stroke, in Serbia, suggesting that more than half of the mortality is caused by heart disease and blood vessels disease and their complications. These diseases have recently been affected by women than men have been affected, and younger people are increasingly hit. In the opinion of cardiologists, this is the condition of smoking, malnutrition, increased stress and insufficient physical activity. Accordingly, in Serbia, six people die every hour from cardio disease, i.e. 145 per day or at an annual level of more than 52,000, and 28,300 women, on men, are 23,700. These figures, unfortunately, classify Serbia among the countries with the highest mortality of heart disease, right after Russia and Ukraine, which is very alarming for our country. These data are an important warning for society as a whole to respond urgently and prevent this much mortality from our citizens since K.V. disease, especially since the rate of myocardial infarction is increasing at a younger age, ranging from 30 to 45 years of age. The first indicators of heart attack development are chest pain, left arm thorns, nausea, and high pressure. First of all, citizens themselves need to understand the dangers these diseases bring with them and must follow unconditional advice from doctors and prevention in terms of systematic examinations and check blood counts, fat and sugar in the blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38415	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38416	It's probably all this data that my colleague just delivered is correct. They are alarming, the state of health is in Serbia at a low level. The fact is that, that is, improving and creating conditions should be done, but the law on the protection of users of financial services in the distance has absolutely nothing to do with it, unless a colleague thought that those who can't use these financial services, who don't actually have money, have no bills, have no payment cards, so that's the cause of having a heart attack. Indeed, we are absolutely in favour of allowing MPs the maximum width in the context of amendments and the bill's proposal and we use it ourselves, but I just wanted to draw attention and actually ask a colleague whose expertise I absolutely don't doubt, does everything he said -- to heart attacks, to cancers, to a poor state of health to great mortality, and to what extent does Serbia's citizens actually have a hard time living? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38417	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38418	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected governor with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, economic and social policies are causally and subsequently linked. Low inflation, the stability of the dinar course, the opening of factories and the employment of new people, the growth of GDP of 4.5% for the first quarter alone are the elements of responsible economic policy, but also the foundation of responsible social policy and the particular foundation of the responsible socio-protective function that the state has according to the most vulnerable categories of population. Also, these are elements that affect poverty reduction, and hence the percentage of vulnerable population categories. I must point out that during the time of the yellow company, from Pitiæ to Gilas, in the most cruel way possible, child robbery has been committed in the development. Namely, Pajtic, by building, for God's sake, the Heterland Castle damaged children mentally distracted in development by 157 million. Since Hetherland Castle, there was nothing, and the victims were children distracted in development. Also, Gilas at the time of government and at the time he was in office, under the pretext of building a living room for children, was legally usurping the most elite part of the land on the Kosutnjak and building the house "Big Brother". All that was left behind were garbage and animals died, and, of course, children were deceived again. By contrast, I would like to say that in the previous period only in Belgrade, the responsible SNS authority has allowed 330 persons with mental disturbances, while 52 persons have been provided with personal assistants. I must also point out that the renovated and daily stays for children are distracted in development, in line with the highest standards possible and the users of living rooms are just the children of the categories of which these facilities are intended. Your Honor, Madam Governor, I would like to point out that, apart from your high knowledge of economic and financial policy and responsible monetary policy at the head of the NBS, you have shown one more trait of yours, which is patriotism and I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38419	National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Filipovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38420	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing there are no members of the DS and these other remains of that former and failed regime, because then any discussion would lose its purpose today. What are numerous and concrete data my colleagues presented, but it was best presented by our NBS Governor, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic and I would look back on only one fact, and as regards the fact that we are no longer talking about high inflation in Serbia today. It is a huge, exceptional result that has brought Serbia much good in the past, and above all a certainty when it comes to attracting investment, investors who invest money in our country. That's good for our citizens, because our citizens after a decade and a half or two decades of Serbia's collapse have come to this opportunity to live better, but to live better on a real basis, to live better than work. In Serbia, over 12 years have lived exclusively from combinations, from combinations of failed yellow enterprises, and hence only tycoons and politicians, political class, mafia and all those close to the regime. Today in Serbia, it is a big difference between us and them, between politics led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandar Vukic and, of course, the National Bank of Serbia led by Governor Jorganko Tabakovic, the difference is that citizens live better today. Today, citizens slowly, year by year, step by step, live better. Pensioners, those who have built this country, feel this improvement. Here, this year, we talked about, significant pay and pension increases coming up, and that's something that guarantees a certain age for pensioners, and a certain future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38421	The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirko Krlić submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mole, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Tabakovic, with her associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, defining the basic concepts and implementing this law certainly affects Serbia's overall development, and that is why we all wish to see positive effects on Serbs in the region. We must in no way reject the fact that in one part of our country lives a significant part of the Serbs in the most difficult conditions. In order not to be misunderstood again, I do not view Kosovo and Metohija as a region in another country, nor Kosovo as a state, but all the problems, all the conditions under which Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija live today, are sublime of all Serbs in the region, and they are even more difficult. Without legal assistance, without their police, without their military and country of origin, with full capacity, Serbs in Kosovo today are exposed to unprecedented terror and however difficult it may be, they remain there. Even so, I say, all these difficulties, life still wins. It beats every evil. And any financial assistance, and their financial security, would certainly mean a lot, as far as survival itself is concerned, and as far as the reputation of the Republic of Serbia is concerned in the negotiating process, and not only that, it would grow significantly. Does it make sense? Of course there is. I'll just say some examples and special examples south of the Ibar River, where the situation is the hardest. Orahovac and Velika Hota have a world brand, these are famous vineyards. However, I witnessed how difficult it is to place my products, to charge them, to have contacts. Although, for example, the British Embassy in Pristina, although it is not an embassy for us and certainly is not friendly, on its receptions, exclusively by order of the ambassadors, only uses the children's wine from Velika Hote and are not small consumers, they acknowledge that Serbs know that they do what no one else can. Of course, there is Bezovica, Strpci, who, for good information, last year has the most children born in Kosovo and Metohija. Only tourism and investment in tourism can live and can live the whole world. One example. The ski season, with such capacities, under such conditions, with all the theft and all the shortages happening there, recorded a record of up to 10,000 euros a day. You know best what potential it is for certain loans or for the possibility of investing there and for that end to pass. Of course, Pomoravlje, Kosovo Pomoravlje, with its agricultural products and good financial support from the Republic of Serbia would flourish. However, in the whorehouse of the sponsored democracy of former owners in Serbia, the confirmation is still the best and most profitable product. There's no more natural alliance than the bad guys and the downhearted. That is why today in Serbia we hear the words that everything has failed, that the fight is in vain and that the reality of the loss of Kosovo and Metohija as the only correct policy should be accepted. What does it mean, then, to fund Serbs, and what does it even mean to fight for Kosovo and Metohija? As long as there's resistance, there's a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38423	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Djukanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJibuška Lakatoš was submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Katarina Rakic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lint, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38424	Dear Mrs Tabakovic and her associates, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about a very important interstate agreement that has great importance for the state of Serbia, hundreds of damaged legal entities from Serbia and hundreds of thousands of damaged citizens living in Serbia or displaced around the world. The Vienna Succession Agreement, signed in 2001 in Vienna, came into force in June 2004, following ratification in parliaments of the successor states of the former Yugoslavia. It consists of seven annexes. In particular, Annex 7 of that Agreement, which is called – Private property and acquired rights, which clearly states that all legal entities and all natural persons will be protected from the rights they had on Day 31. 12. In 1990, all contracts made during the war, under pressures and threats, will be declared nothing. Under the conditions of the successor states of the former Yugoslavia under international law, interstate agreements ratified in national parliaments have stronger legal power than domestic law. Unfortunately, some countries created in the former Yugoslavia systematically, here for 14 years, are violating the Vienna Agreement on Succession, especially Annex G. Within Vienna's Agreement on Succession, a single body was formed, so-called A permanent mixed committee consisting of senior representatives of the successor states of the former Yugoslavia, which is tasked with working on the implementation of the agreement. Following the entry into force of the agreement itself, the Commission asked Annex G to this Agreement and immediately came up with two concepts, whether Annex G could be applied directly or needed to sign a bilateral agreement between the successor countries of the former Yugoslavia for its implementation. The state of Serbia has been very correct since 2004, i.e. the courts in our country have begun to implement the Vienna Agreement on Succession, namely Annex G of this Agreement, and have begun to return property to legal entities from countries that are inherited in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, among them especially Croatia. Unfortunately, on the other hand, the Croatian State Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice immediately ordered their courts in autumn 2004, following the entry into force of the agreement itself, not to return parts of the business, i.e. parts of the property of Serbian companies located in Croatia. After several years and our courts have stopped returning the property of Croatian companies, as Annex G clearly states that the agreement must be implemented solely on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. At the third meeting of the Standing Committee in September 2009, the Serbian and Slovenian sides accepted the Croatian view that it is still going to sign bilateral agreements for the implementation of Annex G. On this basis, the Serbian government sent a draft bilateral agreement to the Croatian side at the end of 2009, but since then, during 2010, 2012, 2012 and 2013, despite four official Belgrade emergencyes, Croatia has refused to declare the draft. Only in June 2013, the Government of Ivica Dacic withdrew the draft, as it was obvious that Croatia was buying time and did not want to apply it directly, nor would it want to sign bilateral agreements. Our legal entities have tried to return their property to the courts in front of the Croatian courts. One of them passed all the court cases in Croatia. Of course, the answers of the Croatian judiciary were negative, however, they also found a negative response before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has come to a hypocritical position, saying it cannot consider the verdict in this case on the youth of tourists who have managed to reach Strasbourg because there is no bilateral agreement between Serbia and Croatia for the implementation of Annex G. Therefore, Croatia has been obstructing the implementation of the Vienna concession agreement for 14 years, and on the other hand, the European Court of Human Rights says here, we will consider the lawsuit of Serbian companies that have passed all court cases in Croatia, provided there is a bilateral agreement. I have also appealed and appealed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a report by Minister Dacic, a memorandum with concrete information on the kidnapping of property of Serbian legal entities, natural persons. It's about 300, 400 Serbian companies that are looking for their property, hotels, resorts, business premises, etc. in the territory of Croatia, and of course there are hundreds of thousands of damaged citizens, expelled Serbs who cannot regain their property rights and acquired rights. It is therefore important that our Foreign Ministry directs a memorandum of the EU, the UN, which was the sponsor of the signing of the OSCE agreement to the Council of Europe, to get to know the international public and international organisations with these facts that Croatia violates its own constitution, violates international law, because it does not want to implement this important interstate agreement in order to resolve a number of open issues after Yugoslavia's collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38425	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38426	Thank you. Dear Governor Tabakovic, the work and results of the NBS are visible and no one can dispute that. The dollar from the fourth worst, made it to the second best currency in the world. Inflation was 3% last year, plus, minus 1%, and we expect the next two years to be 3%. The National Bank of Serbia has lowered the interest rate to 3.5%. Thus, interest has been reduced for both the population and the economy, and thus for our country. The dinar stepped up towards the euro last year by 4.2%. We have 19.41 tons of gold in foreign exchange reserves, and we've increased the same. The official average rate of dinar according to the euro was 111,567, and today 2018 is at the same level. Energy in work and measurement in decision-making are the key results of the joint co-operation of President Aleksandr Vukic, our Government and NBS with a common goal of ensuring a better and better quality life for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38427	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38428	Thank you. The esteemed governor of the NBS, the stability present in the field of monetary policy, the stability of our currency of dinar, was not acquired overnight, but by daily five-year work and effort. The development of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Customers of Financial Services, investment at a distance and what encourages me most is that all actors, market participants will feel more stable and secure, further affecting that we will have greater interest from foreign investors, but also from domestic ones, to expand their production capacities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly under the government of the Republic of Serbia and the regime it is headed. It leads such a regime that Serbian citizens are living better, as it is in Zrenjanin as well. I must tell you, in the previous period, in particular in 2017 3000 new jobs were opened in Zrenjanin. I've got the National Employment Service's data that says the following. The reduction in unemployment in Zrenjanin was 19,700 unemployed in 2012. It decreased in 2016 to 16800 and 2018 in April of 12.200. It's for the high school management district. When we talk about the city of Zrenjanin, the data is different. In 2018, we have only 5,500 unemployed, and in 2012 we found 11,000. It just ends with the math that we've reduced the number of unemployed by 5,500. Therefore, I will always support laws that promote a reduction of unemployment and a better life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38429	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38430	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the amendment to Article 2 is absolutely in line with the amendment that I have submitted to Article 1 and to Article 3 and 4 of this Law, in order for the issue of social equality to be sufficiently expressed through this law. Not only does social equality need to be regulated by this law, because we are witnessing one thing that is very little to talk about. It is that financial institutions during the previous period had one, how can I say, relationship, but the reverse system of Robin Hood. We had the opportunity to see that for the poorest categories of the population were the most unfavourable conditions when it came to any kind of credit, any kind of banking service, and that the privileges were given to those who were rich. It is simply something that must not and cannot be acceptable in further work and passing such a law simply enables the National Bank to, through Article 24 and Article 25, and by adopting this amendment, it would be even simpler, really prevent it from being impossible. It is very important here that Article 24 provides for the exercise of the rights of protection and the interests of users, precisely defined by which laws protect certain categories, but what is even more important in Article 25 of the supervision of all these and full supervision of the application of the security of all these are provided by the NBS. The National Bank of Serbia has shown that it is doing its job very responsibly, so we expect that this additional commitment will also be fulfilled in the way that Serbian citizens rightly expect it, looking back over the past six years, as it has done and functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38431	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Member Compirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38432	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, with her associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have a set of laws ahead of us that we will support, because they are all running reform processes and developing Serbia's improvement in all areas of society in the fields of education, education and justice. In order for citizens to live better, we have to work and we can only establish this by our work, knowledge and effort. It is also a confirmation of the adequate monetary policy that the NBS has been leading for the last six years and the success of joint work by the government, our president and the NBS. The course reflects the situation in the economy, and by strengthening the dinars, the result is a growing, macroeconomic picture of Serbia and the news that our dinar is the second best currency of the world has been over the past year, changing the economic picture of our country in the world. I must stress my gratitude to the governor, who together with our president's policy, our government's policy, makes for citizens in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija by taking care of them and their survival there. It also proved by working in "Yugobanks", "Jugbanks", Kosovo Mitrovica, taking care of each worker to stay at his post and to be taken over by the Post Office Bank, which they are very grateful for, as this enables the survival and survival of our institutions in those areas of Kosovo and Metohija. Only by preserving such a policy, a policy of peace, led by our president, who is supported by the government and the NBS, is trying to make us live better, safer, and to go a safer way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38433	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38434	Thank you, Chairman. I would first like to congratulate the citizens of Belgrade on the mayor's election, as a few minutes ago the City Assembly elected Dr Radojcic, the first on the SNS list. I fully support the draft law on the agenda, and my amendment stresses the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development and I think it is fully in line with the objectives of this law. But I would like for the citizens of Serbia, although it has been said several times, to highlight the most significant results for the last six years, i.e. during your term, Mrs Tabakovic. Maintaining financial stability as an absolute priority that has contributed to a more stable business environment, lower borrowing costs, speeding up economic growth and repairing our country's credit rating. Why is this important to point out? Because economic stability is a prerequisite, i.e. it creates a good investment environment, it attracts new investments. New investments lead to an increase in jobs, new jobs, all leading to an increase in economic growth, but also a better standard of living for citizens. For all these reasons, I want to support this, but also all the other laws that are on the agenda today, and as I said at the beginning, I think my amendment is absolutely compatible with the text itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38435	Thank you. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Savkic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38436	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment I have submitted to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts is – basic concepts and the implementation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. In my previous presentation, I talked about increasingly massive electronic business, the development of modern information technologies and how the proposal for a law on financial operations remotely corresponds to the overall trend of digitisation in this area. However, it is important to point out that the bill is of enormous importance when it comes to the protection of interest and the rights of users of financial services in all stages of the contract. Financial service users are further protected when it comes to unwanted services. If the offer does not respond, it is considered not accepted, so that it cannot be paid. The obligation to provide services is foreseen to use electronic signatures in each situation. This raises legal certainty to a higher level, resulting in strengthening the confidence of users of this type of service. In this way, the bill creates a realised effect on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, where the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are constantly working. I therefore believe that the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the efficiency of the institutions must be explicitly highlighted in Article 2 in order to further define the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38437	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Palalych, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since this law is about protecting users of financial services, it should certainly be addressed, if we are talking about protection, which are a threat to financial service users. Yesterday, I spoke of high-tech crime as one of the most important and common threats affecting the provision of financial services and which, unfortunately, has been gaining momentum lately. High-tech crime itself implies, by its definition, that objects are also a means of criminal acts, computers, computer equipment, computer data, computer networks and their derivatives. This kind of, we can say, cyber crime has recently taken on such a situation that the state had to primarily go through institutions, which it formed from special sectors in the police, the prosecution to courts, to respond to this dangerous threat and a dangerous phenomenon. What I want to look at now is the fact that we would successfully fight high-tech crime as a threat to financial service users, we need to have trained and quality personnel. The latest estimates say that Serbia lacks around 15,000 IT experts and is indeed a good step and excellent news that already 71 high school has expressed its desire to form special departments that would be involved in providing and training for IT experts. I want to believe that the new generations of IT experts will not only go to the private sector or those parts of the state administration that are concerned with its development, such as agriculture, such as the economy, but that a good part of these experts will go to these very institutions that are fighting high-tech crime, because this is one of the most important needs for the remaining parts of our social economic system to function successfully. So I urge the police, the judiciary and the prosecution to closely monitor the quality of personnel coming out of our high school tomorrow and to find attractive models to attract them to be part of our institutions fighting high-tech crime, because this is a condition for the successful further development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38439	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bagby, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38440	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Governor with his associates, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, with the aim of further defining the subject matter of this member. The proposed law regulates the rights of users of financial services when contracting financial services using means of communication at a distance, as well as the conditions and means of achieving and protecting those rights. The proposed law will further and comprehensively address the issue of protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely and will allow overcoming problems in practice in the conclusion of a contract using a qualified electronic signature which, indeed, still uses a smaller part of the population. This legislative act essentially complements the existing legal framework in the area of the protection of financial services users in the Republic of Serbia, by introducing detailed provisions aimed at establishing uniform principles and principles for all financial services that can be provided remotely. For the various financial arrangements currently regulated through a number of specific laws, such as: credit and other banking services, insurance, payment services, e-money services, financial contracts and investment services, rules are harmonised when agreed on remotely, providing additional legal certainty to the financial services user, and the process of negotiating different types of financial services for the user is simplified, which essentially ensures the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38441	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of richinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38442	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Tabakovic, with his associates. The National Bank of Serbia is an institution that is essentially responsible for creating an environment that has led to significant and very positive changes in Serbia's economic development, especially in Leskovac, a city from which I come. After many years of camping, we are witnessing the opening of a large number of jobs in production plants that were founded both by domestic and foreign investors. Thanks to the monetary policy that has led to the stabilisation of prices and inflation movements in absolutely planned frameworks, as well as the course that enables businesses to plan, instead of speculating, a large number of companies decided to start their production and increase in the period from 2012 to 2018 in Leskovac. I would point out "Jinsi", "Falke", "Juru", "Autostop Interiors", "Tera style", "Bane Komerc", "Mitic Plast", "Mlekara Leskovac", "Nevena Kolor", as well as many others. These business entities have opened over 4,000 new jobs during the period mentioned, which you will admit is a significant momentum for Leskovac to be re-established and imposed as an industrial centre of southern Serbia, a position long since lost, and especially by catastrophic privatisations, by robbery privatisations from 2000 to 2012. You shouldn't forget agricultural production. The policy, which pays particular attention to agricultural producers and subsidies and payments policies, has introduced significant amounts of payment turnover into legal flows, and the amount and volume of agricultural production in the woodland is growing significantly year by year. In addition to the fact that Leskovac is a significant producer of a large number of agricultural products, whose culture is variable for various reasons, and thus variable prices and earnings, wood farmers, which are market-defined, find understanding for this movement, and often point out that business has never been safer and that product placement is always possible, with home and very modern production. This type of production is characteristic of these areas, so I would point out the co-operation between the producer and local self-government, which is based on understanding and assistance, and never on blackmail or blockages that harm everyone. Leskovac farmers, and many of them are considered very wealthy hosts, always point out that the work they do is difficult, that profit is not possible overnight and that it takes a lot of work and knowledge, but that the result is not lacking. In the town of Leskovac, on the territory of the town of Leskovac, I remind you, the best vegetables and excellent fruit trees live. In the end, the severe torment of the results achieved in the economy and agriculture of the woodland through the politics of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia must defend itself against the malicious ones who do not have other jobs, nor want to have them, from the centres of power that have marginalised and which are impossible to rob, which are still waiting for their chance. I am taking the opportunity to call on the current one, and I hope, in my heart, that the future governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorganka Tabakovic, will continue with his policy of working in the defence of the interests of the citizens and the economy of Serbia on the defence of the environment in which we want to live peacefully and prosperously, both us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38443	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38444	You, Mrs Tabakovic, said yesterday, I will quote you – we know what our goals are and how to achieve them effectively and responsibly. The sentence speaks a lot about stability, about the results achieved by the National Bank of Serbia for the past six years during your term of office. As financial resources affect overall development, it is in fact the most said stability of the course that has contributed to the economic environment being predictable and therefore favourable to strengthening and economic external trade activities. Since 2016, more than half of our production has been placed on the market, the share of exports of goods and services to GDP has reached 52.5% in 2017, in the first quarter of this year 50.4% and, compared to 2012, exports of goods and services have then accounted for 36.2% of GDP, which means that a major shift has been made since 2017. Also, carefully measured reactions, the National Bank of Serbia has maintained foreign reserves as a guarantee of stability and it is more than obvious that by moving the dinar course there was no limit to the export potential of our economy, on the contrary, stability has proved to be a good basis for deepening lasting and successful co-operation with the whole world. I have submitted this amendment in addition to Article 2 in order to further define Article 2 of this law because financial stability is the basis for our economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38445	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38446	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I, as well as the previous amendment, have put an emphasis on underdeveloped areas in the mountainous and mountainous areas, with the intention of doing as much work in these areas as possible, because we have witnessed that there have been major problems in the past due to financial instability, due to unfavourable loans, and this has been the most reflected in the development of agricultural production, the development of such areas as Svrljig, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka, Babushnica, Književec and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, where many of our agricultural producers who have been pillars of our society, the pillar of our country, who have allowed us together to feed our country to Serbia when it was most difficult, when defending the country. That's why I delivered this amendment, and I expect that when it comes time for us all to vote, to support my amendment, precisely because I am focusing on underdeveloped areas, there is an accent on the development of these areas. Otherwise, we all know that in our neighborhoods it is quite difficult, that many of our villages do not have the possibility of electronic payment, that many of our agricultural producers do not have the possibility, there is no such knowledge, but we want to do so together in the legal frameworks, these laws and these people by helping them to do so. In the first plan, I will always advocate these areas, because I really want the whole of agriculture, the southeast of Serbia has much greater importance in the coming period, that there will be bigger investments. I would also like to thank as a national MP and a man from those areas, from Srljig, as president of the United Peasants' Party and personally, who puts a really large accent on underdeveloped areas, on small municipalities, where there are few citizens, and that is the Post Office where he is along with management, together with the Executive Director, the President of the Executive Board, Mr Bojan Kekic is working on opening exposures in these small municipalities, because in this way he really wants to help those small municipalities to have their own banks, to work, to give favourable conditions for the lending of agriculture and all that is necessary. I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal, for my amendment because I think we really need to give support and accent to underdeveloped areas of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38447	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38448	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected governor with associates, respected MPs, by introducing digitalisation as a priority of the Serbian government, which marks the improvement of the use of information-communication technologies in all areas, and above all in the economy and state administration, the need also emerged for the area to be regulated and the relevant laws. This law therefore constitutes one of the key laws in the field of digitisation, which, together with the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business and the Law on Electronic Administration, completes the legal integrity and contributes to the use of information and communication technologies in the field of financial services. Since the basic objectives of adopting this law are to improve the rights of users of financial services, as well as their additional protection by clarifying certain practical issues in remote bargaining and harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation, where the area has already been regulated, its importance is even greater. Because of the regulatory framework achieved, it is a very important factor in the Serbian digital economy, because the digital economy requires a modern regulatory framework, and innovations should encourage the creation of socio-technological infrastructure for the new form of money and the start of the historic transformation of money, that paper money into digital money. Realising this law and digitising society would ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the improvement of the defence system. Serbia has already ranked in the ten best countries in Europe in the development of the EGG, and digitisation will bring in more and more content and dynamic changes in our lives. It is our job to create legal frameworks for this process, and I call on you to adopt the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38449	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Tabakovic, it seems to me that many of the colleagues who have disputed this law have forgotten what the fundamental purpose of a law is. It's to arrange one area, or what could be said to the simplest possible dictionary -- that the people don't argue. In our not so distant past, we have had situations that, just because certain areas are not specifically developed, they have led to major adverse consequences and the problems that have been caused since then, we are solving them today. For example, in 2002, the domestic banking sector closed well in 2003, the market was occupied by banks that were not from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the early lending of citizens, businesses and precisely because there were no legal regulations started to be committed certain abuses in the realisation of such contracts. Then we had to pass the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services on our noses. You were an MP at the time, we were trying in every way possible to fix this law with amendments and that it really achieved its purpose. Today and after the amendments proposed by the NBS since you were governor, I can say that abuses in the course of the contract, or when the realisation of financial services, are reduced to the least possible extent, and usually only because of the ignorance of the other party in the procedure which its rights are before the law. We live in the 21st century. We're making technological progress, and one of the facts of the time we live in is that the time we waste on different administrations has a certain price. That is why there was the need for such a kind of bargaining to be applied, but it is precisely because the need for us not to have the situation from 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and until 2012, 2013, we are passing the law on time. We arrange one area, prevent any abuse from being made in providing financial services in any way by a new method. We also inform all those involved in this process which is their rights and which are their obligations, and that is why we also show those who are from the former regime and those who accuse us of not taking care of citizens and businesses, we send a clear message, that we act as responsible authorities and as a responsible political party at the right time, before someone has any adverse consequences because the law does not exist. So it will be in the future, as long as Serbia is led by SNS and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38451	Thank you, colleague Arsic. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38452	I thank the chairman. Respected to the governor with his associates, one of the pillars of the successful development of the Republic of Serbia is of course the NBS. With great knowledge, sacrifice and energy carried by Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic and her associates achieved and preserved financial stability, contributed to a stable business environment, a reduction in inflation, exchange rate stability and, of course, by increasing foreign reserves. As if all this was not enough, because today we are living in one orderly, stable and fiscally consolidated country, and we witnessed the most brutal attacks on Governor Jorganko Tabakovic. Of course, we will no longer allow the worst to be held here in the Assembly of Lectures, the people who hate themselves first, and then everything that is good and good in the Republic of Serbia. The citizens of Sapca were in shock the other day, which Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, once publicly, once secretly brought to Sabac. The Shapcans say, the largest human and political waste in Serbia, and some have exceeded those frameworks, and above all I think of Vuk Jeremic, who spent 3.6m euros on luxury trips around the world and the bahanals by hotels hundreds of thousands of euros. However, above all known for the idiotic question in front of the International Court of Justice and which has brought more to its actions than all the Shiparian lobbyists together kiM in the position they are in today's position. Also, from almost famous for the greatest criminal and corruption affair that shakes the world. Dragan Gilas, who as mayor of Belgrade, has devastated the city by 1.1 billion euros and reported in 2007 from property, the wife's house, then the car and 70,000 euros, and now its property is measured by millions of euros. Bahat, an arrogant and aggressive man whom none of the journalists should have asked a single question when he was in power, has anything more to offer to the citizens of Zapca. Then, Sasa Paunovic, president of the Paracin municipality, who says he must not open closets and drawers in the office, as it is mandatory to take off some affair. Of course, the inevitable financial expert, president of the Municipality of Cajetina Milan Stamatovic, a man who signed a solution for himself as president of the municipality at the same time for the head of the municipal administration. When I say -- a financial expert, I mean that 80% of the Chatin municipality budget is filled with the sale of the Goldibor country, and those addressed say that it has a narrow specialty of avoiding public procurement procedures. From this association, Nebojsa Zelenovic, the mayor of Sapca, proved to be a good student, so, according to the DRI, he has spent only 5m euros unintendedly so far. When we see who are the people who are attacking everything that is good and everything that is successful in Serbia, then we are sure that our country, headed by President Aleksandra Vukic, is taking big steps forward, leaving behind the ugly past in which we were brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38453	Thank you, my fellow Prince. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. He's not here. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38454	Thank you. I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Governor Tabakovic on the excellent monetary policy the NBS has led in the previous years. I would especially like to commend the transparency in the work of the NBS and the team work that you, Madam Governor, had with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You, Mrs Tabakovic, have been doing politics for years, and you know perfectly well that it is the work of opposition MPs today to dispute your work and the results of your work, although the facts of your work speak quite differently, but I sincerely hope that this does not tang you much, given your political experience. What is most important and important to you is that you have the support of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, that you have the immeasurable and unreserved support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs of the SNS, and that the assessment of how and how you worked in these previous six years has given both domestic institutions and world institutions, above all I think that the IMF and the World Bank, which have assessed that you have done your job well in previous years. The amendment I have submitted is heading towards connecting the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special focus on social equality with this law, i.e. my amendment is heading towards supporting the policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and a policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Good information for citizens is the basis for protecting their rights, especially when citizens negotiate their financial services via the Internet, i.e. through modern means of communication. Citizens will now, on the basis of information that is now legally available to them, be able to make comparisons, make comparisons with financial institutions and choose the most favourable financial service, i.e. the financial service that will provide them with the best quality and the best price and make it easier to get acquainted with their rights, but also with how to protect themselves. Our goal is for Serbia to become a modern country, and that is why Serbia should follow the world's trends, and this is exactly what the bill is going to do, because the realisation of this law will bring about the digitisation of the financial sector. Also, the application of this law will increase security payments, resulting in a reduction in the grey economy. This law is exclusively in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, so that my amendment goes that way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38455	Thank you very much. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to allow his participation in the work. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the MP's mandate in order to complete the parliamentary seat. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zivan Djurisic, elected from the election list ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ - SRBJA WINS. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zivan Djurisic. I congratulate you on your choice and I ask you to take an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath and read the oath with me. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Thank you, MP. I call upon you to sign the text of the oath. I wish you on behalf of the Members of the People and on my personal behalf, success in our further work together until the end of our term. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38456	Thank you. Dear Mrs Tabakovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the primary goal which is to achieve the proposed law is to address the issue of protection of users of financial services in remote bargaining and overcoming existing problems in practice when concluding a contract with the use of electronic signature. However, with the implementation of this fundamental objective, other effects, such as the wider availability of financial services on the domestic financial market, are also achieved, a greater choice between existing financial service providers, cost reduction and user time spending, as well as the harmonisation of domestic rights with EU regulations in this area. In fact, the existing legal framework currently partially addressing these issues are the Consumer Protection Act, the Bond Relations Act, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The provisions of those laws, and in particular the Consumer Protection Act, do not fully apply EU Directive 2002-65. It is a consumer directive aimed at harmonising national rules relating to distance marketing of financial services for consumers, which should increase consumer confidence in the application of new techniques, such as electronic trade. Taking into account this fact on the one hand and our strategic definition on the other hand, there is certainly a need for this area to be better regulated, which is precisely done by the proposed law. It should also be pointed out that despite the adoption of this law and its future application, certain provisions of the existing legal framework will continue to apply. In this regard, I point out the final provisions of the proposed law, where it is provided that on the day of its application, it will cease to apply Articles 29, 9 and 10 and Articles 37, paragraph 2. The consumer protection law, but remains in force under the provisions relating specifically to the protection of consumers of financial services, so that, in addition to the provisions of the proposed law, it will continue to apply the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act relating to notification, the consumer's right to withdraw from the contract, as well as other provisions which are not contrary to the provisions of the proposed law. Based on everything presented, there is no doubt that the proposed law is necessary to adopt, so I urge all MPs to do so in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38457	Ambassador Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38458	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Governor of NBS Mrs Tabakovic, respected gentlemen from the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, member 2 defines certain concepts in this law. In Article 2. The bill adds Article 2 which reads: "The basic concepts and the implementation of this law provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving health conditions". The service provider has been defined under point 4. The service provider is said to be the second legal person, or a natural person to provide financial services in the Republic of Serbia in accordance with EU law and regulations. The national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows in Part 3 – the ability to take over from EU membership, in Part 3 of point 28. – Consumer protection and health protection, and in Part 3 of point 28.1. – Consumer protection, the adoption of a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts is envisaged in order to adapt the legislative framework governing the protection of financial services users in the Republic of Serbia with EU rules, in particular the Remote Advertising Directive. I know it's a European law that protects consumers in the field of health care. In that sense, in the first half of 2018, an electronic recipe should be used throughout Serbia. In addition to Belgrade, the use of an electronic recipe began at 42 other health institutions in Serbia. Almost 3.8 million recipes have been issued this way, and about 270 thousand recepts have been restored, so people don't have to go to prescription doctors every month. So, the electronic recipe covers 65% to 70% of Serbia's health and pharmacy homes, i.e. a total of 96% of Serbia's primary health care facilities. Automatic overa health legislation, on the basis of which an electronic prescription is issued, operates on the basis of data on the contribution paid in the tax administration system and comes to the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund. The Republic Health Insurance Fund provides an automatic health insurance card check for the largest number of insurance companies, and this means that insurance companies, farmers, priests, religious officials, foreign pensioners are also enabled. Automatic overa is also available to persons who receive a pension or disability from a state with whom there is no bilateral social insurance agreement, independent artists, persons employed by natural persons, means those persons who do not have a PIB, and persons who carry out jobs based on an exchange agreement of experts or an agreement on international technical co-operation. The automatic override includes members of the family of these persons who are provided through them. Also, these measures apply to persons who are health insurance based on disability, as well as mentally underdeveloped persons, then persons treated with HIV infection and other infectious diseases, malignancies, diseases from rare diseases, persons over 65 years of age, victims of violence and family and trafficking. The automatic overa of the health insurance card was created by connecting the RFZO base with the Tax Administration databases, the central register of compulsory social security, i.e. the PIO Fund and the National Employment Service. So far, the waste of time and money on the counters will finally be the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38459	The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38460	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Governor NBS, Mrs Tabakovic and her associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, cannot adopt tycoon law or you cannot adopt the laws according to the political elite. You must, when you adopt the law, conduct a constant dialogue with both the economy and the citizens, and with traders, and with banks and with all those relevant actors. You have to turn them on. You, Mrs. Tabakovic, have succeeded and I really congratulate you on that, so today we have really good quality legal solutions. Every responsible state does not run a monologue, conducts a dialogue. It is in constant communication with its citizens, with the economy, with commercial banks, with traders, with all those providers, and also with financial services users, and it is a recipe for success and it is a recipe for others to have legal proposals before they enter into the procedure of the National Assembly to handle themselves. The efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia are indeed great in the previous period, when it comes to digitisation. Digitalisation is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, our prime minister. In the previous period, the accent has indeed been put on a number of legal rules and when it comes to the adoption of the e-signature law, the reform of the electronic administration and many other things. Dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to remind you that we have actually found the situation when it comes to electronic signature. We inherited such a situation in the state of Serbia that the electronic signature did not live, although it was introduced, I will remind you in 2004. His use was expensive at the time, it was ineffective, and without electronic signature, there's really nothing you can do about it. Without electronic signature, you can't introduce either electronic business, or electronic trade, or electronic banking. You can't reform the state administration, you can't go to the so-called. The e-Government and you can't introduce electronic healthcare. So you can't do almost anything. In 2014, only 5% of the population used electronic signatures. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic has made it clear that we must introduce an electronic signature as soon as possible and that, in addition to the electronic signature, we must also take care of the qualified signature used for the largest number of transactions, but also in the signature with different levels of legal protection and with different levels of security. So we inherited a catastrophic condition. There was no D of digitization, no E of electronic administration. We didn't have any electronic signatures or a catalogue of electronic services. We've been a long way from the E-Government portal. We didn't have laws that regulate digitization, electronic administration and electronic business. We didn't have a tied base of state institutions in our country. The previous regimes actually promised a colorful lie. He cheated and lied to the citizens, making empty promises, and the citizens recognized it. You can't fool a Serbian peasant, a Serb host so easily, to seduce you, to give you a vote in the election. They recognized then false promises, and for these very reasons they did not vote and punished the previous regime. I really want to say at the very end: the laws and situations in this country are really changing, we are adopting quality laws, we are harmonising with EU regulations, but it is not just a simple copy of certain directives that we get from the European Commission. Today we are discussing a law relating to Chapter 28. Consumer protection, but also numerous other laws. So we're not just copying directives, we're really trying to improve the quality of citizens, businesses, banks and traders in our country. When we know all this, I really call on all my fellow Members of the People to engage in this truly quality debate, to explain their amendments, and I really ask you to have a hearing for all amendments and positions and oppositions, in order to really come up with a quality legal solution. In voting day, the SNS will support these good legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38461	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38462	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I patiently waited to explain my amendment, so I'll try for a moment. Food production, mostly agriculture and processing, are, in my opinion, the two most stable things for the currency of a country. Whoever has agriculture and processing industry doesn't have to worry about the future, but on the condition that our agriculture has to be modernised in the same way as EU agriculture. Small agricultural holdings should not be put out, but should be specialized in livestock, fruit growing and vegetables. Currently out of 100 dinars, in Europe 30 dinars are incentives, or 30 euros a European farmer gets from his country, and 70 is income from agriculture itself. It's 10 to 90 with us, and it's up to 5 to 95 recently. In order for there to be more incentives, we need to develop a processing industry that has to make money that will go as a subsidy to agricultural production and thus withdraws each other. It would be easy for me to feed the poor, but we are constantly distracted by Gilas, Jeremic and the team, the loose and the rich, of those naughty and rich, it is difficult to spread the money nicely and evenly, and it is not necessary for the poor to be ashamed of their poverty, nor the peasants, but for the rich to be ashamed of their wealth. I think Gilas, Jeremic and the team have only fear of losing him soon. There is no such thing as a future, ladies and gentlemen. We have to make the future ourselves, the way we make it work, that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38463	Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38464	Thank you, President. The law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts introduces a number of newspapers into market innovation, but also makes it much easier to conclude legal transactions without a previous excessive administration, because in a clear and unequivocal way, the parameters are defined as who is in a business relationship. This law introduces a new way of doing business, which has not been so widespread in the Republic of Serbia so far. Modern business flows simply impose the need for us, both as a state and a society, to adapt our business in such a way as to get involved as quickly as possible in regional and global flows of goods and capital, in this case first of all, financial services and capital. The law will contribute to the modernisation and development of the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, the tendency to use information technology more and more frequently in the future. So in the end, I would like to invite all my colleagues to vote in favour of these bill proposals that we are discussing, and Governor Tabakovic, all praises and merits to you. Indeed, your work results and the NBS, whose head you are at, are exceptional and acknowledge both domestic and international financial institutions. You're a team player, and we from SNS wish you a lot of success in the future in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38465	The 2nd Amendment was filed by Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38466	I thank the president. Dear Mrs Tabakovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, there is a real need to regulate the obligations of financial service providers at all stages of the contract. The user must still receive all the information necessary to make the right decision on his or her need for a financial service at the pre-contractual stage. It is especially important for the user to be familiar with his rights, such as that he may give up a distance contract under certain conditions or that he does not have to pay for services he did not ask for. What is very important and is contained in the provisions of Article 2 are users, i.e. provisions that will apply not only to natural persons but also to entrepreneurs and farmers whose rights and interests will be further protected, given that they do not have the expertise available as businesses do. The application of earlier laws has identified some practical problems that will be resolved and removed, such as the application of this law. the consequences of the withdrawal from the contract. What is positive, which will contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia to a certain extent, is the fact that financial services will be more accessible, that the choice of financial service providers on the market will be greater and more diverse. In this way, users will be able to choose a financial service that fully meets their needs. Also, financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise their services in a more legally sound environment and to conclude contracts with users, while their rights and obligations are detailed. In the end, I would specifically single out the possibility of conclusion of the contract in electronic form without electronic signature, because this way of closing the contract is not yet sufficiently widespread with us. Therefore, the adoption of this law will contribute greatly to the development of the financial services market in remote bargaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38467	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38468	I thank the president. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen, by supplementing this article with the position I have proposed, the bill of law is further defined in terms of the affirmation of the overall development of our country, and in particular the development of regional medical centres. The government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is seen in the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments, creating the most favourable conditions for state development. The co-operation of the Ministry of Health, the Health Centre of Užica and the municipality, in the DZ Nova Varoš and in the outstretched department of the General Hospital of Užica in Novi Varoša over 80 million dinars have been invested in the last few years. The reconstruction and adaptation of most of these facilities was carried out, it was opened and equipped with the physical medicine service, the pharmacy was opened, parking space with 30 parking spaces was built, seven sanitary and field vehicles were purchased. It is completely replaced by an old carpentry, adapted to all toilets, obtained a number of diagnostic and computer equipment. This year, the municipality of Nova Varoš continued with good practice, the allocation of funds to improve citizens' health care. A new field vehicle has been purchased for the needs of patients in rural areas, a number of medical equipment, such as modern ECG appliances, aspirators, inhalers, gas analysers, are already in use in the outcast department in Novi Varosha. These days, work is also expected to begin to build a new parking space in the circle of the home of health, and the process of constructing a roof reconstruction project on the largest building of this facility is being completed. These facts are evidence of the Serbian government's strategic policy, which fundamentally realises projects of vital importance for the development of our country. Only new investment in infrastructure will create better preconditions for continuing the reforms launched, which are aimed at increasing citizens' living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38469	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38470	I thank the president. Dear Governor, fellow Members of Parliament, in the second Article of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services for Remote Contracting, the meaning of the concepts used in the Law has been defined. Many of these terms have been defined in other laws, such as the Capital Market Act, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services and others. Of course, the adoption of this law will also bring domestic law into line with EU rules in this area, in particular with Directive 2002. The National Bank of Serbia has played a very important role in the process of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia over the past six years, both through the accession process and through the accession process. It is important today to point out that by the end of June we expect to open two new chapters, 33 and 13. It is certainly very important that Chapter 33 relating to financial and budgetary provisions is very important. Also, a part of the pre-accession funds for 2017 of 42m euros of a total of 138m euros will be signed by the end of June. It also agreed on the signing, for the first time, of the IPARD Financial Agreement, relating to agricultural funds of 175m euros in grants until 2020. All this suggests that our government is working very hard and responsible for the well-being of its citizens, as well as the adoption of a law today on the agenda, will certainly affect raising the quality of the standard of living of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38471	National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38472	Thank you, President. Dear Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts with the aim of further detailing the draft law. We do not need to talk much about how the National Bank of Serbia works and how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works. The results of the work are visible and are already being discussed by the governor, Mrs Tabakovic, during the debate in principle. It is enough to look at how the rate of the dinars is moving and how much foreign exchange reserves are, so it will be clear to the largest layman that one responsible policy is being conducted, and as a result of such a responsible policy, we see that the percentage of the unemployed decreases and that it is currently around 12%. Only a few years ago, it was more than 26%. It wouldn't have been possible if there hadn't been direct foreign investment in our country. We are witnessing that things are changing in Serbia and investors are opening up their factories, and this would not be possible without a stable rate of dinars directly affecting exports, especially if we know that all foreign companies are targeting their exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38473	The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38474	Thank you. It is perfectly natural for the introduction and use of advanced technologies to lead to the need for appropriate legal solutions to be followed by this newspaper, especially for the protection of consumers who use to the greatest extent electronic means of paying certain services. The objectives of the adoption of laws on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts are to improve the rights, additional protection of financial services users, as well as to specify certain practical issues in remote contracts. The distance contract refers to communication without the simultaneous physical presence of the consumer and the service provider. This law would ensure the harmonisation of domestic law with EU rules in this area, above all, with Directive 2002/65 which regulates the right advertising and conclusion of the distance of financial services contracts for consumers, which relate to all types of financial services, namely: banking, credit, insurance, pension, investment or payments. The trend of the constant increase in the use of payment instruments, such as payment cards and instruments on which electronic money is stored, has been recorded. When it comes to the number of payment transactions and their value, growth was recorded in the previous year, payments in the Republic of Serbia, as well as abroad. Based on these trends, it can be concluded that citizens, economic operators, are more open to the use of electronic payment methods, showing that information technologies will be used more and more frequently in the future to conclude new contracts, especially after the introduction of electronic money in Serbia in 2015. The creation of a single legal framework for the protection of users when contracting all types of financial services will strengthen the confidence of users of these services in financial service providers. With the amendment, which I have submitted to Article 2 of this Law, I have proposed adding a term of Eurointegration, because I wanted to point out the importance of this process, the development of all areas of our society, especially when it comes to financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38475	National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38476	Thank you, President. A prominent governor with co-workers, with SNS coming to power, begins a major push by the government of the Republic of Serbia to create a favourable business environment, consolidate budgets, reduce unemployment, macroeconomic indicators and a flexible labour market, and new efforts are expected to attract investors. One of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia is the digitisation and improvement of the use of information and communication technologies in all areas, and in the first place in the economy and the state administration. Improving the use of information and communication technologies also contributes to the adoption of the e-document law, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business, as well as the Electronic Administration Act. Just look at the project "Baby, Welcome to the World". Since April 2016, parents have had a new opportunity... The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Please, you'll hear, I didn't disturb you, be parliamentary. They have a new opportunity to obtain the necessary documentation for the newborn. The new system allows for the identification of the personal name of the child, the application of residence and health insurance and the designation of citizenship in the health institution in which the child was born. The procedure is simple and does not require going to the mother. The whole procedure is free of charge. Parents will be informed of the completion of the procedure. Documentation, birth certificate copy, citizenship assurance and health insurance cards will be delivered to their home address. Just imagine how important this is for a population that doesn't have the money to pay for all that documentation, for the Roma population, and for all the other poor population. There's got to be piety, respect for these people. This is a great law. I'm dealing with social issues, and I've completely included what I'm saying, I'm very conscious of what I'm saying, and I know what I'm saying, because one of the objectives of the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia just cares about people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38477	National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38478	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Governor, Mrs Tabakovic, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the realization of the basic concepts of this Act on the protection of users of financial services and distance deals, as well as the basic concepts of this law will contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vucic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs Tabakovic, led by you, the majority of the honourable MPs in this high home, SNS and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law will contribute to the overall system of education and education, in particular to learning and studying at a distance that educational and educational institutions, as well as universities, or universities have been using for decades. Especially should we affirm the patriotic feelings of our students. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would like to applaud to the Honorable People's MPs of the former regime, today on 7 June, gentlemen, in 2018, the Honorable Mr. President of the Republic of Slovakia's Assembly during his address in this high home to the MPs and his words, I quote, that Slovakia will not recognise the self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo and Metohija, finished the quote. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia who watched the transfer and the honourable MPs were shocked to see that the MPs of the former regime did not applaud. No wonder, because their leaders, Vuk Jeremic, called the Wolf descendant, Boris Tadic, called the Lipicaner, and their pajtos, such as Ceda Jovanovic, called the Snooker, and Nenad Canak, called the Gicos, contributed greatly to the so-called so-called "Gicos", by their actions and by not doing so-called self-proclaiming. The independence of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why this, ladies and gentlemen, amendment is very important in order to contribute to the formation of patriotic sentiments in the future, so as not to have such abominations unremembered in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38479	The second amendment was submitted by Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38480	Thank you, President. Dear Governor Tabakovic and his associates, respected fellow MPs, today when we have a surplus in the budget for the first time in many years, today when after a longer period we have the highest economic growth in the region, economic growth that is greater than the average of all countries in the environment, which is higher than the average of EU member states, today when we allocated 128 billion dinars in 2018 for investment in capital projects, when we have export growth by 12.4% in the area of the processing industry, when we have an increase in imports of equipment and repromation, we can certainly talk about economic growth and economic development, so, accordingly, I have submitted the amendment. Serbia today has the most recorded growth in the region, which is the result of the government reform launched by our President Aleksandar Vukic, and continued by the government of Ms Ana Brnabic. Today, the National Bank of Serbia solves the problems the previous regime has been pushing under the carpet, which are problems related to the banking sector's clients. Today, legal solutions fully protect clients of all banks, and that is because banks are obliged to inform clients of all the activities they are carrying out. Today, before they conclude a contract with any client, the banks are obliged to deliver a draft contract, i.e. a contract offer, and thus clients can compare the offers of concrete banks with other banks and decide which bank they will conclude with, and that decision is also the most favourable. Also, if any change arises from initial contracts, and as regards tariffs or interest rates, banks are obliged to notify their clients, otherwise they will be subject to certain penalties. Only twice a year do banks have to inform financial services users of the maturity and underachieving obligations, which prevents court disputes, reduces and virtually eliminates all judicial costs almost daily during the former regime. Today, the National Bank is doing everything it does, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, everything it does, is doing it in a transparent manner. The results we achieved in the previous period are excellent, and that Serbian citizens believe us, that Serbian citizens trust SNS, Aleksandr Vukic, have shown in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38481	Ljubiša Stojmirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? (No) Ambassador Goran Kovacevic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38482	The law on the protection of customers of financial services in a remote contract certainly could not be the subject of an analysis by the Serbian Parliament that the Republic of Serbia has not brought its macroeconomic parameters to a stable level since 2015. When we talk about this stable level, then we need to remember the agreement with the IMF, which was concluded in February 2015, which allowed between the three things we should have done, which is certainly fiscal consolidation, strengthening the financial sector and structural reform, that the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia is leading a stable monetary policy. With the inflation rate now at 1.1% in the first six months and a base inflation rate of 0.8%, it is quite clear that in the next six months of 2018, Serbia, or the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, achieves the planned 3 per cent inflation, plus-minus 1.5%. The dangers that can occur over the next six months certainly concern international developments, i.e. developments in goods and financial international markets, and possible consequences in the area of agriculture, which are primarily the result of droughts. In addition to the incredibly good results that speak about inflation levels, what is even more joyous is inflationary expectations and when you look at these inflationary expectations, then you can understand that the short-term inflational expectations of the economy sector are at 2.5, i.e. the financial sector at 2.8. The mid-term inflation expectations in the next time period are about 2.8, which is definitely saying that Serbia will not go with an inflation rate above 3% in 2019 or above the exact and clearly outlined inflation. If you have such a level of stability in the next period of time, then it is perfectly normal to protect the interests of financial services in the distance of the users and in the interests of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38483	Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38484	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when we started major reforms in the area of economy and public finances, with the support of the NBS, which preserved monetary stability, many did not believe that tangible results were possible in a relatively short time. These results are visible not only on the agenda of the economy and public finances, but also on the modernisation of our entire security system. I mean, first of all, the Army of Serbia. The practice of destroying perspective weapons has been stopped since 2012. After that, an analysis was made, at a time when the defence minister was Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, and a new plan was adopted to develop and modernise Serbia's Army. The first results were already visible in 2014, when three new fighting funds were adopted, five new fighting funds were adopted in 2015, in 2016 seven, and the plan was to enter into Serbia's new 28 most modern fighting systems between 2017 and 2019. What's also important to say is that the consolidation of our dedicated industry has been done. In 2012, out of eight companies that fall within the scope of the dedicated industry, six companies were in huge economic problems, they were in a situation where they could not settle their commitments, to pay salaries to their employees. As early as 2012, a deep analysis of the business and business problems of these companies was made. It started with consolidation since the second half of 2014, so until today, all eight factories have reconciled all obligations towards workers, state and suppliers and practically in all eight businesses have started large-scale works that involve building new plants. First of all, I mean the public company "Jugoimport" SDPR, then the factory "First Partizan", "Freedom" Cačak, "Krusik" from Valjev, "First spark of dedicated production" Baric, "Stat of arms", "Milan Blažević intended" Lucani. What is also important to emphasise is that the export of arms and military equipment from the Republic of Serbia recorded a constant growth between 2012 and 2018. In 2016 alone, the record value of exports of our dedicated industry of $484 million was recorded. This is about 63% more than in 2015, about 80% more than in 2014, twice as much as in 2013 and about three times more than in 2018. Of course, these results would not have been possible, I repeat once again, had there not been a united common policy between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38485	The 2nd amendment was submitted by Zoran Bojanic. Do you want a word? (No) Vladimir Orlic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38486	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, those significant efforts that involve, of course and all that the National Bank does are really important and in the broader context of the development of our common house, our Serbia. In all the places discussed by SNS MPs today and in the city of Belgrade, of course, the City of Belgrade has just chosen a new mayor and city council to congratulate and wish them good work and good results, just as well as those achieved by their predecessors, and it is certainly with diligent work and with good co-operation with both the President of the Republic and with our Government and with our bank. All capable and professional people who sincerely care about Serbia. You'll get results and you'll be outsmarted. When it comes to those jobs that concern the People's Bank directly, that it has a clear, tangible, measurable benefit, so here's just a few information that our public could see just about a month or two ago. I am looking at publicly announced information on the business procedures of the Republic of Serbia in the previous year, it is about special successes. It says - Serbia's economy ended last year with a profit of 437.2 billion dinars, which is twice as much as in 2016 and is particularly prominent, earning a dinar. What they mean, the explanation follows. The companies also enjoyed strengthening the domestic currency where they profited from 37.4 billion. When it works this well, and Serbia is doing well today, then there are positive consequences, for example, on the wages that are measured today in euros, which can be measured and very well followed, precisely thanks to a stable course, are 60 or 70, we talk about the average value, more than they were in 2012. The pensions of the average, despite the temporary reduction law, are again observed today at approximately the same level in euro, and after an expected reduction, i.e. the suspension of the Interim Reduction Act, which will follow in some months, or today, an average increase compared to the period 2014 expected between eight and almost 14%, will clearly raise the result to a historic maximum. These are the things we can be proud of. These are things we have done together, hard, hard work in this country. We will continue to do so, among other things, through the support of excellent laws such as this and in this sense, another congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38487	National MP Zoran Milekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38488	President-in-Office, the esteemed governor with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, well, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. I'd like to remind more viewers, or our citizens who are tracking the transmission, if they're tracking the video, that this is practically another one from a set of laws regarding information communication technologies. We adopted the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification, Electronic Administration in 2017 and 2018. So now this law is actually going to further improve the use of these information communication technologies. We have also passed many laws relating to banking and finance, but such laws, which represent communication and logistics support for faster and better functioning, because only improving these information technologies, which is to be said for citizens' sake, was one of the priorities set by the government, so that in one part it shows the commitment and responsibility of the government, that what it has promised, adheres to its priorities in a legislative sense, and of course later in implementing these laws. I would like to point out that many of my colleagues have affirmed the harsh, clean indicators of economic growth, employment, dinar stability, meaning all aspects of one economic and social life since the SNS has been in power that are clearly comparable to the previous results of the work, the previous regime. Some opposition MPs who don't normally have come here and in inappropriate words, even insults empty, I have to use the term, frustrations and then leave, but I'm glad these two days I'm watching the governor deal with the facts, because the results of the National Bank's work are evident. Government policy, the ministry is committed, responsible. Second, in addition to all the entities that participate in all aspects of one social, state, economic life of one state, an important lever, although I am a doctor I understand is a national bank with my professional people. I'm a little older man, headless, family, the question is, how does something work? At this point, it's Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic. She was a real, professional, committed head organized by the National Bank. I guess, knowing her, she'll say, which is true, she has great associates, but if the conductor can't manage them, expertise sometimes goes left and right. I'm glad these laws are related to the banking system and business and the National Bank are now coming. My colleagues were, I repeat, clear indicators. Which someone tells falsely and uglyly, it honors him, but this is all verifiable based on clear indicators and parameters. The governor, I have to speak to her, has justified the trust of both the SNS and the government and the president of the state, which is a big deal. She qualified you to still be where she is, and I know that one term is short. I used to be a dean, you're doing a great job, but only in your second term are you even better, so I want you to have another mandate with complete confidence, with all your heart, not just a party, but I know your professional, ability, value and commitment, and that you're the right man to be in your place again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38489	Jovica Jevtic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38490	The Honored Chairman, the esteemed Governor with fellow Members, the honourable MPs, I am submitting an amendment to Article 2 for the proposed legislative solution which further specifies the link between the proposed legislative solution and the uniform development of the Republic of Serbia. I would first and foremost like to praise the work of the NBS over the past period, as well as the work of resorient ministries related to the financial sector, because during this period the Republic of Serbia achieved and maintained price and financial stability by meeting its legislation-specific basic objectives and contributing to creating a more stable business, reducing internal and external imbalances, lower borrowing costs, greater income available, speeding up economic growth, significantly lower risk premiums, as well as repairing the country's credit rating. Article 2 defines the meaning of the terms used in the law. A number of legal concepts of the Institute retains the meaning of certain other laws, such as a financial contract, which is governed by the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services or the concept of an investment company established by the Capital Market Act. The proposed legal solution will have a positive impact through greater availability of financial services and greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market, so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that responds to their needs, no matter how far the nearest exposure is. Financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise remotely financial services in a reliable and predictable way and thus conclude contracts with users. In particular, it is necessary to highlight a provision that allows a contract to be concluded up to a certain value in electronic form and without a qualified electronic signature used by a client of a financial institution. This is a very important provision of the bill, given the insufficient prevalence of the use of this signature in natural persons. Finally, it should be pointed out that the financial sector is certainly the fastest to monitor trends in technological development, i.e. digitalization. It is simply a reality and proposed legal solutions are certainly a step towards speeding up these modern processes, and all in order to progress in all areas of social life, because the realistically all mentioned spheres of social life on this basis, as a basis, have finances. The amendment goes towards supporting the idea of a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia, I have often mentioned this earlier in my previous exhibitions. Realistically, this is quite difficult to implement, but it is certainly the idea to further define the segment in future proposals for legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38491	The second amendment was submitted by Borko Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38492	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the esteemed governor with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the basic concepts and implementation of this law provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on the development of health care. The creation of a single legal framework for the protection of users when contracting all relevant types of long-distance financial services also strengthens the confidence of users in financial service providers. The law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote bargaining would also ensure compliance with EU rules in this area. Given that the use of modern technologies in providing financial services is one of the important factors affecting the further development of the financial market, and that the use of these technologies requires the regulation of additional rules, so that users of financial services are best informed and protected, the regulation of this area is of particular importance both for the use of these services and for financial institutions. In this way, it also has a positive impact on the development of the Republic of Serbia, and thus on the development of healthcare, which has been the most contributed by the financial stability of our country, which is the success of our President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, our Government, the National Bank headed by Governor Mrs. Tabakovic. On behalf of the patients of Podrinja, I ask the Minister of Health, Mr Loncar, State Secretary Prof. Vekic, our government, the National Bank to assist the Loznica Hospital in the procurement of scanners and X-rays, which are necessary for the diagnosis of pathological conditions, and the need for these checks is unfortunately increasing every day. As part of the radiological service, the password hospital has an excellent and professional tub, but the necessary equipment is missing. It would be a valuable help to severe patients if they were not harassed by travelling to other cities, by making an appointment at private diagnostic centres for which services are hard to find necessary funds, and by quality of health services, we would be at a far higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38493	Sreto Peric submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38494	The role of the Central Bank in each country, including Serbia, is of paramount importance and the fact that one member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is dedicated to the Central Bank indicates enough. And we expected that this bill that in the economy and in the lives of citizens would not mean much, it is one procedural law, that it would be better written and proposed to us by the MPs. But it's not like that. The relationship to other regulations, the title above Article 3, is a relationship to other regulations. Legal theory defines law enforcement. The application of rights has been defined, so this is absolutely unnecessary, even a complete Article 3 is not necessary, and the title above Article 3 is not supposed to exist at all, because everyone here is still calling for the Law on the Protection of Consumers, Consumer Protection, Liabilities Act, Personal Data Protection, that's all that will be applied, it's completely normal. Mrs. Jorgenka, you should have paid more attention to protecting businesses, protecting individuals from banks in Serbia. The prices are extremely high most likely in Europe. Some places don't have the competition of banks. There is only one bank in a certain one, and there are many such places in Serbia, they send perhaps in the first half of the year to all the economic operators of their tariffs. They are extremely unfavourable for economic operators. This will not contribute to the improvement of the conditions in the economy, nor to the individuals, only it can be harmful. As a colleague asked for the assistance of the Minister of Health, I would only ask one question, which already poses a problem for the locals of Brasina, between Loznica and Mali Zvornik, since there are a large number of asylum seekers, and for the time being, they do not threaten the locals of that village, but there is a danger, if we have a MP such as Meho Omerovic, who has stolen in another country, then these citizens, or they are creating a fear of stealing, they usually enter their rooms, sometimes nights, I am afraid that citizens will not get diarrhea, as Mr Meho Omerovic did during the theft, so these too may be in fear of getting into it, so I would ask the Minister of Interior or perhaps this refugee commissioner to try to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38495	The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Milorad Mirčić and jointly by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38496	Here this Article 3 says that this is actually related to other legal solutions. It would be interesting to hear an explanation of how, say, the data protection law to make sure that it protects the data contained in JMBG. It is unique in Serbia, and this was introduced by these bulldozers of the revolution, that all data on the day, date, day, month and year of birth are contained in JMBG. The following numbers mark the areas in which the person lives, then the region, or micro-location in which the person resides. So, that information when you have, it's quite enough for you to know everything about a person, not only when it comes to the application of this law, but also when it comes to abuses against individuals. We are aware that this progress, this avant-garde pro-European, brings only what is bad. Remember only after October 5th that they served us the story of Europe. The story of Europe was like a story of communism – everything will be honey and milk, just so we can get into that Europe. You can see how this blows over citizens' heads instead of talking about the cost of living today, how to affect the reduction of oil prices, how to cut taxes on many products where it shouldn't be, to see how without credit to improve the standard of citizens, we deal with these things that can really wait, it's no problem, and we deal with individuals where their parties still remain silent, just don't advertise about the greatest shame that has been brought to parliament, and that's stealing from Mecca Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38497	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want to talk? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Parliament Maria Janjusevic. Does he want to talk? The third amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Vesovic? Does anyone want to talk? An MP named Srdjan Nogo submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38498	On Monday, the governor said she was shocked to find out that 30m euros out of the country each year were exported through payment cards. So, three American payment cards, a Master and a Visa carry out 30m euros each year, and she rightly said it should be put under control and force Dina's card to establish our system. However, she said that in the same period, it means from 2005 to 2018, 13 years, that is 390 million for these three cards, and the business banks that amounted to only 600m euros in the period. These figures themselves when compared you see that this finding absolutely cannot be true and correspond to the truth. I am behind the claim that in the period from 2007 to 2016, only during that period did the business bank secrete 30 billion euros through simulated legal dealings with the issue of false loans, i.e. by entering a mortgage owned by a bank. Thus, by four and a half billion euros, they damaged the budget. Furthermore, you well know that interest is considered to be more than 2% greening per month, that it is considered greening and is a criminal offense. Now, imagine the situation when the Swiss franc suddenly jumped overnight. At that time, the banks achieved interest, i.e. benefiting from that 2% a month, it also exceeded 10%, but it did not show up as interest but as a course difference. It's identical effects and the consequences of the debtors have been carried out. You didn't react, no one in this country reacted to protect these people. We can watch the same thing when there was a jump in the euro, in the period when the euro jumped from 2008 to 2011. The key thing is, when you're hiding information about bank business and bank control, you're actually an accomplice to banks, because that way those people who complained about banks can't get information about their work from you, so they can't possibly ask for damages. Here's just one example. You have agreed with the business banks, so on the basis of confidence that only on the basis of the authority of the business bank Forced payment Kragujevac removes money, believing that banks will not abuse trust and forge or forge client authority, and in only one case, the bank has downloaded the money to the client and in the court has proved that the bank has forged and forged documents. He has a judicial decision and DMD Holding, Arminus and Kor Trade have writtenly informed you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38499	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38500	However, do you know that the non-implementation of the judicial justice... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38501	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38502	Thank you. This amendment, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely, suggested that the words ‘not governed by this law’ should be replaced by the words ‘not covered by this law’. Article 3 defines the relationship of this law to other regulations. Otherwise, this amendment is not just a legal-technical nature because it is different when we say that certain issues of consumer protection are not covered by this law and that it will apply the provisions of the regulations that are in force, and it is quite different when we say that they are not done. For the law to be passed would not be determined by the matter that was made. Many issues related to the protection of users of financial services, consumer protection, financial services, which are subject to a distance contract in relation to the business of financial services providers with bonding and personal data protection are already governed by positive regulations. Some of the provisions that the law will apply also apply to users of financial services, which will form contracts at a distance that have not entered into the text of the law that we are talking about today. The SRS parliamentary group is of the opinion that there was room for the proposing and the provisions to be introduced into this law, in order to be more precise and comprehensive. It wouldn't burden this law and it wouldn't be excessive. What I have to say is that Meho Omerovic, and earlier, there was a discussion that it was simply not cultural, and I can say, just to remind myself that Meho Omerovic forgot the code of fine conduct that comes into the elementary school, that it's not lying, that it's not stealing, that when it's going to jail, when you go to jail you get fleas, and whoever has fleas, I brought it, to protect yourself with spray, and to sort of secure yourself from such attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38503	On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38504	Article 3 The proposal for this law should be deleted because it burdens the legal text, because all of this in Article 3 should be the subject of one of the sublegal acts. This is usually the manner of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I also see the National Banks burdening the legal text in this way. I'm a graduate lawyer and I speak legal language with lawyers, but when I want to explain something to people who aren't lawyers, then I always use a plastic example. I will now use a plastic example of the government of the Republic of Serbia's plastic card, used in September by Zoran Mihajlovic, at a distance in New York. She then spent about a million and a half dinars on that card, due to 895,951 dinars. It's been spent on rags, on underwear, and on makeup. If it had been this law then Meho might have had a National Assembly card, so at least he would have paid with a card, wouldn't have stolen, so he would have returned here, as Zorana Mihajlovic returned when she was caught stealing. So this bill of law won't help most people who can't use payment cards, we've said it multiple times, even when it's law. You see, we have instructed examples and possibilities of using a payment card by a governor who has over 500,000 dinars of salary, so Zorana Mihajlovic who used money from the budget, a government card. We ask the governor and ask the representatives of the government – how will the payment cards be used by millions of people in Serbia who work for guaranteed wages and from this guaranteed salary, amounting to 26,000, five to ten thousand have to return the boss to their hands? These are the key issues and questions we're looking for the answer to. Of course, we ask the representatives of the authorities to answer the issue of Meha Omerovic, who came to the Assembly as a member of the party Rasim Ljajic, but he was on the list of SNS, and that party must indeed solve this problem because it is unacceptable for Meho Omerovic to be at the head of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and that he may think that he will chair that committee, because from Sunday we have, among other things, the law on the agenda, the law relating to human and minority rights, namely the election of the Council of National Minorities, which will be held somewhere in September and the actual calling depends on this law, and do not count on Meho Omerovic to be able to lead that session. I'm sure he won't. Take care of it in time, you're better off.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38505	Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38506	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are still a few objections to certain points of this law, and they refer to penalties. Thus, the service provider undertakes to use a high-level electronic identification scheme when confirming identity, in accordance with the law governing the electronic document. This scheme implies that the financial service provider ensures that the issuer of electronic identification means provides identification data within the means of electronic identification corresponding to the person to whom the asset has been issued. It's a little ruckus. Basically, this means that banks need to control the MUP, because electronic identification funds are provided by the Ministry of the Interior. If the financial service provider does not provide this, it will be fined from 500,000 to 2 million dinars. Such failures happen when laws only translate from English into Serbian, without checking whether it is applicable in Serbia at all. There are many other examples like this in our legislative system, and therefore laws are not implemented, it is impossible. In three months, we'll have a situation where if the financial service provider doesn't record everything that's said during the negotiations, he's screwed. If he doesn't prove he didn't say something, and he should have, the fine is between 50 and 800,000 dinars. And with how many MPs will Meho Omerovic be punished, who with his petty theft has roughest brought down the dignity of the National Assembly? We want to say that in Serbia, not all conditions for this kind of business have yet been achieved in a fair manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38507	National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dubravko Bojić, together with Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38508	How come I'm with them? I just don't get it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3 of this proposal regulates the relationship of the law to other regulations as you have stated in order to avoid difficulties in the application of the law and to protect all users of financial services. Given the still insufficient distribution of qualified electronic signatures by natural persons, it is possible for a distance contract of up to 600,000 dinars to give consent by using a two-factor authentication method, you will agree that this does not sound the most understandable, it would better be two elements to determine the identity of the users. And when we know that despite individuals in a narrow sense of the word, the law applies to entrepreneurs and farmers alike, because these entities also need to enjoy the same degree of protection of rights and interests in remote bargaining, but there may be problems here when we know that the general level of their financial knowledge is not at the level of companies that possess larger material resources and higher professional capacities. All of this, in my opinion, is hasty, hasty, and the fruit of the kitchen is well-known European laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38509	Thank you, Professor Boyich. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38510	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, such a restrictive Rules of Procedure cannot be made applicable in the form of amendments, only unfortunately to the first four members and one of the five proposed financial laws. For example, the proposed NBS Act in Article 9, I quote - the minimum number of members of the Executive Board according to the proposed solution is three, not four, as it has been so far. It is therefore necessary to also prescribe a new quorum for holding the session. Now that most of them are present, i.e. two how to secure most if one is against. Furthermore, the application to the proposed Law on Payments in Article 3 should be subject to the above limit of the maximum amount of payment services, all in order to protect users of services on large-scale charges. Then, on the Financial Security Act in Article 20, another position was to be added and to regulate the netting of the obligation, i.e. risk management when it cannot be settled, and bankruptcy is not sufficient to settle the total claims and obligations. In the end, I would ask the congregation's majority to agree to Meha Omerovic for his cheek and honor to resign, because he did not only harm himself, but also to this high home and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38511	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38512	Since we have found these days that these five laws that the NBS passed could have been in the process many years ago, so the first week that the governor came into office, she could have solved these problems with the interbank transaction and a few of the good things that exist in these five laws. It's only five good things, but what we certainly know is that the banks are foreign to this country, that our entire banking system is a side, that these same banks are 500,000 euros out of our country every year, and then it would be nice for them to be our expert and as a real representative to answer the next question. How much in these 500,000 euros is the profit, how realistic is the loan taken by our citizens? So how many consumer loans are there? If we know that it was mostly consumer loans and they weren't developmental because nobody in this country last year could open any private business, and no one in these banks could be in charge of opening a private business. Exceptionally, people were in charge of repaying their debts, as well as spending. That consumption where they realized? In foreign chains and foreign markets. What's sold in foreign markets? Foreign goods are being sold. Now, you tell us how many per year foreigners take it out of our country, if it means 500,000 euros, only banks in the form of profits, then how many of these foreign chains take their profits out of our country based on credit, what do we owe to these foreign banks? It's a simple bill for you, and that's a question for the governor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38513	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38514	I suppose Mr Marinkovic that you know, and Mrs Gojkovic knows who Madison Kiz and Sloan Stevens are, but I don't think Mrs Tabakovic knows who these two people are, because if she knew, because this is a very important law for her, she would ask you at the office to interrupt the session, because at the moment, there's a more important match between Madison Kiz and Sloan Stevens from the National Assembly. So we don't have the opportunity to address the citizens of Serbia directly now, but when the semifinal of Rolandgaros is finished tonight at some point, maybe one of these tired farmers, exhausted and hungry pensioners, people who have lost their jobs, because of insomnia, due to misery and poverty, will include a second programme and see that there is talk of a law that has nothing to do with their current problems and real life. If that were the case, it also says the fact, which the governor should know, so that if she wanted to do something good for Serbia that praises the SNS MPs here, then she would have suggested amendments and additions to the law on bankruptcy that is good, which is not the one that suggested, she insisted that this law be the first to be discussed, to be spoken of in amendments, because there are currently 2,063 businesses in Serbia. You are also well aware of Mr Marinkovic, who are in active bankruptcy on June 5, 2018. It's amazing, Mr. Marinkovic, that you don't know yet, says Mrs. Radeta, and rightly for subfling me, I thank her for whether Meho Omerovic will resign because of what he did. This made a fuss at the end of both your party and the list of Alexander Vukic, as Serbia wins, where it is, but he does not care, it is obvious, and neither do you, because by any gesture, you did not condemn in a word that an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia steals at the Frankfurt Free Shop. That's why it's important for you to have a debate here right now, and in that time Madison Keyes and Sloan Stevens are fighting for millions on Rolandaros, the governor doesn't care, she doesn't know anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38515	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the provision of financial services at a distance. This is another European law that will not be able to live with us in practice. What does an ordinary man, our ordinary citizen get by this law? It doesn't get anything, especially if we know that the largest number of our population is informational illiterate or not written enough and, now that we introduce this law where they simply won't be able to cope, we're just going to create additional problems for them. This team before we know that high-tech crime is on the rise. A man who is ignorantly informative enough to click one click with a mouse on his computer, laptop, tablet, cell phone, etc. and goes all the wrong way, goes the money from the current or the jury account. So you had to take care of the need to protect yourself from high-tech crime. However, it is clear here that this government does not care about preventing this ordinary classical crime, even the most primitive one. We saw that one MP of the ruling majority, Meso Omerovic, was stealing. He was caught stealing from the airport. He called for diplomatic status, but everyone here and in this room, both in the government and in the ruling majority, is making themselves crazy about that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38517	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38518	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts should regulate the relationship of this law to other regulations. However, some items are not precisely defined and hide a certain danger. One such item is the authentication of the user itself where paradoxically no authentication elements are defined, but are listed as required two elements. Also, what's a big problem is the lack of electronic signature terms of up to 600,000 dinars. If the physical signature is required in the physical conclusion of the contract, it is also necessary to require electronic signature in electronic business. The further explanation of this bill is that there are practical problems when applying an electrical signature, which is a legitimate tendency to facilitate business, contract conclusion and the like, but the problem is not solved by setting up a vaguely defined criteria for user authentication already one system solution - by making a register of persons who will have a purpose, such as the physical variant of the parent book born or at least by making an online register as an official state agency or institution. In the end, I would ask you, Mr Marinkovic, is it true that Mr Meho Omerovic at the Office today handed over his resignation as MP after his poor and miserable thieving?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38519	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. I'm not informed about that. We'll check it out. The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38520	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Governor Tabakovic with his associates, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts, which defines and determines only the relationship to other regulations. The issue of the protection of users of financial services is a key question to which this law answers. In addition to this law, provisions and regulations governing and laws relating to the protection of financial services, then consumer protection, then the provisions of the laws relating to financial services subject to a distance contract, then a number of laws relating to contract law itself, bonding relations, but also the protection of personal data shall apply. A certain type of financial service contract is concluded exclusively in writing. However, a new newspaper is now being introduced by this law. The word is on distance bargaining, that the contract can also be concluded using remote communication means in the form of an electronic document, but with respect to certain standards and standards. We need to use a qualified electronic signature and the maximum value that can be concluded is up to 600,000 dinars, without the use of so-called. a qualified signature, but if really two key elements confirming user identity are respected, it means authentication, but also using a high-level electronic identification scheme, and all of these are procedures that really detailed and elaborated by the National Bank of Serbia. With this law, we have numerous benefits and benefits. Not only is the process simplified, but financial services users today also lower their operating costs, but also the cost of time needed with the use of modern means of communication at a distance and, in this respect, their future business will indeed be facilitated in practice. This law does not apply to high policy, and here we actually want to regulate the rights and obligations of users of financial services, but also to the provider of financial services. With this in mind, I really want to, we have waited a long time for this law to enter the assembly procedure, and it is really wrong for me why we have not made it possible before and made it easier and financial discipline and providing financial services for both users and financial service providers, and I would really like to, because there are no high policy elements here, these are practical solutions that will facilitate and facilitate e-commerce in our country, introduce financial discipline, I call on all my colleagues and from the opposition, which, unfortunately, we do not have many present at the House of People's Assembly today when we talk about important laws from the NBS, but also the Ministry of Economy, to support these really good financial solutions to enable our citizens to have a better quality life, to enable our businesses to move forward as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38521	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Manojlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38522	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, dear fellow Members of the People, to Article 3. I have submitted an amendment in order to further define his relationship with other regulations, and there will undoubtedly be some harmonisation of this law with the regulations already applicable in the Republic of Serbia. I am sorry, Mrs Tabakovic, that here today there are no representatives of the opposition again, especially those of the yellow company. Otherwise, I'd like to, and it'd be easier for me, and I wouldn't be wasting my time preciously on my colleagues, if the SNS told us today what we're applying and what the SNS is bringing as laws, and if they told me how it happened in their time, but I wouldn't mind making that parallel myself. We're talking about some distance payment today. They had this much earlier, but not what was happening in a relatively recent period of time, this distance payment of Chad, Hong Kong, Belgrade, New York, has already been applied much earlier. Today, we introduce a law that allows payment cards to be applied in a much better and more adequate way. They had cards in that period, too. They just called them membership cards. We are today introducing the application of modern technology that through applications every user will be able to make payments in the country, use financial services, make contracts, but they used them in that period, and they just didn't need any app for mobile phones. It was enough for someone to say if they had a card – yes, if the card was yellow – yes, then they use the phone to turn someone in the bank or in the Fund and say – you know what, give this man the money. No cover, nothing necessary, no apps. The only difference is that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38523	Time. Just finish it, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38524	Thank you. We're doing it by the law today, and they're doing it by the law, and that's why there's so many of them in the O.R. today, and that's what their election results are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38525	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I'm reporting for word. Natasa Jovanovic, on what basis? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38526	Just to get away from this Greek statue. Mr. Marinkovic, I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and Article 32, and I really feel obliged to protect the minimum dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at this time, because you were obliged to inform us, since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sessions are public, did RTS, which receives from citizens of Serbia at the tariff number of 150 dinars every month and five billion dinars in 2018 from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and presents itself as an alleged public service, inform you that for more than an hour and until the end, there is probably no direct television transmission of today's session? Here are the people, MPs, who have been in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a long time, and among you who were once MPs of the opposition. Elemental and democratic rights, not us MPs, but the citizens of Serbia who chose us, is to know and to have insight into what we are doing. So, when you're already calling for some value, why don't you tell me, please, any country, here's a country in some environment of ours, where there's a possibility that a session of the National Assembly of Serbia will be held, and that during that time on state television, it's not directly transmitted, but that it has nothing to do with the individual sports successes of our athletes, a tennis match of which it wants to profit from RTS, because it's not enough that it takes from citizens in this way, and during that time there's a debate that might be on the air at RTS at some deaf time of the night? So, Mr. Marinkovic, both you and Mr. Secretary need to provide us with this information whether and when you were informed and what period and what did you take that way, did you rebel to say – people, there have been many billions voted here for you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38527	Thank you. Of course, you know, we can't get involved in RTS policy. We'll check to see if there's any information and, of course, we'll let you know. Yes, a notice has arrived. (Natasa Jovanovic: Why didn't you tell us? You're required to let us know. There's been an announcement, so, okay, thank you for your suggestion. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Does anyone want a word? Olivera Ognjanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38528	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the esteemed governor, during your presentation on a set of financial laws, we were informed that the number of citizens of Serbia who made internet payments reached nearly two million in 2017, and the number of those who made mobile payments had first exceeded one million. This clearly points to a trend in digitisation of a society in which banks predominate by offering clients the use of numerous services via internet and mobile banking, regardless of the place of residence, which imposes the need to improve the protection of users of financial services. Article 3 of the proposed law lays down the way in which a financial contract is concluded at a distance with a qualified electronic signature, two-factory authentication or an electronic identification scheme of a high level of reliability which gives the user different options for choosing the conclusion of the contract. This is another proof that the business policy of the NBS is turned to the user, citizen, entrepreneur, investor, strengthening financial stability. To remind me that 5.3 billion were returned to users on the basis of the NBS decision in 2015, based on a unilateral increase in interest rates, that citizens now have the right to account for their rates in the same type of course under which the loan was granted, that the rate of dinar is 118.16 per euro, or lower than in 2012, and that reserves of over 700m euros were created. This is only a small part of the large number of good results and reforms implemented by the NBS, which contribute to the further development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38529	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38530	The esteemed chairman, a respected governor with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, in the previous two amendments, I referred to what is positive, and it concerns ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the basic concepts and implementation of this law. This law is in line with all financial institutions, especially the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. I must also point out that this law is in line with EU rules, which is reflected in the following - compliance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other. What does this agreement contain? It contains provisions relating to the normative content of the rules. It shall contain a transitional period for the harmonisation of legislation in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement and of the Transitional Agreement. It shall contain an assessment of the fulfilment of the obligations arising from that provision of the Agreement and of the Transitional Agreement. Of course, if all of the above are met, not the provisions, the clauses will stand – they will be fully fulfilled. In addition to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there is compliance with EU rules. In the process of supervision of financial institutions in its jurisdiction, the NBS will, among other things, control and respect the obligations prescribed by law, ensure the protection of users of financial services in remote bargaining and take appropriate measures to comply with all prescribed obligations. The Securities Commission shall adopt a sub-legislative act to regulate the procedure for the exercise of the right and obligations prescribed by this law, while the NBS shall be authorised to establish by means of a sub-legislative act a way to determine the value of the contract where the user is not required to use a qualified electronic signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38531	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Here you go, co-worker, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38532	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected governor with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, in recent years in Serbia has been achieved and maintained through the necessary stability, primarily political, as the basis and precondition for the joint and efficient functioning of all institutions in the country. Today we have a more stable and stimulating business investment environment. Under the conditions of stability achieved, it has strengthened trade and economic ties with abroad, the competitiveness of our economy has been increased, new jobs have been opened. We ended the May moon with 8.4 billion dinars of surpluses, and 37.6 billion deficits were scheduled. Serbia has improved its image in the world, and this is important from both political and economic aspects. This is the result of the committed and responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, of course also of the NBS, and this work is aimed at achieving a common goal, which is a better life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38533	Thank you, colleague. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38534	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Internet payments in many ways make life easier in today's day when we're all busy, we're always in a hurry somewhere. In 2017, the number of users in Serbia who made internet payments reached nearly two million users, while the number of those who made mobile payments for the first time crossed the number of one million. With these laws, we open up the possibility of increasing the number of users of these services, and the most significant option is for young experts and Internet techs to operate via the Internet, which will contribute to the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises. We have often talked about how important small and medium-sized enterprises are for the domestic economy and how much attention is being paid to encouraging those who have an idea to start work to make this idea real. In previous years, the needs of the economy were carefully listened to, and on the basis of the information received, the Ministry of Economy's programmes were prepared to support the sector - micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The rate of growth and development of Serbia depends on entrepreneurial ideas, efforts and entrepreneurship. We need to strengthen the private sector. All the factors involved in the creation of economic policy, including us MPs, are on the same task, that every day we appeal to further step up the work to strengthen the private sector. Soon, the registration of businesses will be done via the Internet. So, on that side, it'll be a relief procedure. So the state creates an environment that promotes the development of entrepreneurship, and business is created, time expands and grows, depending on the effort the entrepreneur makes. We can't stick to the idea of a quick and simple profit. Such a concept does not exist in developed countries that we must imitate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38535	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38536	Thank you, Chairman. A respected governor with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, the overall trend of digitisation of a society that is developing significantly faster in the financial sector, the value of transactions carried out on the Internet in 2017 is around 20 billion dinars and leads to the need to introduce special protection for non-physical users at the time of providing information or conclusion of contracts that use Internet or mobile phones, which creates a risk that the user will, without the necessary explanations, choose a financial product and commit to a contract that does not meet its needs, which may take several years. This law introduces special protection for users of all financial institutions operating on our market, including those not controlled by the National Bank of Serbia. Protection is covered, not only by consumers, but also by farmers and entrepreneurs. Financial service users will feel a positive impact through the wide availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that meets their needs, no matter how far the nearest exposure is. In any case, the already present digitisation in the financial sector is encouraged and users are encouraged to use these services more massively through modern means of communication, additional protection, and in the past year, for the first time, the number of mobile banking users in Serbia has crossed the number of one million users. All these positive effects and financial security contribute to the development of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly conditions are created for further investment in health care and improving the quality of the provision of health services. That is why in the voting day, the SNS will support these proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38537	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38538	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment submitted further defines the relationship with other regulations, because in Article 3. The draft law clearly defines that, in the context of the provision of financial services, the issue of consumer protection is absolutely evident and that the future user in each respect, with good legal solutions, will be protected. As defined in Article 2(2), it is also possible to conclude, by means of means of remote communication in the form of an electronic document using a qualified electronic signature, and in accordance with the law governing the electronic signature, it is clear that it is very important that the user, using the electronic signature instrument, is confident and has confidence in the transmission of information from source to destination, i.e. when the transmission of the service from reception to delivery is carried out. The user should also be sure that the information will be transmitted within the guaranteed time limit, in the form in which it is sent, that it will be visible to the participants in the system only to those he is familiar with, and good, quality, secure infrastructure and connection are expected from the service provider. Such legal solutions make citizens of the Republic of Serbia more confident in the functioning of the system in the Republic of Serbia. That citizens recognize and value the results of the work, respect and feel the results of the hard work of President Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through various indicators, undoubtedly confirm from the elections by supporting a good, safe and responsible team. It is recognised for citizens and it is clear that the work of the National Bank of Serbia has low and stable inflation, that it has a stable exchange rate, that it has lower interest rates on loans, and this is confirmed by good legal solutions in the interests of Serbian citizens who are on the agenda today. The creation of new jobs, increasing the financial capacity of our citizens lead to an increase in the number of financial services, and thus contributes to the responsible work of leadership by coming to the power of the SNS and, consequently, work intensively to create conditions for the better quality of life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38539	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Here you go, colleague Zeleg.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38540	Thank you, Chairman. To Article 3. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the protection of financial services in remote bargaining, adding item 5, aimed at harmonising the proposed law with other regulations and ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, referring to the state administration. The bill regulates relations with other regulations. In order to avoid difficulties in application, it is envisaged that the issue of protection of non-legislative users is properly applied to provisions, regulations governing the protection of users of financial services, consumer protection, financial services subject to a distance contract, the business of financial service providers and the protection of personal data. The main objectives of lawmaking are to improve the rights of users of financial services and to further protect them, as well as to more precisely identify practical issues in remote bargaining, as well as to bring domestic legislation into line with EU law. This provision of legislation that provides for the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU law has multiple meanings for the Republic of Serbia. The first reason is the unequivocal determination of the government of the Republic of Serbia to keep Serbia on the European path, and President Aleksandar Vukic's diplomatic efforts further strengthen this decision and today, after a long number of years of expectation, we have a clear deadline for joining the society of EU member states. The second reason for the adoption of this law is to further facilitate the inflow of foreign capital. According to data from the National Bank of Serbia in 2017, direct foreign investments amounted to 2.1 billion euros, although 1.7 was planned. In order to accept the amendment, I call on my colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38541	Don't be angry, I have to interrupt to respect the weather. Just so you don't think I don't want to let the thought or sentence end. Thank you for understanding. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38542	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed Governor with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, through Article 3 or points of Article 1 of the 4th, has defined the relationship to the other regulations to which I have submitted Amendment 3, which adds Article 5, which reads - by harmonising this law with other regulations provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. By preparing the amendments that I have submitted to this law, I have analysed in detail all the members of the law and I can freely say that the aim of the legislative proposal is to reduce the risk, that the user, for the reason that the representative of the financial institution is not physically present at the moment of providing information or conclusion of the contract, will choose products and commit to a financial institution that does not meet its needs and therefore bear the consequences for many years. This law also protects users from providing and charging services which they have not requested, since it is explicitly prescribed that they are exempt from any obligations in the case of services which are not ordered, such as a case with a particular type of insurance where the user is not even aware that he has any obligation, nor has he requested those services. I must stress that the adoption of a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts would bring EU legislation into line. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Government worked hard and did a lot in the previous period, set goals and priorities, and we all needed far-reaching goals that helped us to overcome the obstacles that we encountered and which they set daily. Fortunately, our goals were stronger and clearer, and it was easier for us to fight for them and guarantee that we would realize them. Once again, I would like to stress that this bill has detailed the right to inform financial services users.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38543	Thank you, Doctor. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38544	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor of the National Bank of Serbia with fellow Serbian citizens, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 3. The bill added attitude 5, which points to compliance of this law with other regulations and provides for Serbia's overall development, with a special reference to local self-government. The proposed law contains several of the most important principles. This is an improvement of the business environment in Serbia, which is to reduce the cost of the economy in the business of payment cards and on the line of trade, creating an assumption that further development of the financial market, in particular in the part of removing obstacles to the development of local, international repo markets and financial derivatives markets, additional protection of financial services users, through increased transparency and provision of these services, in order to make it easier for each citizen and economic operator to make the right decision on the choice of services and financial institutions in line with its real needs. Of course, the Bank of Serbia seeks to support and reach the use of modern technologies in services provided by financial institutions, given the needs and needs of financial services users in the 21st century. This set of laws, of course, should be supported and, of course, if you have the strength and the time, and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38545	Thank you, Comrade Tarbuk. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38546	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. A prominent governor with co-workers, co-workers and fellow MPs, the dinar, from a currency that served as a mockery, avoidance and exchange in foreign exchange, a currency that had reached 117 dinars per euro during the previous Governor Šoškovic's 80 dinar relationship to the euro, became a stable currency that strengthened 0.3% in the period from August 2012 to May 2018, although it was a period of significant turbulence on the international market. The preserved stability of the exchange rate has contributed to a low and stable inflation that has led to the balance of domestic finances. The record stability of the course contributed that the share of exports of goods and services to GDP jumped from 36.2%, GDP in 2012 to 54.4%, in the first quarter of 2018. Such stability has proved to be a good basis for deepening lasting and successful co-operation with the world. This is also evidenced by the strengthening of competition in the financial services market, which has been seen in issuing two permits to work in the banking sector, representing the first "grinfield" investment in the banking sector since 2008. The domestic foreign exchange market has stabilised, strengthened through the introduction of Russian underwear, Chinese jaun, Turkish lira, Bulgarian left and Romanian leu, which has further strengthened economic relations with these countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38547	Thank you, colleague Lukic. On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dr. Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38548	I would like to say something that I think is very important, that for future economic development, we need a dinar that is neither underrated nor overrated for a stable economy. That's what you have to do. He must be stable and his price must be realistic. What are your tools? You have a reference interest rate. The reference interest rate is about 3% here. At that interval - plus minus, she has to move. Secondly, we have, as far as I have information, good foreign reserves, about 10,550.6m euros, right, if I'm right. It means quite enough to ensure that the money is not overrated and underestimated, because both are very dangerous. Since 01.01.2019, as the National Bank, you have assumed jurisdiction over exchange operations and foreign exchange operations. These are two operations or two independent actions that could endanger stability. It's a good thing you took it from the IRS. You wrote there that you would take over, I don't know, 60 workers etc. Please don't have to do this by the workers who went physically from the IRS to you. That's what young professional people have to do. Control must be present, our economies in our society, we lack control. We build a project, we secure a job, we do a job, we finance it, but there's no control over the quality of that work, no responsibility. It's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38549	Thank you, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38550	What? Just a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38551	I have time to respect. I'm in the deep end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38552	Only this surveillance must be present in these exchange offices that are very, very, very...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38553	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38554	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Governor Tabakovic and his fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment in Article 3 to point out the importance of co-ordinated work by our Serbian president, then the government, the ministry, the National Bank of Serbia and all other state institutions in order to establish a stable base and security felt by investors in the past six years, resulting in an increase in investment in Serbia, without the sale of property into indemnity, as was the case with the previous government. Inflation at the end of 2017 was 3%, constantly working on financial stability, to provide even better business conditions for the economy and to achieve stable and sustainable growth. In these fields we got the best grades from the IMF, which has been confirmed through eight successfully completed revisions of the arrangement. The National Bank supports the emergence and development of different opportunities for investing in the population, since it promotes the growth of competition and creates more favourable conditions for citizens when placing free money, so that citizens can now freely and without fear of investing and saving in both state securities and pension investment funds, insurance companies and actions. Many new opportunities have been opened and security has been achieved in the fiscal and monetary market, thanks to the valuable and professional leadership of the National Bank of Serbia. Thank you for that. With this bill, the National Bank of Serbia wants to protect users from providing and charging services they did not ask for. Users are exempt from any obligation to provide services which are not ordered. This law is in line with the government's priorities, that, with the development of modern technology, laws are adapted and accelerated. This is how responsible authority works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38555	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38556	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, MPs, based on all these statements on the results of the NBS, what we can conclude is that from 2012 to today we have received a dinar as one of the four worst currencies, in 2012, means they have passed the path to the second best currency not only in the EU, but also in the region. What is important to say is that this monetary stability and stability when we talk about inflation at all, when we talk about a political and economic environment in which we have a certain monitoring of macroeconomic trends, in fact, only now conditions are created, after this long and painful work, that Serbia goes one way towards accelerated growth and development. The rapid growth and development are best seen in the budget surplus last year, which was 33.9 billion dinars, and this year for the first five months 8.7 billion dinars. It means that conditions have been created to increase wages and pensions, but also consumption itself, which will certainly lead to the creation of new jobs and these foreign direct investments, which were two billion euros for last year, will certainly be much bigger now. I would just like to say, thank you, first of all, for the transparency of these special safeguard measures that have been given to this Article 3, when we talk about relations with other regulations and the fact that bank balances are really publicly available documents, since we had the opportunity to hear that you are hiding something here now, and that the course of dinars towards other currencies is also publicly available document. But the price of fuel that we are talking about today, which is very current in some political parties to make some political campaigns, is also a publicly available document, especially when you compare it with countries in the EU region – 26 countries are ahead of us, so we have 22 EU countries, and there are only three countries in our environment that are energy independent when it comes to gas and therefore have a lower fuel price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38557	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Krsto Janjušević, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38558	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, a lot of questions have been asked during the principle discussion, to which you were so pedagogical, with a lot of patience, answering. We heard the opposition's concern that this bill had come so quickly to this tide for discussion. Apparently, they didn't follow what was going on with this proposal before he came here to the Assembly. This proposal before becoming a bill, was a draft law and as such appeared in 2015 in public debates and as I recall, on 23 December 2015 in the organisation of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, in co-operation with the National Bank of Serbia, a public debate was held on which certain suggestions and remarks were proposed. When the draft committee of this law considered all this, this draft became a proposal and so it ended up here with us today. So nothing's been done over the knee, it's just a respected procedure. Obviously, questions are only asked as part of political marketing, questions for questions, and today there is no one here to listen to the answers to these questions. But that's the difference between responsible and irresponsible. The National Bank of Serbia and you, Governor, have shown a high degree of responsibility and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38559	Thank you, fellow Bakery. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's Messenger, Tian the Davidite, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38560	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have tabled the proposed amendment to further comply with other regulations. In the previous period, the National Bank of Serbia made great efforts in comprehensive payment system reforms, by introducing in a comprehensive and comprehensive way the most modern payment services into our legal system and enabling the use of modern payment instruments such as i-backing, em-backking, use of all types of payment cards, digital wallets and other instruments. During 2017, the project of the introduction of the so-called “Introduction” was launched. the instant payment system, the most modern payment system currently in existence in the world, which will allow citizens and businesses to make payments 24 hours a day for seven days a week throughout the year, and to receive those cash in just a few seconds. The start of the instant payment system is October 2018 and it is expected to contribute to greater competition in the payment market and to enable all types of transactions to make more use of the most modern methods of non-cash payment, as well as to enable mobile phones to be paid on sales venues, at prices that are more favourable than the cost of payment card transactions. In the past six years, the NBS has played a very important role in the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia through the accession process, as well as through the accession process. By participating in the work of 11 of the 35 negotiating groups, the NBS included the number of areas for which it was responsible for the role of one of the leading institutions in the negotiations of the Republic of Serbia with the EU. During 2017, business and technical co-operation was established between the “Dinacard” national card systems and China’s “Tea Union Pea” has been established by the governor of the Central Bank of the People’s Republic of China, the world leader by the number of unconnected payment cards issued that are accepted in over 160 countries and territories around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38561	Thank you, colleague. Once again, I ask the Members of the People to strictly abide by the time of two minutes. Thanks again for understanding. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38562	Article 27. Comrade Marinkovic, you have just earlier suggested to your colleagues from the SNS that each of them should stop speaking, because I assume that the MP group has wasted time. Afterwards, you said you were asking all the MPs to keep an eye on each other and that they could only speak for those two minutes. Members of the SRS, alive, healthy, happy, here we are, we haven't wasted our time, and if we want to talk, we can talk for about eight and a half minutes, we have so much time left. So don't act like there's only one parliamentary group sitting here. As a colleague of mine used to say here that he only sits here worthy and wants to listen, of course he meant the MPs of the ruling majority, please make sure that all of you together make sure that we SRS MPs here are very actively involved in the work. You may not like what we're saying, you have a different opinion, you're running a different policy, it's all fine, but you can't and can't ignore the fact that we're sitting here, that we're working here, that we're also suggesting to the governor a certain thing about the proposals she made on behalf of the National Bank, but we're suggesting to the ruling majority to solve the problem of Mecca Omerovic, to put more points on that theft at Frankfurt Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38563	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Surely you know my opinion and respect and the work of all MPs, as is the current situation. In accordance with Article 158, I only intervened with the MPs. They've wasted their time, they've got two minutes per amendment, and frankly, in the spirit of parliamentaryism the best and in the best of intentions, I want everyone to finish a bar sentence or a thought, but I have to insist on doing it within two minutes and not getting through that time. Do you want me to... (The Belief of Radet: It is not disputed, you have only said – I pray all the messengers. I'm sorry. Only those who speak in accordance with Article 158, therefore, proposers of the amendment. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38564	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, Mrs Tabakovic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which reads - by harmonising this law with other regulations, provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving the work of local self-government. General technological development and the growing importance of electronic business in modern life, and in line with the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the promotion and use of information and communication technologies in all areas of the economy and state administration, asks us to discuss these days the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote bargaining, which clearly defines the rights of users of financial services and the protection of these users. The primary objective of SNS policy is the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the development of its local self-government, so I also proposed an amendment that further defines the relationship with other regulations, which together provide for all assumptions for overall development and improvement of the work of local self-government. Serbia, under the leadership of Alexander Vukic, of this government and you, Mrs Tabakovic, is now operating with a surplus in the state register, has become a country with arranged finances, economically stable, in which the gross domestic product is growing, in which there is almost no inflation. It was not easy to get these economic indicators, especially if we know that the country's previous regime left itself at the very edge of bankruptcy that could only survive for a few months. They have succeeded because people who care about their country and its citizens, people whose ultimate goal has been developed and rich in Serbia and a better overall life for all citizens, have managed this country since 2012. Finally, we invite you to accept the amendment that I have proposed that the key word for development is, because only a developed and modern Serbia can be a guarantee of a better, quieter and better-looking future that we in the SNS are aiming for. Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38565	The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38566	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to highlight two facts as a continuation of my previous presentation and on the subject of today's agenda. This is that from 6 August 2012 to 22 May 2018, the euro currency remained almost unchanged. It has strengthened some 0.3%, foreign reserves, the National Bank's interventions business has increased by 375m euros. This is an example of how politics is conducted in a responsible way in the National Bank of Serbia. From 2008 to 6 August 2012, the dinar lost 33.2% of its value to the euro and despite the large, we remember the huge, enormous spending of foreign reserves and net sales of 5.7 billion euros. This is the difference between responsible policy, responsible financial policy, the SNS authorities of then-Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, today's president of the Republic of Serbia. This is the responsible policy of the National Bank. It is the responsible policy of all those who have taken responsibility for the leadership of the Republic of Serbia. For all of this, of course, in addition to the responsibilities of the people who exercise power, it was necessary to have understanding and support for the citizens. Citizens recognized that this was a crucial moment to save Serbia, save its finances and the future of children who want to stay and make their families in the Republic of Serbia. We have succeeded with the support of citizens and with responsible people in power to achieve great results, we have managed to ensure a future for citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38567	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirko Krlić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legal harmonisation of all the rules of this proposal has an overall impact on the development of the Republic of Serbia, and I will continue to insist that the Serbs in the region are also well seen from this. Just so we're clear, the distance deals aren't paying from a distant Vuk Jeremic. It's something else. That kind of transaction usually has a judicial epilogue. The economic policy of painting and reselling of Topalović's coffins from the legendary film "The Marathons Run the Honorary Circle" by Slobodan Sijana ended in 2012. Billy Pitton of the yellow company, Mile Jerkovic, was arrested, and his followers, regardless of their high functions, follow the same path in various European institutions. The aforementioned Vuk Jeremic, given his post in the UN, was expected to internationalise the issue of Serbs in the region, and he internationalised his wallet. It would be interesting for President Jeremic to take among the Serbs in Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, to explain to them why, why and where so much money from afar and how it is perfectly normal and completely modern in the modern world, to have such transparent transactions. The most interesting thing would be to take him to Kosovo and Metohija, say Staro Gracko and Gorazdevac. My decency requires me not to call the real name of the rod that the people would escort him from. Now, that would be negotiating physical services at a distance. If everything was so easy, Mrs. Tabakovic, this wouldn't have gotten to you, others would have pushed. Convinced of commitment, expertise, honor and honesty, I will vote for your bill, whether you accept or do not accept my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38569	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJibuška Lakatoš was submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Katarina Rakic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Goran Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38570	I would like to introduce Serbia's public to the fact that a general election in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be held on 7 October this year. These elections are very important for regional peace and stability, and are particularly important for more than 500,000 expelled Serbs from the Federation of BiH that still, more than two decades after the end of the war, cannot achieve their national and human rights. 15 days ago, I sent an open letter to the presidents of seven Serbian political parties in Republika Srpska with an appeal to form a common Serb list in the upcoming general elections in BiH for the Federation of BiH, whose goal would be to help as many of our citizens go to the polls as possible and to elect legitimate true Serbian representatives. What is particularly important is to point out that during the previous period, Serbs from the Federation of BiH never had their representatives true and legitimate to most of them, but the representatives of Serbs at the level of parliament of the Federation of Bish and the Canton Assembly, to the greatest extent, chose the so-called. Civil parties based in Sarajevo, the Social Democratic Party of BiH, the Alliance for a Better Future or the Democratic Front. That's what's not good. I believe that through the talks, otherwise I was at a meeting in Banja Luka yesterday, that through talks with representatives of Serbian political parties in Banja Luka, we will come to the ultimate goal of forming a common Serb list, signing a coalition agreement with all Serbian political parties in Banja Luka, and that the joint Serb list will go to elections and achieve a great success on 7 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38571	Thank you, fellow Linta. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Igor Becic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38572	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the measured monetary policy is what has multiple implications for the development of the market for the Republic of Serbia, not only in this regard, but also broadly, because foreign investors are investing in our market. In addition, what has always been the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia is how it affects the average population and its pocket. It is extremely important that we say that we have made it possible to reduce interest rates per loan and that absolutely affects the reduction of the costs of the economy, the state and the citizens. One more thing that is of paramount importance is that we have enabled and established price stability, as well as financial stability, which affects the rise of citizens' standards, their lives, and I hope that the future standard will rise to an even higher level. All mentioned above is the result of an absolutely consistent implementation of the National Bank of Serbia action plan, and given that you have proven that you are consistent in implementing such a systematic policy, I have no doubt that it will be in the future, so I will support everything and one bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38573	Thank you, colleague Janosevic. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38574	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I have submitted to Article 3 an amendment which, in accordance with the amendments submitted on my part to Articles 1 and 2, and only by adopting all three of these amendments would indeed have one appropriate effect in order to improve this law. In fact, Article 3 defines a relationship here with other regulations, and only legally could it be done because the partial coverage of certain substances covered by this law is covered by the Consumer Protection Act, the Law on Liabilities, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. What is good, it is good to see from the very text of this law that a huge effort has been made to avoid any conflict in the further application of these laws which are practically referring to, and are not directly applicable under the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely. It is very important, precisely for the reason I was talking about, which is to protect the widest possible number of users who are not always able to respond properly and at the proper speed to offers they receive from banks or other financial institutions, but they already have the appropriate time to think about them, and even to change their minds if the realization is not respected. In this way it really takes care of a kind of social equality of all the users of banking services, and whether we want it or not, today we are almost all users of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38575	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Here you go, colleague Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed governor with my associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts and the addition to this article of Article 5, which further defines the relationship to other regulations. When adopting new legislation, there may be a conflict with previously passed legal provisions, and therefore this member is required to clarify which provisions are applied in the event that two or more laws regulate the same issue and to highlight the provisions which are not governed by this law. This should in particular be emphasized by the effectiveness of local self-government, as local self-government is precisely the most effective if they apply legal regulations in a timely and correct manner. Since 2013, most local self-government, when at the head of the SNS, has proved to be much more effective compared to earlier periods, due to budget savings, due to the proper spending of money, due to a government policy that insists on the even development of all municipalities and cities. The city of Kikinda, from which I come, was found in 2013 with debts, with destroyed factories and with people who were out of work. Today, after less than five years, the city has no debts, has an industrial zone, one that has been completed, another that ends and several foreign investors who employ people in Kikinda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38577	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38578	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Governor, with her associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft financial laws prepared by the National Bank of Serbia have a basic goal of improving banking business and payment services. The National Bank of Serbia managed to preserve financial stability, a dinar course at the best level, and thus change the country's economic picture. The stabilised currency, low inflation, the growth of the number of employees, all of which are achieved by passing modern laws that follow trends and improving society and the times in which we live. Technological development, electronic business, contributes to the development of new ways of financial services, primarily remote contracts. In Article 3. I propose an amendment to the bill -- item 5 is added: "The harmonisation of this law with other regulations provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the judiciary". The improvement of the judicial system, the efficiency of providing services contributes to creating a more stable society and a more stable business environment. That is why in the voting day, I support this set of laws, as well as other financial laws that have been proposed and I call on my fellow MPs to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38579	Thank you. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Savkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38580	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts reads: "The harmonisation of this law with other regulations provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions". I think it is also very important to emphasise that the proposal for a law on the provision of financial services is fully in line with European Union rules in this area. On the basis of a statement of compliance with the regulations of the European Union submitted by the National Bank, I would point out that these provisions of the bill are fully in line with the European Union rules. Harmonisation of regulations and the adoption of legal fluids of the European Union are the obligations that arise from the European integration process and are a prerequisite for membership. In this regard, implementation of reforms to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are committed directly contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the efficiency of the judiciary. The adoption of this bill makes a significant step towards this goal, when it comes to distance financial bargaining. Given all the facts that I have raised, I believe it is necessary for the positive impact of the bill on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the harmonisation of legal standards in this area to be highlighted. That's what this amendment does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38581	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? The word has Bojan Bag. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38582	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Governor with his associates, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts, which is a logical continuation of what I have proposed to the amendments to Articles 1 and 2. I would use these two minutes to, on behalf of the Socialist Movement, the party I represent in parliament, as well as in my time, praise Governor Jorvanko Tabakovic, who, next responsible policy initiated by the government, led by Aleksandar Vukic, and continued by the government led by Mrs Brnabic, managed to ensure the financial stability of our country. What is fully visible and clear to each citizen is the immeasurable merits of the National Bank of Serbia and Governor Tabakovic, in creating conditions for the country's accelerated economic growth to correct the country's credit rating, reduce inflation, establish stability of the domestic currency, which has contributed greatly to the overall increase in both domestic and foreign investment. Six years of dedicated and responsible work have managed to eliminate in a good way all the bad things that the Democratic Party and its dikes have left behind after their 12-year rule. Robbery privatisation, dinar course drop, country's enormous borrowing, bringing a large number of citizens to the brink of poverty, the Agrobank affair, the "Vojvodina Development Bank", not to forget, and Tesla Bank are only a small part of what we have left after the democratic party's criminal rule. Fortunately, Serbian citizens decided six years ago to give their trust to Alexander Vukic, who, by his work and his vision of Serbia, represents the greatest guarantee to Serbian citizens that the remains of the former protracted regime, led by Jankovic, Gilas and Jeremic, who have been aided by dirty dollars in recent days, are trying to gather in one front ever again and nowhere in this country will return to power, first of all because it is the will of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38583	Thank you, Comrade Torbice. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38584	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed governor of the National Bank of Serbia, with associates, the abolition of the Supervisory Authority over financial institutions, given that a number of financial services are being moved to other financial institutions, such as exchange offices, creates the need for more serious and detailed controls on these institutions. So, exchange offices, which were recently reserved for the banking sector, are slowly but certainly becoming significant participants, transactors in Serbia's financial sector. With increased cash traffic, as well as increased availability of money, businesses and citizens face the need for currency exchangers to be controlled by regulators who are trained and professional in these affairs and those regulators who have successfully implemented bank control from 2012 to today and in an extraordinary way stabilised and made Serbia's entire banking system more slow and internal challenges. Of course, it is about the National Bank of Serbia that in a way that needs to operate on an axia for all state institutions has shown that inflation is contained, inflation is restrained, the course is stabilised, and that the National Bank and its monetary policy instruments are placed in the service of the economy and citizens, not the tycoon. Of course, taking full control and supervisory oversight by the National Bank of Serbia is the only way these institutions work from payment traffic under the law, be well and technically staffed, and work in the interest of the economy and citizens. Finally, I believe that the proposed solution is to continue to serve as a member of the National Bank of Serbia's executive board of directors, as acting as a deputy governor with the rights and duties of the vice governor, extremely well because there is no vacuum but that the term of duration should be 150 days, instead of 120 days, to give sufficient time to choose the right person for this extremely important job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38585	Thank you, colleague Bogatinović. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here's my colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38586	I thank the chairman. I have submitted an amendment in Article 3. The bill adds Article 5, which provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving financial resources. Why is this important and why have I submitted this amendment? Well, first of all, for transparency, for financial discipline, for financial responsibility. It is particularly important to point out that in Serbia, the net inflow on the basis of foreign direct investment has increased from 2.4% of GDP in 2012 to 6% of GDP in 2017. The credit activity then recovers rapidly and in March records an annual growth of around 7.5%, then the growth of credit activity reaches about 14%. Thanks to these NBS interest rates at the level of dinar loans, a strong decline was recorded in December 2012, especially today with almost 11% lower rates for the population and more than 12% for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38587	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's your colleague, Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38588	I thank the esteemed chairman, Dr Marinkovic. Dear Governor, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I also submitted the third amendment to the emphasis on developing underdeveloped areas in southeastern Serbia, to mountainous areas where the stabilisation of our dinar and NBS has shown that it should be handled with Governor Tabakovic. I think what we are doing now is the right place to pass this law, by having to work together on the education of our agricultural producers, people living in the country, living from the village, living in southeastern Serbia, in mountainous mountainous areas. There's no possibility of an electronic charge being made, of providing such funds, but on the other hand, it's very important that we have a stable dinar, which we have the possibility that a large number of our agricultural producers can provide quality loans. I was just talking about the Postman's Savings, that no one resents it because it's a state bank, because that savings bank really works in small areas where there's no other bank. That's where they open their exposures. It's a big deal for all our people living in the country. The easiest way to pay, face to face, is by electronic means it will be in some future period. A large number of our young people who live in the country, who want to provide themselves with the existence, the acquisition of new machinery, the huge herd, the reconstruction of objects, can do that now that they have stable loans, with a small interest, for the exact amount of interest, how much money the bank takes, and that's what we all have to do. I call once again on all fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of my amendment, that all together with our Serbian President, Mr Vukic and our Government, and you, Governor, we all want to give an accent to undeveloped areas, our villages, our agriculture, are witnesses that our village, our peasant saved our country from Serbia. Thank you once again and I call on all fellow Members to vote for my amendments with the aim of giving great support to undeveloped areas such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Khan, Merošina, Književec and a large number of municipalities that have a future, which have the opportunity to work with positive and good loans, but one rule with us, our agricultural producers, is a long, ugly friend.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38589	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38590	Thank you. It is particularly important that Serbia is currently receiving one such law, such as the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in Remote Negotiation, given that all trends in the development of banking in the foreseeable future. Serbia's advanced party led by President Aleksandar Vukic as a modern European party has managed to predict these trends, and by introducing digitalisation into society, especially in the economy and e-government, has even managed to place Serbia in line with a dozen of the best-organised countries in Europe. This process, of course, had to be covered by appropriate legal solutions in order to improve the rights of users of financial services, their additional protection in remote bargaining and to monitor trends in the development of banking in the future. Everything will be much clearer to you when I mention to you only some key trends that will change our habits and ways in which we will pay in the foreseeable future, such as paying by cell phone without waiting for an account, paying for fuel and parking via computers, smart cars, paying for selfies, paying for the pupil's eye and fingerprints, paying for the voice, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38591	Thank you, colleague Djokic. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38592	Thank you, Chairman. The state of Serbia managed to get out of the abyss by coming to SNS by 2012 with the rule of Serbia's largest political monster in its history. A major role in fiscal consolidation, the acceleration of economic development, the improvement of credit rating, and, of course, by the arrival of a large number of investors and the realization of large infrastructure projects, was precisely the NBS and Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic. The results achieved by the NBS were achieved in the context of the major challenges that at certain times required the decision-making and concrete decisions. The wise, responsible and above all professional leadership of the NBS, Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, achieved and maintained Serbia's financial stability and was one of the drivers of Serbia's economic recovery and economic development. That's why I'm so grateful for everything you've done so far, and great support in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38593	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38594	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, and this third amendment is heading towards connecting the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with this law. Article 3 defines the relationship of this law to other regulations. The law will have a positive impact on citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are users of financial services because citizens will have greater availability of financial services and greater choice between financial service providers, so that they will be able to choose a financial service more easily and faster, no matter how far the nearest exposure lies. Serbia must move forward with time, and this is exactly what this law allows. The application of this law will encourage a large number of Serbian citizens to use more mass means of modern communication, as this law guarantees them security, and that is how social equality and overall development of the Republic of Serbia will be achieved. This amendment of mine is heading that way right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38595	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38596	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Governor of the NBS, by order of Article 3. The law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts defines the relationship of the proposed law to other regulations. In this respect, I would point out that the position of the Member referred to above has regulated the issue of the protection of users of services which are not governed by the proposed law. Such a legal situation provides for the application of provisions governing the protection of consumers of financial services, consumer protection, bonding relations and protection of personal data. Also, if the relevant law stipulates that a certain type of financial service contract is concluded only in writing, then a distance contract can be concluded in the form of an electronic document, i.e. using a qualified electronic signature. However, if the value of such a contract is up to 600,000 dinars, the user may conclude the same without the use of a qualified electronic signature if the consent to conclude such contract has given at least two elements to confirm the user identity or use the electronic identification scheme of a high level of reliability. Such a defined provision and any proposed solutions will undoubtedly have a positive impact on both financial service users and service providers. It will not generate additional costs for citizens, and since the provision of financial services is regulated by large legal entities, this small and medium-sized legal persons will not have any additional costs, and it is possible that as clients of financial organisations they will experience its positive effects. Taking all these advantages, we should not have a dilemma that it should be supported, as well as all other legal proposals, which we will do in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38597	Thank you, colleague Veljkovic. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38598	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. When it comes to NBS results, it should also be pointed out that Serbia has been in continuity for five years in a group of countries that are in a stable way achieving low and predictable inflation. From the two-digit level, as it once was, it's incomparably lower today. It has been brought to a level comparable to European countries. By preserving low inflation, we increase the inflow of investments, thereby increasing both production and exports, as well as employment and earnings. In one word, low and predictable inflation makes a big contribution to the overall results achieved, and the results are visible also when it comes to the inflow of foreign direct investment and when it comes to the rate of economic growth and when it comes to reducing public debt and reducing unemployment which is now, we will remind, less than 12% and when it comes to the record tax charge, then the jump on the world's Duing Business List and everything else. For all these reasons, I want to give strong support to all the laws proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38599	Thank you, colleague Markovic. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38600	I thank the chairman. Dear gentlemen of the NBS, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, Article 3 regulates the relationship of the law to regulations and the protection of personal data. I have submitted an amendment in Article 3. The bill adds Article 5, which reads - by harmonising this law with other regulations, provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving health conditions. European personal data protection laws, i.e. on the protection of patient data as an imperative, require that each medical system has an obligation to ensure a high level of data security. In this respect, there is a national health information system consisting of a central information system in health care, national medical records related to documentation and the Health Insurance Fund. All medical data of patients can be divided into three categories – general medical data, contact information with the doctor and additional medical data. The part in charge of data providers has three continents – part in charge of defining the role of the person using the system, part in charge of defining the level of security of individual data and part of information on the persons used. Why am I saying this? Because it concerns the "Selected Doctor" app. The application was downloaded by 34,000 people, and the safety and personal data of the user of the application were not compromised. However, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection Rodoljub Sabic announced that the application for the appointment of doctoral appointments "Selected Doctor" has a deficiency because its data are stored and processed and answered by Minister Loncar, quote: "I don't know what the poet wanted to say? I see nothing but love and obligation to pay the Media Center money from the budget to return to tycoon Gilas... “
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38601	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38602	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Governor, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, except that the law was passed in a completely transparent, completely open way, through public debates, he was, of course, drawn up in accordance with the methodology for making legal rules, so that some of the remarks we heard here were not in line and that some members of the law were not in line, absolutely not standing. Of course, I have to point out that it's Article 3. The bill is extremely important in comparison with other regulations. Why does it matter? It is important that the law has its full implementation, i.e. to be implemented in full scope, it cannot be conflicted with other legal regulations concerning the protection of users of financial services. What my amendment refers to is protecting vulnerable social groups. Dear Governor, I must express my satisfaction that you have recognised vulnerable social groups by this bill, and that is, above all, business incompetent persons, and have provided that in the process of negotiating and concluding a contract with non-profits, the financial service provider does so with their legal representatives and in accordance with their needs and in accordance with their best interests. I must also point out that this law will have a great deal of importance for 8% of people with disabilities, as many of them are in the general population of our population, because in a quick, simple and efficient way they will be able to resolve many payments without any obstacles or administrative barriers. The SNS policy and policy of our President Alexander Vukic is for the lives of all citizens without obstacles. This law goes in favor of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38603	Thank you, colleague. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ivana Stojljković submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38604	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mrs Tabakovic, with her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, daily Serbia sends a message that she is now a stable and secure country, special results in the area of macroeconomic stabilisation and fiscal consolidation have been achieved. We have rightly set priorities and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has entered into difficult and demanding reforms in the right way. By adapting to a situation in which the intention to stabilise finances has been particularly expressed, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to stay in a group of countries that have the best fiscal, macroeconomic and reform results. The results of the work of the National Bank of Serbia are significant what makes Serbia a favourable investment destination. The level of foreign direct investment has already crossed billions of euros, and the stability of the dinars creates favourable conditions for the development of the economy. Thanks to new factories and new jobs, inflation moves within the limits of planned values, creating conditions for safe salaries and job creation. Political and financial stability are mutually conditional. The government of Aleksandar Vukic and the government of Ana Brnabic have led to concrete and visible results, and the measures implemented by the National Bank of Serbia are promoting planned reforms and providing security for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38605	Thank you, colleague. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Col. Popović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38606	I thank the chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen, with the addition of this article to Article 5, which I have proposed further defines the relationship of this law to other regulations, and in order to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the construction and reconstruction of large clinical centres, we have very important investments in health institutions throughout our country. The most modern equipment for hospitals and health homes is provided. Health information and the introduction of an electronic recipe is already standard in 95% of institutions in Serbia. Large steps were taken in the organ transplant area as well as in the area of mental health. Compared to 2012 when 130 million dinars were allocated for the treatment of patients with rare diseases, a billion and 500 million dinars were allocated for the same purpose this year. A fund for the treatment of children abroad was established and this way over 70 of the youngest patients were sent to the best foreign clinics. 7.5m euros will be invested in the reconstruction of the Gynaecological and Obstetrics Clinic in Visegrad, in the Pediatric Hospital in Zemun 3.5m euros, in the Dedinje Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, 17m euros, and in the equipment of the Emergency Centre in Belgrade 3.9m euros. Investment in medical institutions in our country, as well as the adoption of long-term plans for development of Serbia's medical centres, shows that it is seeking to develop the country's overall development and raise the standard of living for all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38607	I thank my colleague. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Col. Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38608	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to all the significant results that you and your team from the National Bank of Serbia have achieved over the past six years, the project that the National Bank of Serbia started to introduce in 2017 should certainly be highlighted. instant payment system. The world's most modern payment system, which will allow citizens and businesses to pay 24 hours a day 365 days a year, and in a few seconds the payee will receive the money. The start of the instant payment work system is October 2018. The SNS doesn't question your responsibility, so we sincerely hope to witness the use of this project by the end of the year. It will contribute to greater competition in the payment market as well as to enable mobile phones to be paid on sales points at prices that are more favourable than the cost of payment card transactions. The National Bank of Serbia wants to encourage greater use of smart mobile phones for daily payments in our country. In view of the popularity of "Ku er code" in mobile payments, it is in constant growth in the world's most developed security economies. In this way, our Serbia is also catching up with the most developed countries in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38609	Thank you. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a colleague of Radičević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38610	I thank the chairman. The esteemed governor with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. The amendment aims to bring the bill into line with other regulations and to ensure Serbia's development, without continued and stable industrial production. I must commend the work of the governor, Mrs Tabakovic, because with the government of the Republic of Serbia, she assures us that we have a stable course of dinars. There are growing numbers of young couples taking loans to buy apartments. Credits have become acceptable and available because interest rates are significantly reduced, and this would certainly not be possible without a stable currency. Another condition for obtaining credit has been met thanks to the responsible and host policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS. By their work, they created favourable conditions for foreign investors to arrive. As they arrived in Serbia, they improved industrial production and allowed thousands of young people to get a job and thus provide themselves with basic conditions for a normal life, which includes resolving the housing issue. By reducing the unemployment rate, reducing the number of beneficiaries of social assistance, increasing the purchasing power of the population, and the state is benefiting from all this, as tax collection and inflows of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget are increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38611	Thanks, buddy. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Malušić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38612	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, Serbia has long been on the grey list because it has not reported any crime in public enterprises. It's been sold to NIS, rarely anyone knows where 450m euros from the sale is. Also, where is the money from "Mobtel". Just imagine how many social protection facilities could be built, how many apartments for a socially endangered population. We all remember the "Hetherland" affair, a yellow company project. I assume you've all heard of the Guards company, whose account has been paid for the adaptation of the Heterland Castle. More than a million euros have been stolen and a deprived home for children distracted by development or do you think that Serbian citizens will believe that the metal board cost a million euros. It can be seen what moral cleanliness is, in particular, about. The government of the Republic of Serbia is working to establish the missing social services prescribed by the Social Protection Act, which will allow for more adequate humane treatment of users in need of social care. Care for the socially endangered population has been shown through this law by opening the current account, and banks are obliged to do so to all citizens who have stayed in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their financial capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38613	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Professor Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38614	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Governor Tabakovic, this law and thus the amendment will contribute greatly to the modernisation of the fast-growing Republic of Serbia. This was the most contributed by the overall stability of our country, which our president and Commander-in-chief Aleksandar Vukic and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic are the most responsible for financial stability, and you are Mrs Tabakovic. Realisation of this law, and in particular Article 3, will trigger the harmonisation of many other regulations, including rules in the field of education and education. It is especially important for future students and our students to have moral qualities in order not to reach out for stolen, or alien property. If Dragan Gilas, called Điki Mafia, possessed moral qualities, would not be directly responsible for the 2011 Telecom robbery, when the state-owned company under his pressure was forced to buy four cable channels of his "Arena sport" for 7.7m euros and so laundered money. That is why this amendment is very important, so that in the future, not all the lesbians and freelets in the image of Dragan Gilas, called the Điki Mafia, Bozidar Djelic, called the Duke of Meridian Bank, would not alienate or rob state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38615	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38616	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Governor Tabakovic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, today when we face rapid changes in our environment and in the world, in order to survive and be a competitive economy, we must monitor all these changes and, of course, adapt to them. In that regard, I have submitted this amendment. It is no doubt that in the first quarter of 2018 we achieved an economic growth measured by gross domestic product of 4.5% and our economic growth is at the level of EU member states, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania. Today, compared with economic growth, we are taking all measures for accelerated economic development and sustainable economic development. This means for the citizens of Serbia, except that we are improving the standard of living of Serbian citizens and hiring people, especially in the private sector, because we want a healthy economy, we are doing everything we can to improve the quality of our citizens' lives. I will remind you that by 2012, citizens were so untrustworthy of the banking sector that they were afraid of current accounts to open, that in 2017 legal solutions, the most modern software applications would reach the number of two million users who made their transactions through the Internet and millions of mobile banking users. On the one hand, we conduct the digitisation of the financial sector and stop the grey economy, because for the competent institutions, all transactions are transparent, and on the other hand we improve the quality of life for our citizens because today they no longer have to wait on counters, but they do their shopping and paying via the Internet from home. All we do is make the citizens of Serbia live better and today the citizens of Serbia really live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38617	Thank you, colleague Charapich. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38618	When we talk about security in the financial sector, it certainly is not disputed that for a low level of inflation, the role of the National Bank is crucial, but it is not only the only one. Stability in the financial sector that would allow the protection of financial service users also depends on the stability that exists on the financial market, i.e. key players on the market. A high level of capitalisation that makes up 90% of the highest quality capital shares makes the banking sector of Serbia one of the most stable. We can't say that it's completely stable because it's simply an impossible category, but it makes us very certain that in terms of financial and business leverage, our banking system can withstand great efforts. Also, if you have 36% of the total liquid assets, that is when 95% of your capital/deposit ratio is. This says that the financial, or banking sector in Serbia deserves every respect and attention. Of course there's a key role for the NBS. I fully agree with my predecessors saying that the National Bank must work on further making normative acts, but also on the function of control. What the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did in the previous months has restored some of the key roles of the National Bank, which it certainly had in earlier times. It is the trading transactions that pass, i.e. the granting and withdrawal of licences, which are transferred to the jurisdiction of the National Bank. More importantly, what I would particularly like to point out is that the functions of supervisory over all the financial transactions with foreign exchanges, actually for natural and legal persons, or corporations, go to the National Bank's supervisory office. The complete system of functioning means that we are today rounding up which we started to round up in 2012. In 2012, you couldn't deal objectively with the National Bank, not enough key, but peripheral things in conditions where inflation is 12%, you had to work to survive, to save the domestic currency and the functioning of the Serbian state. Now we're slowly editing the control system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38619	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, the National MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38620	All the joint efforts, ladies and gentlemen, which we are talking about today and which have resulted in excellent results, of course, would not have been possible if they had not been achieved by common forces. The results that we are talking about really include such a wide range of topics that it is possible to talk about for several days, only in the domain of the economy in this National Assembly, but most importantly remain issues of significantly reduced unemployment, whose rate, I recall, is significantly lower compared to the 2012 period, by 13% at this point. Of course, there is also a public debt which, in fact, today lies below the level of Mastricht, which was in that catastrophic negative spiral that was pushed by an irresponsible attitude towards the state, according to what is common good. It is always worth reminding that during the time of the famous crisis that rocked the whole world, people who unfortunately took care of Serbia did not understand the crisis, did not understand how deep and large and reacted wrongly, reacted by pushing people into greater consumption, pushing Serbia into greater consumption, which actually pushed it into this crisis significantly deeper. Because they did not want to think at that point in the long run in 2012 they decided not to accept the proper advice of the IMF and start self-discipline. On the contrary, they have done everything possible to further task the country with populist measures, show how unserious they are, and that IMF then practically drive out of Serbia. What they planned as their result at budget level has exceeded in a negative direction for the first few months of that year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38621	Thank you, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38622	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. The fact that people who are everything are taking care of Serbia, but absolutely everything they have done is completely contrary to those unserious and irresponsible. This fact is the root of the good results that we have today and that we achieve by working together...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38623	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38624	... and the President of the Republic, and our Government, and the National Bank, and it is indeed an honor to participate in these successes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38625	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38626	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, for the sake of the public and citizens watching the transfer, just to say that Article 3 of the Law speaks of a relationship to other regulations. I'm sorry that the citizens can't see, I've seen the MPs, too, it's illustrated by a table where statistics on transactions were clearly shown online. It shows how many ordinary people, in these last three years, especially since 2015, have been increasingly using these Internet information systems. I must say, where I considered myself, at first we were ignorant and we didn't have the confidence to pay online. However, institutions, such as the National Bank and other banking services, and above all, the pillar of the banking system is NBS, and in this period it has instilled trust, so that all of us, including myself, who have been afraid of buying and transactions on the Internet, are not talking about large economic entities that have teams, so this shows how much this priority of improving the information system has entered into the ordinary man who is using it more and more. It may again be one brick in building a house, a brick of trust in the system, according to the government, according to the financial and banking system, which has been built over the past six years, and it's a huge benefit. On that behalf, I thank you for the efforts of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38627	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38628	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law should further and comprehensively address the issue of protecting users of financial services in remote bargaining, and allow for overcoming the problem in practice when concluding a contract using a qualified electronic signature, which still a small part of the population uses. The proposed solutions are expected to have a positive impact on both financial services users and financial service providers. The law should contribute to the acceleration of competition, since it enables wider use of means of communication at a distance, and thus access to all potential clients on equal terms for all payment service providers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the process of supervision of financial institutions in its jurisdiction, the National Bank of Serbia will, among other things, control and respect the obligations prescribed by law, ensure the protection of users of financial services in remote bargaining, take appropriate measures to coordinate the conduct of the supervisory entity over all prescribed obligations. Appreciateing the work done by the National Bank and the success in preserving the financial stability of our country, I am convinced that current Governor Mrs Tabakovic will successfully continue to lead monetary policy in the best possible way and in the next term, that our dinar will remain stable, which is most important for all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38629	Thank you, colleague Grubor. The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title above the Article 4 of this Law. Here I want to say that the idea that financial services are provided in the way that this law is proposed, in itself, doesn't have to be a bad idea, but there is no real guarantee that it will indeed be. Our biggest problem is not the way financial services are provided, our biggest problem is that we follow the IMF's instructions. That's a little bit of a talk here, but I want to point it out. So far, there has been no case of any country in the world that has developed its economy thanks to the IMF. So, thanks to the IMF, we today have these fuel prices, these buying-in prices of raspberries, this price of cherry, these buying-in prices of other agricultural products, and this much dissatisfaction with Serbian citizens, who are protesting in various ways today. Thanks to the IMF we have these and salaries and pensions, this government itself says, however, they are fair and they say - whether we will raise salaries and pensions must agree with the IMF, i.e., directly acknowledge the height of our salaries and pensions is decided by the IMF. If all these things are in mind, then I really don't know what we're talking about here. So this way of paying by itself doesn't have to be bad, there's a lot of problems, that's what I've been talking about in my previous amendments, but simply, this is a crucial problem, we have to get under the claws of the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38631	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38632	The debate on amendments is coming to an end and they're asking the citizens at night when we're going home if we're going to be able to talk about the National Bank. Unfortunately, we won't, because it's so well-conceived that we are now working on those draft laws that are on the agenda to choose for the first time which is the most harmless in terms of public speaking, and then we spend our time well on four members of the law, and that's the end of the debate on amendments. Of course, on behalf of those citizens who are interested in the National Bank, we failed to ask Yorvanka Tabakovic of those 554,426.00 dinars, that's more than half a million wages, how much she gives for humanitarian purposes and who, because she promised it when she said her salary was really big, but she said she couldn't cut it, which, of course, is not true, because there is a statute that can change. Then she also said she worked so hard that she didn't have time to spend that salary, that's when I almost cried when I read it, and she told reporters she suspected they'd want to get a job at the National Bank, I guess that's where the low wages are. Then, of course, we didn't even get to ask her about leg holders, new cars, or five million dinars for dishwashers, but we'll do that when she's on the agenda, if Vukic suggested again, since he proposed to her personal friend Tomislav Nikolic in time, if she stayed with him in those relations, he'll hardly propose it now. So we'll talk in some future period. What you're doing with these amendments is a disgrace to the National Assembly, just as much as Mehina's theft at Frankfurt Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38633	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Replication to the mention of the party president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38634	Two notes, very well-intentioned, one who intends to object to the process of submitting amendments, should, at the very least, not participate in the process. And you feel free to take this as an open answer to everyone who participates in this process, and then give themselves the right to comment on something, even the use, from time to time, something like the words of the brunt. For everything else that's been heard, I think it's some kind of mistake, which can be corrected, I believe it's a printing nature, some people haven't properly read the title of the law. This law is about distance deals, not distance gossip, keep an eye out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38635	Comrade Radeta, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38636	Not a problem with this comment by Mr. Orlic, he has been found to read, and he can even speak and not read. But this hi, hi, hi laughing there from these dear colleagues who haven't even learned to read yet, really funny. As for the amendments, we Serbian radicals, as many of us as there are, we will not let you run us over with your number, nor your large number of amendments, we have not begun this game with the amendments. You started it, not because of us, but because of those who were sitting there, who were the first to impose, and it needs the public to know, and those pointless amendments, what's called, from the DJ, and then a proposal to expand the agenda. They're tired of it, we'll never get tired of it, as long as this goes on, we'll be in it. But that doesn't mean we won't criticize. This is really a disenfranchisement, and you have to agree, dissuade the debate on amendments. You know, we, who used to be MPs, remember it was nice to discuss -- one proposal, one item on the agenda, and then the amendment is submitted to that proposal as much as anyone really thinks it should. Whether on a proposal of 40 members, there could have been 40 amendments maximum if someone wanted to delete everything, because they think there should be this law in legal traffic in Serbia, or there were five amendments, 15, 20 and then a normal debate was being discussed with the promoter, whether it is now the governor or some minister, and with colleagues from power, with colleagues of another part of the opposition. You have to admit, we're going to be in on this. You praise the government and praise everything that you think is good, using amendments. We waste it all using the amendments. Legally, it's not fair to the people that we brought the Parliament into this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38637	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38638	Once again, of course, everyone has a lot of rights and needs to use it, to talk about things that they think are important. If he does so in accordance with what the Rules of Procedure foresees, there is nothing disputed about it. What I find unusual is that someone uses that right and then says, "and using that right is debauchery." Using that right is a disgrace. So if it's on the level of self-criticism, I'm absolutely not getting into it. Just to keep an eye on each other. We, of course, don't think that anything is pointless in the fact that we have good results of good policy and that we have something to talk about when we talk about these results. The impression of other groups remains their business while in these impressions they deal with themselves and possibly each other. As far as the SNS parliamentary group is concerned, there is no reason and it has proved to be neither useful nor good for others to mention us. I think this was an extremely well-intentioned and extremely correct note on my part, not at all in the wake of that comment concerning our colleagues. Nobody needs that here, I guess that's what we've established so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38639	My colleague Radeta, I will allow you to speak, but I ask you, after that, to return to the debate on the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38640	I'll be very brief. I understand that my colleague Orlic is defending his colleagues, but you know, you can blame me for anything in my political views, etc. But if you could say that I didn't read something right, so you could do a cartoon that makes those who really can't read well laugh, I can't let it, or someone who knows the Rules of Procedure better than me, or at least I know him, that's at least as much as you think someone who knows him knows him. So you can't blame me as a MP for that kind of thing. You can have political commitment and I'm proud to represent this policy that I represent, but if you say you'll use that right, as you're using, you're proud because you have something to brag about, why do you think we don't have the right to blame you for something that we don't think is right? You know as much as you think it's all blooming, everything's best, for example. As part of the National Bank's business, it's not. No, ask citizens who have a problem with credit agreements, where the National Bank has sided with banks, business banks, and there that bank representative says we have judicial decisions, but we will not respect them and the National Bank is not responding. That's not good for us. You may have, if you do say so – bravo and you do not need respected court decisions. We think they should respect each other and draw attention to that. You can't say, perhaps you can, that it's good that the governor of the National Bank, now it's Jorgenka Tabakovic, whoever he is, can't have a higher salary together than the president of the state, plus the Prime Minister, plus one minister and plus one MP. He can't. It just can't, it's not a good system of values. Maybe he can do it to you, but let us say he can't do it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38641	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. Comrade Eagle, I'll let you speak. You want a replica? And you're asked to come back after that to discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38642	It is clear to me, as it is clear to you, Mr. Chairman, that this story has diversified God knows where compared to where it started. Action and reaction, what happens and reacts to it. The problem we have and I believe, we're solving it successfully now is just that, the constant need of some of us here to deal with others. Especially us and our colleagues, for no reason or cause. As far as these amendments are concerned, I'm not doing any more of that. Use it yourself, use it, honor you, only if you have anything bad to say on the subject of that use, do not involve us in your personal relationships against what you do yourself. As far as the National Bank is concerned, you didn't understand anything. The problem with these people you're talking about is the problem with courts and those people who were protesting the other day, where they went to look for a solution? In front of the court. What were they satisfied with when they received an answer that they considered correct? When that court came forward. So there's no need for any personal relationship to get involved so we're missing out on the subject. Probably by the system that we care about hitting the subject, because whoever hits the subject, misses everything else, and we won't miss everything else. This serves nothing and is not a contribution to a good and quality debate. As for the National Bank and specifically Mrs Tabakovic, if the only result, and not the only one, this level of course that we have since 2012 until today, this stability and this certainty for our society, would be such a good result that all these critics together would not have the good enough to put in front of it and say we can compete, we have something to comment on. I think this has been more than enough, if we're still on the straight line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38643	Thank you. Looks like my application didn't bear fruit. Once again, I ask that we do not cause any further replicas and return to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38644	As far as I'm concerned, two explanations. I didn't miss the subject, I wasn't talking about the Swiss loans and the promise of the courts and the strike that happened yesterday, I didn't mention it. I'm talking about regular procedures where the banks got a warrant from the courts that they can't in those fine letters that says some contract keeping, some commissions, that they can't charge for it anymore. The people have strong convictions, the bank's representative comes out and says we know about the verdict, but we won't respect it. Clear, loud and precise. My colleague Orlic, you insulted me first, which is what I have to tell you, because what we're discussing today is the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in a distance settlement, and you said that I think it's gossip. So what I'm saying here or any of us can't be gossip. The gossip is what we listen to in the towers what you talk about each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38645	Thank you. Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38646	With a desire to be the shortest today. I see what will definitely be a good way to set off all of our misunderstandings. When some deal with the work of the MP in the O.R. and through the law analysis, and less with the cults, then we'll get along much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38647	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38648	Article 4 and when I think about it, I listened carefully to almost all my colleagues from the ruling coalition and when they explained all the amendments, really without the intention except for the exceptions of someone to insult, because these are people who have some other professions and qualifications, many of them are doctors and educators, but I didn't notice that there are many among you who have business intelligence. Because that's how it is, the fact that you haven't realized at all that this business world law carries a certain kind of risk that we haven't dealt with here, and that's what it is. Cyber crime, which has also been developed in the modern world of communication, and not only applies to the business world, but also to all citizens of Serbia who did not understand in last year's vote of the electronic document law and all accompanying contents of the Ljajic appeal that they should be more involved in this kind of business and electronic services in the financial sector that the law provides, because Serbian citizens only purchase products via the internet in 35%, but by paying them at their home address. It's probably most of you. You can't tell me now that many of you are so innovative that they make business arrangements, let someone who paid the travel arrangement come forward in such a way, you'd rather go to the agency. It's rare that any of you, because first of all, there's a chance that you can't get a good job here, as banks cheat on you, what Mrs. Radeta was talking about, don't buy a plane ticket that way. Speaking of plane tickets, Mr. Milicevic went now, and I wanted to see if he had any problems and if he met with this petty thief, Meh Omerovic, who can run for Number 1 in that famous comic book "Alan Ford".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38649	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38650	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have received a number of Serbian citizens and they say they understand Mr. Andrey Danko, president of the National Assembly of the Slovak Republic better...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38651	My colleagues, Radeta, do not disturb your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38652	... but some MPs who spoke today in our Parliament. He says they have a common language, but the conditions in which they live and in which some MPs live say that they differ greatly. You're talking about this law and you want to represent it as if it's one factory that everyone who's unemployed will go to tomorrow morning, you want to represent it as if it's a coin of money, and basically it's not. It's not the way to pay. Of course, this is something that is modern and that monitors modern life flows, but it's not the biggest problem for Serbian citizens that they can't make distance contracts and pay, but it's a much bigger problem for unemployment, it's a much bigger problem for their commitment. Now you're wondering and saying, you say very often, that foreign investment has grown. That's right. What are foreign investors coming for? Well, they come because in Serbia the cheapest workforce comes because, in addition to being the cheapest workforce, for every job that foreign investors open, they receive about 10,000 euros. But did Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic do anything to make the business banks smaller greeners than they are, because on average, whether it's payment or payment, the transfer of funds from current business accounts in Serbia is about 0.50%. Any paper, any request that a business entity needs to get in a business bank, is subsequently paid. It's impossible to take it. It takes a lot more than that. Do you know how many apartments, how many houses must be sold because mortgages are placed on them?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38653	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38654	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has already been through the discussion in particular for the second day, indicating many shortcomings in the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely. It is a big problem that because of the nadad's Rules of Procedure we will not be able to conduct the debate and other draft laws that are on the agenda today. With this bill, the basic problem of the protection of financial services users is not resolved. In fact, there are foreign exchange and other differences that neither party can affect only the consumer, or the user. This can produce a negative incentive in terms of the gambling behaviour of service providers, which are far better than consumers informed about whether interest rates will change, or whether they will come and to what extent exogenous events will affect the subject of contracts that must comply with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38655	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mircic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38656	The essence of this debate is precisely that we as an opposition parliamentary group want to take advantage of these two minutes to warn of certain problems. But it is very surprising that, on the other hand, the government is using every moment that there is a legitimate criticism at the expense of the National Bank of Serbia, especially Jorgenka Tabakovic. It is interpreted in person and it is said, "Why are you personal?" And what is personal if the MP says – is it normal for the governor of the National Bank, no matter what his name is, to have over 5,000 euros in salary, to be in this situation, in this economic crisis where Serbia, the largest number of citizens is over-indebted or in charge of mortgage? What's more normal than talking about how the banking system, which is completely or over 90% out of control of the National Bank of Serbia, how do you get in line? How to warn Serbian citizens that there are a number of real dangers here when it comes to paying at a distance and when it comes to transactions carried out through banks, when it comes to signing a contract. Well, how much experience do we need, how many bitter experiences does it take for Serbia to tell me once, wait, people, to consider these pro-European laws in detail, to see if it suits Serbia? How many times did we listen to the explanation that those fine letters in the contracts that we signed with commercial banks, that we had to read it carefully, and those fine letters, in a series of lines, are exactly the stumbling block of many in Serbia. As long as it is an excuse, you are personal. We're not personal, we don't mind. We do, though. We do when it comes to stealing a mandate, we do. If someone stole a mandate, he's a thief, and a thief steals everything that comes into his hands. Why would someone get hit in person to say, "Here, now the radicals have a personal against him. Why don't we attack those who haven't taken the mandates of the SRS? What you're explaining, we here have to warn that there is a real danger of crime development and we use two minutes, or as far as it's available, to warn, to say that there are people in parliament who are the lowest-intensity criminals. There's their party that doesn't say anything about it at all. So what do the citizens of Serbia expect? What do they expect? That tomorrow that party or that coalition will stand in the protection of citizens against greater crime? Well, who are you talking to?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38657	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38658	Yes, Mr. Mircic, you're personal. Now you've said it yourself. What did we do wrong in the evaluation? Not only are you openly confessing now, and it's clear to everyone why.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38659	No personal address, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38660	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, you must say that I have just noticed that Mr. Mircic himself has admitted that they are directly personal in what they are doing today. We're convinced by people here that they're perfectly reading everything, I believe them. Then now Mr. Mircic said he has a problem with small letters, so that's the problem for this country and this society. Let's make it the least of it. He says, Mr. Mircic - 5,000 euros. It doesn't matter on what basis, where and how he solves this society's problems. Is that a serious argument for anything? In the end, we come to what? The story of mandates for which it is clear to everyone that some take it quite personally and cannot get over it. Why? Because this episode is, and it's really very rare for anyone in this country at all and has a desire to deal with it, but this episode refers to the time when some people realized that they weren't as politically important as they thought they were and they had a hard time putting up with it. If the horrors weren't personal here, here, I'd like to get an answer, I'm personally interested in this when I ask about personal matters. What is it and what is the mandate that Aleksandar Martinovic stole from those people who made that book about him and then carried it here and shared it in the National Assembly. You know very well what I mean and what graphic equipment I mean. A decent man can't afford it. It's to do, for example, my personal opinion, embarrassing. But I'm curious to know what kind of theft the mandate is behind, if it's not an absolute personal relationship, even the frustration of some people. What's the motive for some people to act like they're acting in this room, and we've established that they're on their own? Are those the same terms again? No, it's an excuse. The real reason is the deep personal dissatisfaction of those who allow themselves such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38661	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38662	Comrade Orlic, there is a true story from the history of politics on the political scene of the former Yugoslavia. When Vojislav Seselj, as the youngest dissident, was imprisoned in a woman's cassat, he wrote an open letter to Hamdi Pozderc, who was then a powerful man, he was in power, deciding on life and death. I'm paraphrasing only one piece of that letter. "With a set of historical circumstances, my dear Hamdo, one day you'll have to go to jail because a thief is a thief. “ Before that, he warned him: “One day, you may come to the top of this country with a complex of political circumstances, but don’t be surprised when the Japanese emperor, the English queen, and the American president will put crystal ashtrays, gold lighters and gold pens in front of you because they know, Hamdo, the thief is a thief. ” We are witnessing how the mighty Hamdi Pozderac has ended. And then they said – it's far from that, it's only Vojislav Seselj used phraseology to harm the great other Hamdia Pozderac. Here, now the Wolf is his descendant, nothing differs from his ancestors, but there is something that time confirms. We are now warning that it is not good for people who have taken the mandate from the SRS or any other party and sit in this parliament and perform their duties, not good, regardless of what the Constitutional Court has called it, to the insistence of Boris Tadic. It's not good. We don't have anything personal, we don't want anything bad in private. The political argument between us and Aleksandar Martinovic, between Serbian radicals or you, is a political reckoning. Don't take it personally. It seems to be your only defense to say – well, that's personal. The public knows. You cannot convince the public of Serbia who stole and who accepted the mandates and thus became a relevant political figure in this Serbia. Serbia forgives everything, forgives everything, perhaps theft, but treason does not forgive Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38663	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38664	Again, let me ask you, Mr Arsic, that you convey this striking avoidance to answer the question of the term of office of Aleksandr Martinovic tells me much more eloquently than anything that Mr Mircic has now said. Tell him that when you meet him. So, the story of those mandates, once again, just an excuse, could have been any other. The point is what I said. Some people can't live with it that they don't seem to be as important as they thought they were and they seem to have stayed in the minority at the time they felt big and powerful. I could do it now, but I'm not going to do it, because I don't really care about the rest of this country much about the story and the episode, but maybe someday I could ask myself if those who stayed in the minority, if they hadn't usurped those mandates, to whom they were supposed to belong, but I'm not going to do it right now. I'll go back to that story, I love the stories of instruction, at a time when Vojsilav Seselj calculated himself to Hamdi Pozderc, and that's why he suffered, he asked questions and intellectual honesty. Is that right? Some academic careers have been under question because of the lack of intellectual honesty. I would like political practice in Serbia to show that the level of intellectual honesty has been achieved, for example, by not having people proven to have falsified their diplomas, that they faked having degrees from world universities, such as the University of Lomonos, for being rewarded by those who, behold, every day every other sentence - is this or that. That would be good proof, for example, that some people say things are serious and that they really stand behind these things. While such things happen, I can only say what these people say to qualify as I qualify – the sad remains of something that may once have been called energy, and now they are only traces of personal animosity and desire to retaliate with people they cannot forgive because they have shown them that they are better than them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-1.u38665	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll finish our work today and resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 74 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Stefana Miladinović, Miroslav Petronijevic, Zarko Obradović, Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Vojislav Vuć, Marija Jevdić, Đorđe Kosanić and Jelena Vujic Obradović. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services when contracts are made at a distance. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in particular on the 1st item of the agenda, the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in the distance, has been called upon to attend the meetings of the Governor of the National Bank, Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic, with his associates. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Boytich, here you go.
