ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30700	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30701	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in line with the events we saw yesterday in Kosovo, I first ask the President of the Assembly will the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia come to answer the questions of MPs, especially in light of what we saw yesterday in KIM territory? Furthermore, I ask President Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, did Alexander Vukic meet with Thaci in Paris on 13 March and if he did what was the topic of these talks and do these talks have anything to do with what happened yesterday in KIM territory? The next question I ask is did the President of the Republic offer US officials a proposal to change borders, or trade territories in southern Serbia? I ask the question of what is the plan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how will it protect the national interests of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those living in KIM if we are witnessing what happened yesterday at the arrest of Mark Đuric and beating up a number of Serbian citizens in KIM if we have seen that for more than two months, almost three months since the murder of Oliver Ivanovic we have no results? So, what is the result of the government policy of the Republic of Serbia? On 19 April 2013, this power was signed by the Brussels Agreement. The Brussels Agreement produced many harmful facts and agreements for the national interests of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Brussels Agreement also implicated an agreement on the abolition of Serbian authorities in northern Kosovo, an agreement establishing permanent border crossings, an Energy Agreement, a Telecommunications Agreement, where you permanently gave Kosovo a phone number. He also implicated an agreement on official visits. He implicated the Justice Agreement. You made our Serbian judges swear an oath before Hashim Thaci. Of course, the agreement also implicated participation and the fact that you forced Serbs to participate in the 2013 elections in the so-called "Serbs". The state of Kosovo, as you know how to say. You also forced them to take part today in power with Ramush Haradinaj and today we have a situation that the authorities in Kosovo arrested their citizen Mark Djuric yesterday, and in that government sits Serbs, sitting representatives of the Serb list that you forced to enter the government and support criminal Ramush Haradinaj. So, according to the president of the state last night, the bandit-terrorist non-existent state of Kosovo is the state in which his representatives sit down, and then complains and says here they are harassing us, we have given everything, and they will not accept to form a community of Serb municipalities. It's a defeat of foreign policy. It's a defeat in the dialogue you've been leading for five years in Brussels. That's why both the Government and the President of the Republic resign. I call on you to resign for the direct destruction of the national interests and endangering the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those living in KIM territory, because after what happened yesterday, I don't know what further can be expected in that territory. So this is a complete defeat, a complete debacle, and this is something that in serious countries is held accountable. I urge you to submit a report to the Assembly, to report to the Parliament on the dialogue, to inform Members here about plans that the state wants to do further in Kosovo here, not to agree on any secret dinners in Paris, New York and other world destinations with the partners of Vucic's government, Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30702	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30703	Thank you. I have a few questions that I'm asking Minister of Environmental Protection Goran Trivan in a cycle, I'd say, dealing with dangerous waste, traveling waste, etc. The first question concerns a period of about two years ago, unfortunately, the information I only recently reached and I ask the minister to answer me what happened to nearly 1,600 or to be 1,500 tonnes of hazardous waste from the Petrochemian factory in Elemir or about which the companies "Delta" Kladova, "Eko 21" and "Eko Maber" from Panchev were supposed to have been treated in an adequate way, but ended in Vienna. It will be very easy to determine by the minister, and if the minister cannot do so himself and his competent inspection authorities, he will ask for the help of the police or the BIA, which these companies will ask for, and I would also like it to be delivered to me, because I believe it is information of importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so on. a tachograph sheet representing a map, i.e. the point of movement of all hazardous waste carriers which either transport dangerous waste or take it to storage, to treatment, etc. Also, speaking of the tachograph list, I am asking the competent authorities, so from Minister Trivan, BIA, if this is the case, of the competent Republic environmental inspectors to deliver to us the tachograph of the Junisk company and Modekola in the last two years when it comes to co-operation with Petrochemy and the dangerous or any waste that these two companies have taken from Panchevic Petrochemia and carried on, were they merely transporting to some other point, were treating it etc. So, I'm looking for a tachograph of "June" and "Modekola", of course, with the intervention of the competent authorities. Also, I ask Minister Trivan to answer my question what "La Farz" burns from the waste that these companies, Unirix and Modecolo bring from Pancheva Petrochemia, but also from other companies, industry or anyone who is the generator of hazardous waste? Finally, in the last part, I would refer to the event that marked yesterday afternoon and afternoon, which is the arrest of Mark Djuric in Kosovo Mitrovica and his return to Belgrade. What interests me is the question for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic – when did the government decide that Marko Djuric, as her official, went to Kosovo Mitrovica? What did she do when there was an incident yesterday, given that Marko Djuric, to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, an official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the government office for KIM and has nothing to do with the cabinet of the President of the Republic? I am also interested in having the Prime Minister answer what she did yesterday after the arrest of her official, what have the government members decided, have they met at all, discussed this topic and what further actions will the chief's actions under Mark Djuric's law be after yesterday? So, I want a concrete answer from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, on everything that happened yesterday and on the steps that should follow this incident, and I want to hear the Prime Minister about it, and not only the Prime Minister of the State, I say, in particular, stressing once more that Marko Djuric is an official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, head of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, which is an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has its own budget under the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not the Office of the President of Serbia with which, in the executive sense, has absolutely nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30704	The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions, of course, regarding yesterday's event in northern Kosovo Mitrovica. The first question is in some way basic, Parliament, in this House to you as chairman and Mrs Maja Gojkovic and your colleagues, in some way all of us here in this House when will the final question of Kosovo and Metohija be on the agenda of this Parliament? Indeed, what else do we have to wait for, what humiliations as state and people should we experience to realize that it is necessary in this House to have this debate as bitter as it is and as difficult as it may be to hear the hard words here? We really had a chance, and it seems to me in Serbia's history that a representative of a country as a caught beast walks through, spends in a cage through Pristina. It was not in Slob's time, nor in Kostunica, nor in Djindjic, nor in Tadic, nor at any time, but I think it is time to start this debate here in parliament and get a lot more questions about the relationship, which are being asked, about yesterday's agreement, from our security services. Whose idea was it to hold a planned meeting where it was held? Practically, 50 meters from the so-called. "Bosnjeh mahale", which was announced throughout the day by Pristina that Marko Djuric would be arrested. Why did members of the KPS, the Serbs we had integrated there, which this government there integrated, why were they watching on the side, as soon as they did not applaud their alleged colleagues from Pristina, not their alleged counterparts, but their colleagues? Why? Why didn't the people in the civilian security guard build a physical wall around Mr. Mark Djuric? We recognized, we had a chance to see there and Mr. Radojićic and all those people who beat up Serbs who didn't want to protect Mr. Mark Djuric yesterday. As much as you gentlemen from the ruling party object to stories like this, this is true, unfortunately. Let me tell you something, my destiny and my children are at stake, not your gentlemen you are far from Kosovo and Metohija, let me say what I mean here today. I would, of course, like to ask President Vukic a question to make it clear what the message means – no one can beat you. We were listening to these messages in 1987, let us now, we're happy with his message, but to specifically say what it means at this point? What does that mean, so at this point in time when Serbs are really threatened in the most brutal way? I, and I will admit it for the first time, have agreed with Alexander Vukic compared to his qualifications when he was so-called. "Independent Kosovo" is at stake. He made it loud and clear last night that it was a terrorist substance that was so-called. "State" that is a terrorist gang that is dressed as police uniforms, I absolutely agree. But right now I'm asking our president a question - Is the real government together with the terrorist state? What's the big deal? The Serbian list should be in that government or it shouldn't be. I hear they have a decision to make today. If it is a terrorist state, and it is, if it is a quasi state, and it is, if we will never admit it, and we should never admit it, then there should not be this artificial dilemma whether Serbs should participate or not, and not only in the government, but also in their parliament, in all their structures. We had a promise from the president that all those who participated yesterday in that brutal act would answer to the institutions of this state. In front of what institutions if we have integrated Serbian judges into the institutions of this terrorist establishment? Who's gonna do that down there? Which prosecutors, which judges? What cops? That's why it takes debate in this House, to make it perfectly clear what's in front of us and what we can do at this point, not distract the public, not just say big words for one night and keep doing things the way we were. Unless our policy is seriously reset, if we see our future, that is, our government sees our future in the institutions of so-called institutions. terrorist formations "independent Kosovo", then everything is a lie. Then the lie is what Mr. Alexander Vukitch tells us, then it's a lie and a promise to protect us from the criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30706	The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30707	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I request a notice from the Ministry of Culture and Information, in practice, regarding the public service of the Republic of Serbia. Are there technical and formal legal opportunities to change RTS correspondence status in Nis, i.e. to return to the level of the regional TV centre that he had until 1999? A programme that was broadcast live on the third channel at the time, from 18 to 22 each day, was seen from Jagodina to Skopje, which would now allow residents of Southeast Serbia, who are paying the subscription, thus making up for the service of the Public Service. Reminders for the sake of this, the RTS regional TV service in Nis had 120 employees at the time, and now there are 18 of them, of which only four journalists, covering, are huge areas of southeastern Serbia, as well as municipalities in it. Citizens of Nis, Leskovci, Pirota, Prokuplja, Vranja, Zaječar, Bora, Babusnica and many other municipalities in that part of Serbia feel that only one show called "This is Serbia", which features very short contributions to them. Circumstances have changed and this is the need of all citizens gravitating towards Nis, as a regional centre, and there are about two and a half million people. By restoring the status of the regional TV centre, conditions would also be created for the employment of young people from the Journalist Department, the Faculty of Philosophy in Nis, more efficient information and the opening of a new marketing space for RTS. Finally, after one start and a good investment of RTV, it is time to invest something similar in the southeastern part of Serbia, both technical capacities and software and other RTS content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30708	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30709	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in charge of regional development and the work of public enterprises, Mr Milan Krkobic, and also for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ana Brnabic. Dear Ministers, considering that as the director of the Post Office of Serbia, now as minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, more initiatives and projects have been launched and implemented in order to restore and revive the Serbian village. Now special attention is being paid to the project of reviving cooperatives in Serbia's villages, and your programme to establish 500 cooperatives in 500 Serbian villages over the next three years, through the involvement of younger, young producers in cooperatives with all the help of the local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia. On several occasions, representatives of cooperatives and cooperatives addressed Nis, demanding that the city as the holder of legal public property enable them to pay the rent without obligation, to use the business space at the disposal of the city to carry out the activities of cooperatives, because they do not have their own property or which they have insufficiently or inadequately to carry out their activities. They indicated that the Association of Serbia had lost a significant part of its assets during the previous period, which was sold as social property in the privatisation process through those companies in which the property was found. By way of derogation from Article 6 of this Regulation, the Regulation on conditions and the procurement and alienation of immovable property by direct contract, the lease of matters in public property and public tendering procedures, and Article 10 of this Regulation, have regulated cases where immovable property in public property can be excluded from Article 6 of this Regulation. Starting with the above-mentioned needs of cooperatives and cooperatives, I believe that improving the rules would achieve better protection of citizens' rights. That is why I sent the Government of the Republic of Serbia an initiative to supplement the Regulation on conditions of supply and estrangement of fixedness by direct contract, by adding a new Article 10a after Article 10a, which would be regulated that the immovable property in public property can be leased exclusively from Article 6 of this Regulation and outside of the public tendering process, i.e. the collection of written tenders in the event that the leases are sought by cooperatives to carry out the business of their work without the obligation to pay the rent. Regulation of the positive legal regulations of this kind of use of public-owned business space would be direct participation and assistance to units of local self-government, i.e. states in the even regional development of Serbia and incentives to establish new cooperatives and create conditions to facilitate the performance of existing cooperatives. Also, in Article 12. The Regulation, following Article 9, should be added to the new position of the 10th, which reads - to cooperatives and complex cooperatives can be leased a business space for the performance of the business in their work cycle without the obligation to pay the rent. We are the witnesses that a large part of the business space owned by local self-government stands untapped and collapsed. By amending the existing Regulation, that space would have been given its purpose. I ask the Minister and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia - was something done on my initiative and will the government adopt a new regulation and thus enable the use of business space for Serbian citizens to prevent the collapse of it? This would stimulate the survival of young people in the country, and thus essentially start to rebuild the resuscitation of the Serb village, unfortunately, which we are only talking about, but nothing is really happening, except that Minister Krkobevic is engaged in the full term. This would certainly stimulate young people to stay and eventually return and allow them to get a certain job through the cooperative system and to stimulate and provide income for their family through various subsidies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30710	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30711	Thank you, Chairman. My question is for Mr. Vladan Vukosavljevic's culture minister. My first question for him is – on what basis does the Tanjug news agency operate today, and how does it comment on the fact that according to the Treasury of State, i.e. Ministry and other government bodies, they paid 135 million dinars on various grounds in 2016 alone? My second question is for Deputy Prime Minister and Co-ordination Body for Gender Equality Zoran Mihajlovic. I'm asking this question in the light of the announced measures to encourage birth, which I suppose should encourage allegedly selfish women, as individual representatives at the top of the country call those who won't give birth. In fact, Minister Mihajlovic referred a question 20 days ago about the case of Bojana Ivanov Djordjevic, who is the most educated worker at the National Theatre "Steria" in Vrsac. Mrs. Bojana is, in fact, the mother of three children, and will appear to be declared a technological surplus. This young woman, who has been working for five years as a dramatist at the high-school theatre, has completed her postgraduate master's studies at the Faculty of Drama Arts in Belgrade, and is currently at postgraduate studies at the Academy of Arts in Novi Sad. However, the most educated woman in the theatre seems to be unable to keep Bojan from being fired. Namely, Marina Lazarevic, acting director of the theatre, informed the collective a few days ago that a new systemisation was made, under which only Bojana Ivanov Djordjevic will be declared a technological surplus, while at the same time receiving three new workers, one in technicals and two actors without appropriate diplomas, but with membership cards, the parties are known. Bojana, as you can guess, is not a member of any party. I would mention that Bojana has spoken several times to the current president of the Republic of Serbia about the same problem and has not responded to it once. Also, over the past 20 days, as long as it has been since my asked question in this same place, Bojana has addressed several other ministers. She wrote to Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, addressed Minister Djordjevic, Minister Ruzic, as well as Prime Minister Brnabic. No one but Djordjevic's press service, which she referred to Pancheva, gave her no answer. On the other hand, the best performances in the high-end theatre are played behind a closed curtain, far from the public eye. This is where true human drama is played at collective meetings. It is said that in this very theater, just over a month ago, some frightened people at the end of the meeting, where Bojani was declared to be a technological surplus, happy that at least for a short time they whitened out such a fate, ended this meeting with applause. So, once again, I refer to Minister Mihajlović's question – is this what it should look like when it gets dark, and the educated mother should go to the street? And on behalf of Bojana, but also of all other women who have believed in the humiliating story of the government's representatives about God's population measures, I demand an apology for the insult and transfer of responsibility for the fall of birth to women and mothers, although truly the culprits are among all those who have created destructive policies and solutions for the past 30 years, and many of them, unfortunately, do so today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30712	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30713	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow this session, God helps everyone. I'd have two questions. The first concerns the work of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and the occasion is a very dramatic situation in which there is a very sensitive social institution in the town of Cačka. It is a "Air", a public institution for children, young people and adults with developmental disturbances, which, believe it or not, respected colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, has been missing for several months now from the director, or the director's office, or the board of directors, nor is anyone currently in charge of such an important and sensitive social institution. At this point, we don't know the fate of this facility. A contest for the selection of directors failed. It has entered various party games about who is next to the director of this company and has again shown that the ugliest face of our party parasite system, which is, for example, the post of director, is followed by the SPS. The Socialist Party of Serbia has divided into more factions in Cačka. Every faction has its own candidate as director. Because of all this, the entire competition, the selection of directors, and, behold, one such important social institution can practically not function normally at this time. Her work, her employees, her users, and you can understand how dramatic it is if you consider it to be people with developmental disorders, with special needs, with disabilities. And that tells you what it's like to endanger the work of our state institutions when a party-parasitic system like a cancer eats up our society and state. I would ask the competent minister to urgently send an inspection into "Air" in Cačka and to urgently examine this case and to return the urgent work of this institution to the legal part of the operation. The second issue concerns the president of the Republic, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and of course, the topic is the most important national and state issue today, which is Kosovo and Metohija. I really ask all of you distinguished colleagues to appeal to the representatives of the government, regardless of whether we are the government or the opposition, regardless of all our ideological and political differences that we know well, the most important national and state issue today is certainly Kosovo and Metohija. Is it possible, I ask and appeal to all of you, is it possible that for two years of this new assembly we do not have any session of the Serbian Parliament on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija? Is it normal that we don't have a called Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and we have an incident like this yesterday in Kosovo and Metohija? Is it normal that since 15 September 2017, the proposal for a resolution on Kosovo and the Metohija of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was handed over by the Serbian Movement Group of the Dveri, cannot come to the agenda, and you are talking about internal dialogue and care for Kosovo and Metohija? If you care so much about KIM, explain to me the logic of why there is no topic of KIM here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Why doesn't Marko Djuric come here to say what he's got, but he's going to Kosovo Mitrovica for a totally unclear adventure venture that happened there yesterday? So, really the most honest here I approach all of you and ask – what is the decision of state leadership after yesterday's arrest of a high-ranking official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I didn't hear the State Department decide anything. After what happened yesterday in Kosovo, the Brussels Agreement must be broken, negotiations must be suspended in Brussels and returned to the UN Security Council, where we have allies in Russia and China. That would be a real state move that doesn't have one. You continue the negotiations, and it is obvious that you are going towards the signing of a legally binding agreement and recognition of the false state of Kosovo. I don't see how you can convince me that it's not a plan and that it's not even behind yesterday's farce. Don't be angry when someone is doubting everything that happened yesterday in Kosovo Mitrovica, because there are too many suspicious elements that say that the agreement between Alexander Vukic and Hashim Thaci from Paris and Brussels is behind it to prepare the public in Serbia for the signing of a legally binding agreement. Finally, international circumstances work for us. There has never been a more favourable international situation for KIM and the defence of KIM within Serbia. Why give up KIM today when we haven't given it up under much more difficult historical circumstances? So I ask you one more time - when will KiM be a topic for the current National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30714	I would only ask fellow MPs who will be asking questions in the future, Marko Djuric is not an official of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but a official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They probably call him the clerk of those who want to show how unworthy he is and how insignificant that incident was. That's how I interpret it, if you call a man a clerk. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30715	Thank you. A request, an explanation and a question. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's request and her associates who made a Decision on a nine-and-a-half million-euro subsidy to the Continental to subsidise 200 programming positions. I demand that I be provided with an explanation of economic sustainability and the basis for giving someone from Germany nine and a half million euros on the IT market in Serbia where there are no unemployed programmers. So, I'm not qualified, I'm not disqualifying, I'm asking, and that's the obligation of the Prime Minister and her associates to give me an economic basis and justification before signing the contract. I request an explanation from Finance Minister and Governor of the National Bank of Jorganka Tabakovic to explain to me the benefits of the Decision on a special list of persons who are allowed to open foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts and prohibiting natural persons from doing so. So, let us explain how we gain to form a whole decision on a special number of persons who have ties either to diplomatic missions or to securities of value or to purchase contracts abroad, and we forbid that individuals do so with propaganda at the same time, correct, if there is even proper propaganda, which I doubt, about E – business. So, tell me, what good is it that all natural persons can't open foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts? I ask the question to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and BIA Director Bratislava Gasic. Question – what is the status of the investigation into the murder of six young men at the Panda cafe on 14 December 1998? On December 14th, two masked armed men and rapal killed six boys: Ivan Obradovic, Zoran Stanojevic, Svetislav Ristic, Dragan Trifovic and Vukosav Gvosdenovic, high school students and student Ivan Radevic. There's no record of the culprits for this crime. He's got propaganda about the crime. Depending on who makes propaganda, she has a different interpretation. According to one propaganda, she served to retaliate the Serb forces in Kosovo's territory, other propaganda served the KLA terrorist army to make their case public, according to others, it is a cold-blooded joint propaganda. The status of the investigation has had different forms over the last 20 years. We didn't have any data in 1998 and 1999, except for the interpretation of propaganda. Those six boys would be between 35 and 40 today. If we owe someone, giving up propaganda and finding the culprits for this creepy murder, then we owe it to them and their parents. The second form of investigation was when the president of Serbia said by 2016 that he had knowledge, but there was no evidence, and that the knowledge would not be liked by anyone in Serbia. I understand and completely that you cannot claim without proof what the findings are, but I am a folk MP, the Constitution obliges both me and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Minister of Interior and the Director of the BIA to provide me with information on what status this investigation is in today. If we continue to cover up the case or show the inability to solve this horrible murder since 14 December 1998, it will remain insensitive to any kind of propaganda, lies and slanders produced about any horror we experience as humans, whether we live in Belgrade, Pristina or anywhere in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. The fact that this is one of the terrible crimes with missing persons we haven't had for the third year is the obligation of all of us to get this information, to clean up this crime of propaganda, peel off and give people the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30716	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is for the government of the Republic of Serbia, for security services to check and answer me. Is it true that during 2007 and 2008, according to the "Vikiliks" and the knowledge from these dispatches, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, the famous member of the left of Serbia from the tycoon, representatives of the embassy, foreign states of the United States promised not to respond to the declaration of NATO independence, which someone calls the state of Kosovo, the false state of Kosovo, the NATO state? There will be a state while the NATO Pact is there. Once the NATO Pact is gone, there will be no more states. Is it true that they promised not to react in 2008 if Albanians declared independence, but provided Boris Tadic was elected president of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. representatives of the US Embassy and those who ruled the United States convinced Albanians not to declare independence until after the election of Boris Tadic? I ask to be answered whether these WikiLeaks are correct and whether our services and our government have the same or similar information. Since this happened, Boris Tadic, before he fled to Romania, took an oath on February 15th 2008, and Albanians under an agreement, which Jeremic and Tadic had with the United States, through their embassy, declared independence on February 17th. Therefore, the dates themselves show that they are depriving the WikiLeaks which have been published and that they have a foothold in practice. That's the first question. The second question – is it true, and it refers to the prosecution, that the prosecution answers me, possibly Zagorka Dolovac, whether it is true that Biserka Zivkovic was admitted to the Office of War Crimes in 2011 without the necessary conditions and necessary preparation. So she didn't have a judicial exam, which was a condition, and she didn't have eight years of working experience in the judiciary, which was also a condition. Is it true that the judicial exam was only obtained in 2012, through Mrs Malovic, but was accepted after 2011 and did not have eight years of working experience in the judiciary, but came from companies that were involved in the production of grapes and wine. That's another question I'm asking. The third question – what will the Government and the Assembly do about the political process against me in the First Basic Court, for the words spoken for the National Assembly's pay phone, according to the private criminal case Sasa Radulovic, whom I call "Sasa Kradulovic's companies" here as a phenomenon. So, the private criminal suit is for words spoken for the pay phone, and Article 103. The Constitution says: The Messenger cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for an opinion delivered at the meeting of the National Assembly. Since I am the only European parliamentarian against whom such a process is being conducted, I ask the Government, I ask the Ministry of Justice – what will they do about the case, because I am not being tried, dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is being tried for freedom of speech. And one more thing - what will be done about the lawsuit being filed on the Latin, and on my request to be arranged and delivered on Cyrillic, the First Court judge said that he thinks that I have no right to Cyrillic and that what it says in the Constitution, he thinks quite differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30718	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every government since 5 October to this day is absolutely committed to Serbia's European integration, and this issue is an unbreakablely linked issue of Kosovo and Metohija, which should be resolved at Serbian damage. We have been negotiating for 20 years in various formats, and there is no concrete progress in these negotiations. In Kosovo and Metohija, since Kosovo and Metohija is an international security protectorate, should be in charge of KFOR, and we saw, firstly, on March 17th, that KFOR has done nothing while burning Serbian houses, monasteries, and Serbs expelled from Kosovo. Yesterday we also saw that KFOR let Albanian terrorists savage in northern Kosovo. I am interested in what is concrete progress in this Brussels dialogue, what is what we have received in this, as we can see the contradictory views of some of the leaders of the European Union, NATO Pact and Serbian officials. For example, on 19 January 2017, Serbian Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic claimed that armed forces cannot go north to Kosovo and Metohija and that respect for the high-level agreement from Brussels is understood, regardless of whether the negotiations were oral, i.e. that no agreement has been reached and that the armed and security forces cannot come to Kosovo's north, and respect for the high-level agreements is understood, regardless of whether they are oral. It is absolutely irrelevant whether it is verbal, written, with or without a stamp, on a napkin or paper – said the head of Serbian diplomacy about whether the Rosu special police force may appear in northern Cosmeta and whether there is an oral or written agreement. And according to NATO officials, the Brussels Agreement of 2013 -- Kosovo authorities do not have to ask KFOR for approval to send police forces across Kosovo and Metohija. So, what have we achieved and what have we agreed if we have in mind what happened yesterday in Mitrovica? I have a question for the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic and Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic: when will the National Assembly schedule a meeting to discuss the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the Organisation of collective security agreements, headed by the Russian Federation? Since 2013, the Republic of Serbia has observer status and it is important for our security that we have full membership in the ODKB, because it has proved that we cannot trust neither the negotiations in Brussels nor the officials of the European Union, nor the commanders of KFOR, nor the commanders of the NATO Pact. The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija are at risk and we could see it yesterday. Whatever I think of Mark Djuric, he represented the government of the Republic of Serbia yesterday, and it is a humiliation and a shame to treat any official or official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in that it is an insult to the Republic of Serbia. We need to worry about our safety, we need to strengthen our position, so that what happened to us in 2004, March 17th, and what happened yesterday in Mitrovica, can no longer happen to us. We should understand more of the EU as such has admitted so-called. As soon as Kosovo conducts membership talks with them, as soon as it signs a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and how can an objective mediator be someone who recognises an independent Kosovo? We should return the negotiations under the auspices of the UN Security Council because we have strong protection of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China in the Security Council and there to discuss Kosovo under the auspices of Resolution 1244. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30720	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30721	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I address, on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, the Ministry of Justice, the competent judicial institutions in Serbia, in fact, as a parliamentary club of competent judicial institutions in Serbia, to establish, in accordance with the legal powers, the criminal responsibility of all those who have committed violence against innocent and naked citizens in the KIM area, i.e. citizens living in the KIM area and consider Serbia their own country, to establish a criminal responsibility for all those who have been involved in the kidnapping of the Director of the Government's Office for KIM, Mark Djuric. With guns and long pipes on the naked Serbian people -- great courage, but you will agree with me, not yesterday's demonstrated force. Yesterday, violence was demonstrated in this way and today was a demonstration of impotence. We believe that the President of the Republic of Serbia has come out with a clear view, with a clear message that Serbia has shown that it is reacting to a serious state that wants to preserve peace, a serious state that wants to preserve stability and prevent destabilisation. First of all, wisdom is needed, a cold head when making decisions because this is not a daily political issue. This is a question concerning Serbia's future. Dignified and I would say a peaceful response by Serbia does not mean that Serbia is scared and does not mean that Serbia is weak, but rather, means that Serbia instead of conflict, instead of responding to violence, is talking about having a future. Such a reaction shows a willingness for Serbia to answer difficult questions. Such a reaction shows Serbia's readiness to defend national and state interests in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia will be able to preserve its people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia has entered the Brussels process to resolve some key issues, to come up with a sustainable compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides, not to be humiliated and not to be underestimated. There is no tempting offer and privilege for which Serbia will give up Kosovo and Metohija and accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It is hypocritical for any of us to expect such a thing from the international community. Of course, the EU must not be left behind. The United States of America must not be left behind, for terror, for the abuse suffered yesterday by the director of the government's KIM office, Marko Djuric. Terror, who suffered citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, see Serbia as their country. I listened to all the colleagues who were asking questions today and spoke on this subject. I will refer to the finding of only one colleague, and Mr Risticevic has also asked some questions that go in that direction and I think the answer to these questions best speaks of them. The only thing they came up with at this difficult moment was resignations. It only speaks of them, not of the serious and responsible position of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of the president of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30722	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30723	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to ask two questions. The first issue of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Ani Brnabic, and the second issue of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice in connection with an affair that occurred after the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar and the investigation of the damage suffered by the 642.33.856 dinars and 52 pairs, all of which occurred during the administration of Mr. Dragan Dilas. To return first to the prime minister's first question -- when can we expect the first positive shifts after the historic decision of the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Serbian Progressive Party, Mr. Alexander Vukic, to declare war on the white plague and to improve the birth rate, to go to the rescue of the family, to go to the rescue of the nation, to go to Serbia? All those who took advantage of their right and freedom, and in a democratic state like Serbia have the right to do, and have made criticism based on one such historic decision by President Vukic, I must say that such a decision put themselves on the other side and showed that they are against the family and against improving the birth rate and against Serbia's rescue. Do they do it out of personal impotence, anger that they didn't think of it before or work out of personal animosity towards Alexander Vukic, or maybe they're working on a task, I don't know, that's what they're going to answer, but I can see that last night some of them had a job or wanted to see Serbia on their knees, see Serbia thrown on the floor? But with the wise policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the leadership of the Serbian state, Alexander Vukic and all coalition partners in the government, a major conflict was prevented last night. I must say that all those who wanted to last night and who saw and thought that Mr. Djuric was humiliated must tell them they were wrong. Although he was bent, even though he was led as a robber, those terrorists from the UCK or the KLA, whatever they were called these terrorist organisations in Kosovo, he was never more upright and he was never taller and while these organ dealers pushed his head down to the ground, I must tell you this, that I have never seen his head higher and I have never seen more proud. He was last night a symbol of the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and so we must all experience it as a nation. All those perverted mentalities and characters, who last night looked at their mouths and eyes open to their mentors of the Shipar-West mentors, and who prayed for part of the bloody cake if there was any chaos in Kosovo and Metohija, must understand and hear the words of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, that Serbia is responsible for the state and will make cold-headed decisions. I've cooled my head, and for those of you who believe in everything else I'm ordering out of here today, like in a jargon, just chill out a little bit. I would now return to the second question I wanted to ask the Ministry of the Interior, and regarding the disappearance of 642.333.856 dinars and 52 pairs, as the investigation found, and that the investigation also found that the contractor in the affair following the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar that the company had taken the unlawful advantage of the illegal profit of 130,000,000, I am asking the question – where did the 512,000,000 dinars end during and responsibility of Mr Dragan Gilas. In 2009, public procurement and a billion and 100 million were scheduled for the reconstruction of Bulevara. Everyone knew from the bidder that a billion and 100 were separated except for one company that apparently knew that much more money was separated, because a loan of 600 million arrived, or six million euros. And of course, you can imagine, this firm has made an offer of a billion and 700, almost 60% higher bid than others, and of course it's got that job. The contract was signed on December 31st, hours before the New Year's welcome and, of course, other companies were not notified by the Public Procurement Act that it was decided at all who got the job, but were informed nine days later that the eight-day period of appeal had expired. When Dragan Gilas was asked why he violated the Public Procurement Act, he replied that the Public Procurement Act was not even applied, but that someone, as I recall, had been applied, suspended the law of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe that's some kind of Lex speciality Mr. Zivkovic has every time he's here to honor us whenever he's doing his part on the agenda. That's the question we have to answer. I don't have any more time, I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30724	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Ivan Bauer and Dr Milorad Mijatovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the drafts of the law from points one to five of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Branko Ružić, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Djamić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Anamarija Vicek, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Aleksandra Damjanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Doc. Dr Bojan Tubić, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Natalija Pavlovic Šinović, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Vesna Nedeljković, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Jasmina Jovanovic, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Jovanka Atanakovic, Deputy Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Borko Draskovic, Director of the Republic of Geodetic Institute, Saša Đurović, Head of the Department for Development and Application of Information Technologies in the Republic of Geodetic Institute, Đorđe Djoković, Special Advisor of the Minister of State Administration and Local Government, Aleksandar Marković, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Information and Technology of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia of Croatia for the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with the order of Members of Parliament, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on textbooks, Proposal for a Law on Educational Inspection, Proposal for a Law on Electronic Administration and Proposal for a Law on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30725	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, we have three laws that make up a single set aimed at contributing to the development of better-quality textbooks in this part of the school year and resolving some of the issues that the previous law could not, and then reaching a law on the national framework of qualifications that has been going on for a long time, I have been informed that one decade already has been ticked, and on the other hand, this is very important to us because it is a set of laws that, with the system laws on education that we have adopted in this home, makes a unique continent and enables the use of EU funds related to further education reform. There are minority groups involved, it is the inclusion of Roma, as well as a number of other important issues, and these are significant funds known to the public that are being touched by this law. I'll just say a few more sentences, so I don't hold you back, as part of a public debate. After almost a decade, we will be under reviewing a law that requires us to resolve the institutional arrangement of a qualification system that is acquired not only through formal education, but also through informal education. The law allows easier labour mobility and application of the concept of life-long or life-long or, however anyone calls it, learning for the rest of their lives, as they would say. For the first time, institutional frameworks for the participation of the education world economy in the creation of qualifications are defined. The Republic of Serbia is receiving a national qualification framework fully in line with the European Qualifications Framework or the EQF, fulfilling one of the country's important obligations on the road to the EU and providing sectoral budget support of 27.4m euros. There's a series of more issues, you'll see through the debate, but these are essentially the most important. What is related to the Law on textbooks, according to the draft of this Law, is a textbook that is a fundamentally didactical teaching tool which, in any form or medium, can be used in educational and emotional work at a school for the acquisition of knowledge, skills and formation of attitudes, to encourage critical opinions, to improve functional knowledge and to develop intellectual and emotional characteristics of pupils and students whose contents are determined by the plan and programme of teaching and learning approved under this law. This definition of textbooks enables the process of digitisation of teaching content and the adoption of a small strategy to use digital textbooks either as a whole or as parts alongside existing ones. Standards for digital textbooks are under way, and changes have been made to the textbook's plan. This solution would mean cheaper, fairer, more accessible education for all students and, of course, more interesting and functional and lead to improved student competences. Also, solutions and precise deadlines for submitting and approving textbooks are assumed, which speeds up certain processes and makes them more efficient and able to obtain textbooks through school, i.e. through a student cooperative, which would eliminate a single gray market, various intermediaries that have a significant impact on the price of textbooks. This would significantly shape the price of textbooks to allow a cheaper story. An existing percentage is abolished which will lead to market accumulation, so that many small publishers can pass. So far, the census has been at 5%, so many of us have been in a bad position. This way, competition will be both better and higher. The cycle of the course of the textbooks was foreseen by the previous law for three years due to the reduction of deadlines and because of changes in the curricula and the reform in the cycles of the first and fifth and first secondary and high schools was extended to four years and it makes it the kind of efficiency of the family and is significant for the home budget. The establishment of an organisational unit of the Department of textbooks, etc. It's a low-level textbook center. This solves a big problem that has always been raised as a serious question, and these are textbooks for special groups, for national minorities, for high schools where they are small circulations, we talk about secondary vocational schools, with a small number of students, so that we solve the question of tailored textbooks for children who have specific needs, whether it is the Braje alphabet, whether they are all other reasons, and there is an original solution put in place to make each of the publishers mandatory from their income, 2% of the net profits must be invested in the Centre. He doesn't have to work at all costs anymore, so he's going to do it for the Bureau, but we're sure the textbooks will be there in public, that they'll be finished and they're big, dragonish punishments designed for someone who won't fulfill it. So that's how we got an important resource that we haven't had so far. Lists of textbook appraisers are removed in the present way, clearly determining who may be the promoter or in order to avoid conflict of interest and the process itself as transparent as possible. There's a series of more details about what we're going to discuss. The last law on our part, from our ministry in the light of educational laws, is also about educational inspection. Although there are general inspection laws, which Ruzic also knows in agreement with his ministry, we felt it was necessary to pass even a small special law until at a later stage this law drowned in system education laws. A lot of space is being solved by an educational inspection. Simply, there are very different areas that are torn apart by various laws, about preschool, about basic, about secondary, about dual, about high, about institutions that should also be monitored, about different visions, about student, student standard, textbooks and all other things, is a very diverse beauty of what must be done. So far, the adoption of this law should have arranged both an accurate and clear job and a description of the inspection and the work of the educational inspectors themselves, to make the network of inspectors available at the bar, because you know that this job is already part of it and transferred to local self-government, somewhere in the function of the city, and, of course, entrusted work to the province authorities, so there is a lot of need to influence it. I'm going to tell you that we've come to the conclusion that, somewhere along the way, we're going to retire the entire community or even the environment falls on one educational inspector, and not even one, and then if it was going to be six, then we're just in trouble. So this network and everything that's very important for the hire of inspectors has also been made almost impossible so far. Then if we want to redesign that body, we're almost getting into a situation so we can't hire anyone. So these are all very important issues for our system to function further and for us to continue working on this set of laws as of September 1st planned reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30726	I thank Minister Sarčević. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30727	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure today to present to you two very important draft laws, therefore, the Law on Electronic Administration and the Law on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data. The Law on Electronic Administration virtually channeled a transformation of state administration into the service of citizens initiated by the adoption and application of the General Administrative Procedure Act as the basis of public administration in the Republic of Serbia. The objective of the legal text that is before you today is to provide as much public services as possible and to use the internet, using information-communication technologies, via the national portal e-Government and other portals, to facilitate the communication of citizens with administration. Complicated administrative procedures can be further simplified and accelerated by using information technologies. With complete, clear and online easily available services, the development of electronic services will ensure a high level of sophistication of services and thus achieve an efficient electronic administration. By reducing the length of procedures and paperwork, both time and human resources are saved and the possibility of allocating and more efficient use of these resources is created. Connecting different systems leads to better system administration control and error reduction in resolution requirements. Increase the satisfaction of citizens with services provided by public administrations and improve the co-operation of all bodies, institutions and institutions. Currently, most institutions, depending on their will and mutual agreement, define the rules of the game themselves and assess which documentation should be submitted, leading to inequality in their conduct. References ignore the possibility of using new technologies to interpret that existing regulations do not recognise electronic data exchanges. Therefore, it was necessary to define the rules that would apply in the electronic environment in order to give officials a precisely regulated way of handling the proceedings. In this way, better administration will certainly take better care of the citizens. Digitalisation, as one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, modernises the way the administration works and raises quality at the country level with the best realised electronic administration services, which certainly confirms last week's award for the best project in 2017 in this area. The United Nations, OECD, the Council of Europe and other international organisations have been dealing with various aspects of electronic administrations, its concepts, advantages, barriers and challenges for a long time. The bill that is before you today is just responding to the principles foreseen by the European Union, such as consumer orientation, efficiency and efficiency, simplification of procedures and proportionality, security and privacy, transparency and accessibility, openness and reuse of data. All of the above can be shown on a case like the birth of a child. Of course, a wonderful event for parents who require the inclusion of multiple procedures, the registration of children in the birth certificate and the book of citizens, the application of residence, the application to the central register of compulsory social security in order to achieve health care and the right to certain benefits, for example a parental allowance. These procedures meet the conditions for the exercise of a number of other rights, since the birth of a child takes place in a health institution and it is necessary to connect all maternity care facilities into the central system and simplify, integrate all procedures into one. Therefore, it is necessary for the State to establish a systematic entry into the basic registers. The way it will be done will allow other state authorities and local self-government to use these procedures for other services as well. There is no reason for systems to be connected individually from case to case, from service to service. Once established service is needed to be available to the entire administration, both at the central and local level. It was this way that during 2016 that the child's birth registration process was resolved through the national e-Government portal, by implementing the project "Bebo, welcome to the world" which brought about another possibility for parents these days, which is the exercise of the right to a parental supplement. The exchange of data from different bases, for example one life event, shows how easy it is to establish cooperation between several institutions. The total number of applications so far sent by electronic means from the hospital, 91,876,000, which speaks of the great interest of parents who send a clear message that they require the state to take over the burden of the administration, allow this case to parents that this is a very important moment for their family, the time is directed to a new one. The existence of a single counter such as the national eGovernment portal has already raised Serbia on a scale of good administration that uses technology to establish a more comfortable and user-oriented administration, i.e. an administration that understands and monitors the needs of citizens and businesses. However, using an electronic administration in Serbia did not live to a sufficient extent precisely because of unclear game rules. As a result, it was necessary to regulate the issue of infrastructure is necessary for the smooth operation of the administration, the way in which the authorities connect themselves to keep records in electronic form, how documents are submitted and the delivery is carried out, and all other issues that have so far been settled in a case-by-case manner. It is necessary to constantly work on changing the awareness of the education of employees in the administration in the use of electronic systems and provisions that insist on administration in which the citizen is no longer a courier, but a client whose satisfaction is most important. The registration of a child in a preschool institution is intended for parents who no longer have to visit kindergartens and hand over papers already have the possibility to submit requests by electronic means and at the end of the enrolment, be informed whether the child is listed or not. This situation is a good example, when several authorities decide on one right, or provide one service, to enroll a child in a preschool institution. The determination of the facts shall be carried out when the application is made by verifying the system from different records all that is relevant for the enrolment. This means that the parent no longer has to bring a copy of the birth certificate for himself and all the children, as well as the belief of the residence and other necessary certificates. However, this service has only been implemented in several cities in Serbia, precisely for reasons of consistency and procedures from the municipality to the municipality and lack of infrastructure resources such as sufficient computer numbers, Internet access and certification of management employees. The way these resources will be used is defined in the Law on Electronic Administration. The e-Government aims to free citizens of concern about procedures and how to exercise their rights. The exchange of data and verification of the facts necessary in the procedures is essential for the establishment of a public administration that respects the basic principles and provisions of the new Law in the general administrative procedure, which declares further development of electronic communication between administration and citizens. Aware of the importance of establishing a rapid and secure exchange of data in the facts in which official records are kept and the need to break the practice of burdening citizens to re-brand documents proving the fact that the state is already keeping records, June 2017, we established an eZUP information system on the eGovernment portal. Using existing capacities and the architecture of the e-government portal, seven authorities are linked, so the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Interior, the National Employment Service, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Security, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Fund of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic Geodetic Institute, which holds key data relating to the personal status of citizens and on which over seven million credentials have been issued before the introduction of these systems, certificates, copies of the bodies using these data, and to directly decide on citizens' rights. At this point, about 200 authorities, including local self-government units, social work centres, educational institutions, have made over 140,000 requests, which basically means they did not address each other's letters in order to determine the facts, but by one click they came to the data. The extent of the use of the eZUP information system is expanded by any involvement of the organs. Optimisation of procedures implies minimal changes in individual rules. It is necessary to adapt the electronic records, i.e. the database for the exchange of data and the connection via the national portal e-Government and other portals such as the national geospace data portal that we are also talking about today. Many examples of the implementation of information technologies are in order to provide quality services to citizens and business representatives, so in January 2016 an electronic system for issuing building permits was introduced in Serbia. In the area of licensing, Serbia has entered the first ten countries of the world, and this is also the best result and the greatest progress we have made this year. From 2015 to today, Serbia has skipped 176 countries and moved from the beginning to the very top of the list. Since the introduced system is completely different from the system that existed until then, it was necessary to provide support to both processors and applicants. In the period from January 2016 to December 2017, with the support of NAED, more than 4,500 users of the electronic licensing system and construction system are trained. The organisation of the mentioned training and mentoring visits laid the basis for a sustainable and successful reform of the system of issuing building permits. The result of the introduction of such a system is that by 1 January 2018, 131,593 requests were submitted, of which 124,603 were resolved. Sombor, Shabac, Kruševac, Čačak, Kraljevo, Svilajnac, Vienna, Sopot, Temerin and Negotin are the most efficient local self-governments that have over 90% of positively solved applications and almost 100% solved cases. The integrated health information system of the Republic of Serbia is a central electronic system in which all medical, medical, health data of patients, health care professionals and associates, health institutions, health interventions, electronic instructions and electronic prescriptions, data on appointments for specialist examinations and diagnostic procedures and surgical interventions are stored and processed. This system allows easier and better planning in the field of health care and better health policies by introducing an integrated health information system. The application of the system increases patient service quality, increases information transparency, increases patient reporting and the general public, provides a transparent and objective attitude towards patients and improves access to healthcare institutions, reduces waiting time for a review. Currently, the pilot is in the phase of the introduction of an electronic diary that has already been released into several hundred schools across Serbia, and this project is the basis for the development of an education information system that should allow students to be monitored from enrolment in preschool until their schooling is completed. A unique information system is currently being developed for all e-inspector inspections aimed at achieving a higher level of efficiency and efficiency of inspection supervision in the Republic of Serbia. The e-Inspector system supports functionality at the following levels. At the level of a business subject, surveillance entities, the application of a self-checking system to raise knowledge and awareness of the need to apply the rules at the level of inspectors, the effective application of inspection experience, the organisation of work and the application of risk management in order to achieve optimal levels of efficiency and quality of inspection supervision. At the inspection level optimal management of inspection resources by applying planning based on risk management and monitoring of real-time inspection control. At the level of the inspection system, effective coordination of inspections by applying synergy effects of the inspection system through the profiling and empowerment of inspectors for the multi-calling and planning of joint inspection controls, and the provision of continuous training to develop the capacity of inspectors. At the country level, the application of feedback in terms of improving regulations and reducing administrative barriers to the operation of inspections with the use of the inspection control database. At the level of citizens, increasing transparency of the application of inspection supervision. As regards the Law on National Infrastructure and Geospace Data, it is an integrated system of geospace data that allows users to identify and access spatial information obtained from different sources from local to global to national in a comprehensive way. National infrastructure is a framework within which a broad use of geoinformation policy develops, reduces administrative costs and prevents duplication of jobs on their security. The main objectives to be met by the adoption of this law are the creation of national infrastructures to provide geoinformation for the public sector, the economy and the public in general. Ensuring the exchange of quality, standardised sets, spatial data and services based on cooperation within the geosectors. An efficient and profitable exchange of information between the public and private sectors, using common spatial data through services guaranteeing availability, quality and awareness. Also, by creating a framework to support the development of a national information society and international co-operation based on modern initiatives and participation in current European projects. The objective of establishing national geospace data infrastructure is to create a common national framework for the exchange of spatial information between public institutions and greater opportunities for public access to spatial information, thus ensuring availability, quality and efficient use and exchange of spatial data at national and international level. Successfully established national geospace data infrastructure is an important support for the development of eGovernment and represents a framework within which the development of a wide use of geoinformation policy, reducing administrative costs, preventing the multiplication of businesses. The national geospace data infrastructure also completes the international network of services, with co-operation at European level in the field of geoinformation particularly important. In the EU's environmental accession process under Chapter 27, the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to implementing the "Inspire" Directive and the Law on the National Structure of Geospace Data, the directive is fully transposed into national legislation. The law therefore creates a legal basis for the adoption of sub-legislative acts, which together with the law form a legal framework for the full implementation of the "Inspire" Directive into national legislation that must be implemented within the prescribed time limit as a condition for Serbia's EU accession. Law-making is necessary because the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows for the period until 2018 provides for the adoption of this law in the first half of the previous year. The adoption of this law will also contribute to the improvement of the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's balance sheet in business terms, so on the Duing Business List, as provided for by the programme to improve the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's ranking list, and in terms of business for the period from 2017 to 2018. In fact, the application of this law is one in a number of measures that will, by the end of 2018, be significantly reduced by the duration of the process of recording assets from 21 to five days, with a reduction in costs from 2.8% to 2.5% of the value of the assets and wrinkles of the necessary procedures from six to three. Investors will easily and faster come up with information on the location, shape and surface of the plot, as well as building opportunities on the same. The geospace data infrastructure is established by respecting the following principles. Data should be collected once and maintained at the level where this can be done most efficiently. It should be possible to combine continuous spatial data from different sources, divide from between users and applications, allow the information collected at one level to be shared at different levels. The spatial data required for efficient management should not be available only if their mass use is limited. Easily finding available spatial data, assessing whether they are suitable for the use and achievement of the objectives and conditions for their acquisition and use. Geographical data should be easy to understand and interpret, as they will be documented properly, and can be presented in a specific context that will be adapted to match users. The application of this law will certainly directly affect state institutions, organisations as entities responsible for the collection, production, maintenance, use and delivery of standardised data and service both directly to the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia as users. Legal solutions will strengthen and improve the link between the private and public sectors through mutual co-operation and exchange of geospace data. Also, legislative solutions will improve the management of natural and land resources, which will contribute to strategies that have an impact on society in general. The application of this law will ensure effective use and security of geospace data, which contributes significantly not only to the state, but also to citizens and businesses. The application of this law will provide financial savings by eliminating the duplication of data and business in the state administration, ensuring that geospace data is up-to-date. Also, all data at national level will be standardised, harmonised, which will speed up their use. Standardized web services are the most modern and efficient way of exchanging and using geospace data. The analysis of the geo-sector situation has shown that some of it's most important weaknesses in this area are data failure, data failure, heterogeneity of the IT system, multiplication of efforts and costs, insufficient use of standards and poor accessibility. The application of this law will eliminate these shortcomings. What is certainly also significant is that the law will allow development and economic activities in several ways, as a modern way of distribution of standardised, up-to-date and quality spatial data will allow them to be used in different environments, which will contribute to the development of the information technology market. The application of this law will increase the application of spatial data and the development of product with added value. Also, the application of this law will make it easier and faster for investors to come to information on the position, shape and surface of the plot, as well as on building opportunities on the same, as well as on accompanying information of importance for decision-making. Finally, I would really point out that despite perhaps the language, which sometimes is, I would not say bureaucratized, but certainly to a large extent and technically and sometimes challenges and resistance to reading, I still believe that these two laws are of great importance, because they introduce order into the system and the functioning of all the competent state authorities, and I believe that we will certainly and in the debate will hear very constructive proposals that you will have the opportunity to make, and I hope that in the day of voting, we will have the honor to have the National Assembly vote and the Law on Electronic Administration and the Law on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30728	Thank you, Minister Rose. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zukorlic as a representative of the board of directors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, I would like to report that the Committee had full agreement on the conclusion and support of the proposed legislative solutions, and in fact pointed out the importance that these laws were adopted as soon as possible in order to finally complete the legislative legislation and could address essential issues related to education. So all three laws are very important. A particular issue of the national framework through which the possibilities and solutions of some of the operational problems that have been accumulated will be opened, particularly related to the recognition of foreign diplomas, because we have major accumulated problems here and in fact needed this law in order to operate on the mechanisms to address these issues as quickly as possible. Also, when it comes to textbooks, here we have a very significant step as we have already heard, especially for these low-level textbooks and actually this law has received support. When it comes to the Inspective Control Act, it's also very important, because there's actually no quality in education without professional inspection supervision that's missing. We are also known to have problems at the level of the ministry and at all other levels in the capacity of inspection services, but also in the arrangement of the functioning of these services. In this law, there may be something else that can be done to specify the competences of the inspectors themselves and their areas in making direct solutions, given that there is a large concentration of importance, or power in the case of individual institutions, such as the jurisdiction to decide on the temporary closure of the school institution. So that's a very sensitive question. Perhaps it could be improved through amendments in some way, because for such decisions it is very important that there is a safeguard mechanism, so let's say the inspector proposes, and that the minister decides that there would be no possibility of abuse, but certainly that we can still fix all these solutions in the walk, and should certainly understand that as long as the laws do not vote, it means that all MPs are invited to make proposals, solutions through amendments, because the goal is to have as many better legal solutions as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30730	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30731	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, the Party of Democratic Action, I must stress that for the Members of the SVM, in my address I will talk about a set of educational laws. For us, the proposals for the law on textbooks, on the national qualification framework and on the educational inspection are important first because of Serbia's involvement in the European educational space and compliance with the Europe 2020 strategy, or 2020. We understand these proposals as part of a broader strategy of smart, sustainable, inclusive development, and we are convinced that we are actually all aware that there is one challenge ahead of us to create an environment in which really education will be available to everyone, and not just education, but that the principle of availability of a source of education, such as. textbooks and teaching aids, etc. in terms of achieving full equality, protection and progress of the person or group of persons spoken of by the respected minister, who was in an unequal position, to be truly achieved. In terms of the availability of education, SVM MPs believe that progress in terms of achieving full equality, in fact, has been made by this proposal for a law on textbooks, proposals relating to low circulation textbooks, I am specifically talking about the provisions relating to deadlines, and we have heard this about the introduction of digital textbooks that are part of a broader reform of the educational process, as well as solutions that change the way in which the manuscripts and the approval of textbooks are submitted, by prescribing simpler procedures and shorter deadlines. We consider these three draft laws educational, aimed at strengthening the institutional framework, building society, knowledge and circulation of knowledge. When we put these three draft laws within the framework of the European Education Area, as I mentioned in the Europe 2020 strategy, we feel that we are no longer simply talking about procedures and technical elements, but also about key policies and perspectives of development, what is significant about the processes of Europeanisation of the whole society. In terms of removing obstacles to flow and the circulation of knowledge and skills is of particular importance to us, the process of recognising foreign higher education documents is of paramount importance. I would like to quote the first sentence of the Convention on the recognition of qualifications in the area of higher education in the region of Europe. The convention was signed in Lisbon in 1997, and the Republic of Serbia ratified in 2004. So her first sentence is that the right to education is a basic or elemental human right. By ratification of this Lisbon Convention, the principles of this Convention are, of course, incorporated into our legislation and applied in practice to certain principles. Unfortunately, not all principles of the Lisbon Convention apply. The overall recognition system is not entirely precise in relation to the process of recognition and equivalence, and therefore it is extremely important to finally adopt legislation on the national qualification framework or NOX, as we call it. The establishment of a national qualification framework defines the space where qualifications are established. In particular, the levels and types of qualifications, competent bodies and processes related to the establishment of a qualification system are described, with respect to specificity, of course the national education system, the principles of European educational practice and, as we have heard, especially the European Qualifications Framework. It is extremely important that this bill establishes a single and integrated national qualification framework, which includes all levels and types of qualifications, regardless of the way we have heard it, whether it is formal or informal education, informational learning, life experience, work experience and which is significantly independent of the age in which this qualification is concerned. Dear Minister Sarcevic did not discuss issues such as the agency in his opening statement, so I will talk about the agency, ENIK/NARIK and some of the issues that are important to us. So, according to this proposal, the Government will educate the qualification agency within nine months to carry out professional and development activities and to ensure the quality of the qualification system and to provide professional support to the NOX council, whose, of course, responsibility is to recognise foreign school documents and the process of recognising high school documents for employment and, in fact, on the day of the start of work of this agency, will be to take over from the Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development, the employees of the ENIK/NARIK Centre. We believe this solution will contribute to increasing efficiency and quality of work. I would remind all of us that the ENIK/NARIK Centre has actually started working on 1 October 2015 and that it is part of a network of information centres of member states of the European cultural convention or UNESCO European region, while on the other hand the NARIK network of national academic recognition information centres is based on an initiative by the European Commission to improve academic recognition of qualifications in EU member states, but also on the European Economic Community of Turkey, with the aim of achieving academic mobility, providing information on national policies and recognition practices related to foreign qualifications, but also national education systems. Mobility and information on foreign study, as well as implementations, are essential to the Lisbon Conventions mentioned earlier. ENIK/NARIK network is part of, as we have heard, programs such as "lifelong-lning" or lifelong learning, and mobility is the essence of both students and staff among high-school institutions in these countries. I would also like to mention a minority action plan, or this report, the last sixth report, which actually refers to the last or fourth quarter of last 2017, the realisation of activities planned by a special minority action plan, is exactly one of the activities, recognition of foreign higher education documents, through the establishment of an ENI/NARIK evaluation centre for foreign study programmes. Based on this report, we know that by July 18, 2016, a solution was issued for 417 items, of which, of course, a significant number, almost a whole number from countries of national minorities, with the latter, meaning the fourth quarter mentioned last 2017, only 97 solutions were issued in that quarter, which is an extremely large number, and these relate to the diplomas of the countries of the Hungarian, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia, Croatia and Albania. However, we do not believe that it is possible to talk about linking education with the labour market and the concept of lifelong learning, without changing concepts, both preparation and approval of the choice of issue, withdrawal and follow-up of textbooks and manuals and additional teaching tools for primary and secondary schools. These are areas that really directly influence the development of student potential and improve the entire education system. Ensuring the availability of textbooks and teaching tools is important, and unfortunately the practice has shown that the procedures are such that the publishing of textbooks, the procedures are very long-term, inefficient and that more consistent solutions must be found, the body's competence, ensure respect for the deadlines set. Once again, let me quote the sixth or final report on the implementation of a special action plan for minorities. In particular, the activities of providing all textbooks and teaching tools provided for in the textbook's plan are stated that in the catalogue of textbooks for 2016/17 and 2017/18, i.e. the 2018/19 school year, a total of 1521 textbooks are available in languages of national minorities for pre-school, primary school and secondary education. It seems to me, very briefly, that we heard in the introduction of the Honorable Minister, that the establishment of a centre for low-level textbooks is planned. I'd like to point out these solutions to the textbook bill. So this center would be a special organisational unit of the public publisher. We hope, too, that the establishment of a centre would solve the problem of preparing and publishing low-level textbooks, as a work of general interest. You mentioned, of course, the low-cost textbook is more than a textbook, only in the language and letter of the national minority. These are also textbooks adapted to students with special needs, developmental disturbances, disability, viewing textbooks, special programme education textbooks, as well as textbooks for subjects who attend less than 2% of students and students from the total number of students and students in the generation who attend the same program. It is good that the law proposes that the Government, in order to facilitate equal availability, since this is the essence of covering everything, training and education, in line with the available resources of the Republic of Serbia's budget, makes a decision on financing or co-financing of preparation or acquisitions and the allocation of textbooks, manuals, teaching tools and assistance for students who are socially or materially at risk, as well as for students with disabilities and disabilities. It also states that the Government determines the level and type of education, class and subject-matter for which textbooks and manuals will be financed or co-financed, as well as the conditions and criteria on which the student or the student will exercise the right to finance or co-financing. We believe that there should be an obligation to finance the purchase of such low-level textbooks, as I have mentioned many times, in order to ensure full equality, protection and progress of a person or a group of persons who are practically in an unequal position, given the really provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which basic education is mandatory and free of charge, and secondary education is also free of charge. To describe the problem. In addition, as I have already mentioned, under the low-titration textbooks are considered textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, and it is prescribed that textbooks have an obligation to participate in the provision of low-cost textbooks in the amount of 2% of net revenues achieved from sold textbooks in the previous calendar year and that those funds should be made into a dedicated public issuer's account and that, if these funds are not sufficient and are mainly not sufficient for funding, the Government shall, in accordance with the resources available to the Republic of Serbia, make a decision on the co-financing, preparation and acquisition of low-tired textbooks. If possible, this should be further considered. Of course, the situation is much better now than it was in the past, but the question is asked – what if these funds are not enough, which are provided by textbook publishers, and the government is not able, in line with the budget, to provide additional funding in the budget? With this in mind, MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians feel it is necessary to prescribe a mechanism that will provide all the necessary textbooks, including low-cost ones. With regard to the preparation of these textbooks, or the establishment of a textbook's plan and the approval of textbooks, we would like to commend and therefore we did not have to submit amendments to these drafts of the law, because the draft law on textbooks is in full compliance with the provisions of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, as well as with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and the Pedagogical Minorities and the Pedagogical Institute, or the Law on Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, and everything is fine with regard to confidential matters of the Pedagogical Institute of Vojvodina. This, in fact, refers primarily to the competence in the approval of textbooks, manuals, additional teaching means, practical means, and practical game resources. What is also important to us, it is that this bill retains the solutions set out in the previous Law on textbooks on what is actually considered a textbook in the language and letter of the national minority, as well as provisions relating to the use of language and letters when publishing textbooks. The third law in the field of education or the education that lies ahead is the proposal for a law on educational inspection. Educational inspection in the exercise of inspection supervision, you spoke very briefly about it, examines or checks the application of laws and other regulations in the field of entire education, means, preschool, primary, secondary, dual, higher education, textbooks, student and student standards and here are important and competent. So, inspection tasks are carried out by an educational inspector in the competent ministry, and if we are talking about the authorities of the province, the regional administration responsible for education and education activities, as well as the municipal or public bodies responsible for education and education, the supervision of the work of the educational inspection, the carrying out of entrusted tasks shall be carried out by the educational inspection of the Ministry and by the authority of the regional administration responsible for the tasks of education and training. You mentioned that very briefly, Mr. Minister, but it is indeed a fact that these educational inspectors do not have enough. So, at all levels, there's a certain number of educational inspectors missing. Based on the statistics, based on the data available, we have come up with information that for the republican, rural and municipal and urban level about 250 jobs for inspectors are actually foreseen, and that only 167 of them are filled. The total number of intended educational inspectors for all levels of education entrusted to the work of the province, municipal and urban level is 219, currently 132 municipal and only 13 rural inspectors. To look at this issue, the sixth report on the last one, means, last, fourth quarter of last year, the minority action plan, the activity of strengthening the capacity of professional and inspection services, this report states that measures and activities are being taken to strengthen the capacity of expert inspection services. For example, it is about training employees in the municipalities of Becej and Choka, that these employees are used in Hungarian, means by the language of the Hungarian national minority and the training of employees in the town of Subotica, who conduct the inspection control procedure in languages that are in official use in Subotica, pre-school institutions, primary and secondary schools. Members of the SVM consider it extremely important to comply with the said omnibus law, i.e. The Law on the Jurisdictions of the AP Vojvodina, the Proposal for a Law on Educational Inspection, provides for the entrustment of the offices of the Municipal and City Administration in the field of pre-school education and education, primary and secondary education and education, the work of employers to learn through work, the work of institutions for the education of adults and publicly recognised organizers of the work of the Centre for Professional Training and of an unregistered entity. An AP Vojvodina's trust in higher education, student and student standards is foreseen, for example, to resolve complaints against first-degree solutions is entrusted to an autonomous province for a local self-government unit in the territory of the autonomous province. Let me mention briefly, as regards the inspectors, since we do not see it in this bill proposal, but we hope that we understand well the application of other laws, how the educational inspector performs the tasks of inspectional supervision in the body of the state administration, the body of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government as entrusted tasks, we believe that, in the employment of an educational inspector, this is normally legal, we apply the provisions of the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, as well as the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, regulates the knowledge of the language and letters of national minorities as a special condition for the performance of work in certain local self-government, in order to achieve full equality of members of national minorities and full availability of the right of communication in the language of national minorities, which is in official use of a specific unit of local self-government. We hope that the consistent application of this law, as well as the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will ensure that the number of educational inspectors with the knowledge of the language and letters of the corresponding national minority is lacking. To sum up, gentlemen of ministers with associates, SVM MPs will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30732	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30733	I thank the People's Parliament. It's about only one small addition to what you said, and for the general public and what the publishers know. So, publishers pay 2% of net income if they don't issue a low-cost textbook themselves, which means that if they decide to issue, they don't have to pay. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30734	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30735	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government, in my presentation, I will focus on the draft legislation on the National Qualifications Framework, and in the follow-up of the debate on the principle of my fellow Members, will talk more about the other legislative proposals we are discussing in parliament at this session. The very name of the legislative proposal The National Qualifications Framework may not mean much to the citizens, and therefore, through my presentation, I will try to explain what citizens actually have since the establishment of the National Qualifications Framework and how important it is to them, but in fact how and how important it is to the state. The establishment of a National Qualifications Framework is an important mechanism for economic development, for increasing employment and for the development of human capital. In order to achieve a sustainable future as a society and state, we must plan in the long term and work hard and hard to achieve these plans and visions. The creation of new jobs and the improvement of living conditions and standards of citizens' lives must be our priority and they are. As economic reality moves much faster than political reality, increased interdependence requires a dedicated and determined response at a political level. I believe that it is possible for Serbia to be even stronger economically, to achieve even greater employment, productivity and social balance. In that sense, I understand and support and welcome what finally, after almost 12 years, this proposal for a law establishing the National Qualifications Framework has come into play. In Serbia, in fact, let me explain it a little bit, I think it's important, because of the lack of the National Qualifications Framework, there has been a huge gap between what schools offer, actually the education system, and what labour market needs are. The absence of the National Qualifications Framework has been a serious problem so far, and if we are talking about brain drains, but also when it comes to the process of Eurointegration, because it is impossible to join the international division of work and ensure the transfer of knowledge. The National Qualifications Framework will make a final difference between what we know, what we can do, what we really do and what we are recognised by the competent institutions and what we are recognized by all of it. I want to believe that if applied in a good and proper way, the National Qualifications Framework will help qualify for people who are also recognised and translated into regular flows. The National Qualifications Framework is of paramount importance and as one of the key factors on which potential investors will decide where and whether to invest their money. The law regulates the procedure for recognising education that is not formal, so it regulates the area that explains what happens when someone overqualified, what about those who learn through work and it will certainly help employers, but also those who are employed. From the qualification register, to repeat once again, you will see clearly who knows what and what he can do. To address the problem of high unemployment in Serbia, co-operation of all sectors is necessary; therefore, the education and labour markets sector as well. There is high unemployment, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the labour market does not have a sufficient number of high-quality labour, so additional training is needed. The establishment of the National Qualifications Framework is crucial in overcoming this problem and therefore both sectors need to operate and their close co-operation. So also the education and labour markets sector. It is also essential that the National Qualifications Framework is connected and that, as we see from the proposal, there are common principles with the European Qualifications Framework. In order for domestic qualifications to be easier recognised and recognised in European countries, it is necessary to carry out its comparison with the European Qualifications Framework, because this is a common reference framework linking national qualification systems, to facilitate the understanding and interpretation of qualifications between different countries and education systems in Europe. The European Qualifications Framework is actually a meta-frame that allows for the establishment of links between national and sectoral qualifications frameworks for individuals, which certainly increases transparency and mutual trust in the recognition of qualifications, and thus labour market mobility. In order for the European Qualifications Framework to be used as an instrument for comparing qualifications acquired in Serbia, it is necessary to connect the National Qualifications Framework with the European Qualifications Framework, which this law also encourages. The EU 2020 strategy aims at smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth, i.e. the development of an economy based on knowledge and innovation, the promotion of an economy based on a more efficient and efficient use of resources and the promotion of an economy with a high employment rate. Some of the most important initiatives to achieve these goals are new skills for new jobs. This is an initiative that needs to modernise the labour market and strengthen people by developing their skills throughout their lives, therefore, lifelong learning, in order to increase active labour force and better align supply with labour market demand, among other things, through labour mobility. There is a key factor in establishing the National Qualifications Framework and I understand its objective as well. Serbia also needs to ensure effective investment in the education and training system at all levels in the coming period, to improve educational outcomes, i.e. to make it clear what anyone knows and what he can do. Serbia's commitment is to increase the openness and relevance of education systems and better adapt the outcome of learning to labour market needs, which is achieved just by creating a National Qualifications Framework. In practice, this means that we need to strengthen people through the acquisition of new skills and skills in order to adapt to new conditions, possible changes in professions, because it can reduce long-term unemployment and increase employment productivity. In this context, it is necessary to encourage a strategic framework for co-operation in education and training that will include all stakeholders. The result should be the application of the concept of lifelong learning, as I have already said. It is important to ensure that competences necessary to participate in further learning and in the labour market are acquired and recognised throughout the general, professional higher education and adult education. The creation of the National Framework encourages the implementation of the European Qualifications Framework. Finally, by establishing the National Framework, we get a new tool, but also new ambitions and challenges. All we have left is to move from word to deed in law, and in the day to vote, my colleague from the SDPS and I will support the draft laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30736	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30737	Thank you. The laws before us, therefore, the Law on textbooks, on the National Qualifications Framework, the Educational Inspection, as well as the Law on Electronic Administration and Geospace Data, are excellent for the illustration of a process of debate on laws both in substance and in importance. That's the first thing I want to share with ministers and associates. You have that approach when they say everything is right. It's an approach that the government is thought to be a saint. My message is: sing her tropars then. There is also one approach when they say – nothing is wrong. That's the approach when no one's even read what's wrong, but in advance, they know that every government is benefiting from a niche. Both approaches are equally bad and both approaches can produce very negative processes in society. Why do I think these laws are great to start giving up and the government is a saint, so let's sing love to her in the tropars, and power is the devil, they don't work at all? Because we have laws in front of us where we can measure what happened in the sector for which these laws were applied in previous versions and what happened in the sectors for which we propose these laws. It's the focus I normally have on all kinds of laws. These are especially important to me. I don't think it's anything, but anything in one country is more important than the rules of education and than the people involved in education. No army, no security, no myths, no territory, no history. There's nothing more important than education. Companies who understand that make themselves a successful society. First my question, do we understand that? Unfortunately, I don't think so yet, but we are somewhat. In two minutes, I will share with Minister Sarčević comments on what he informed us about the content of the law and the diversity of the angle of view that I have by reading the laws and which most people have when it comes to the Law on textbooks. What does the Law on textbooks come down to? How many children go to school in Serbia? In eight classes of elementary school and four classes of high school – 800,000. One approach is to watch the circulation, 800,000 children have the circulation of some books times five books, times ten books. That's one approach. The second approach is – what does it say in those books? If you have the Law on textbooks that will limit the framework for this market of circulation take it yourself and multiply, 800,000 children times “ Nature and Society”, times “Mathematics”, times “Naturals”, these are the most beautiful books, only from “Naturals”, there are no better ones. So when you share that and the price of a book then you see that there can be 40m euros, 50m euros. I don't know. Why do I say this – how do I know? Because I'm not interested in the circulation, but I have to be aware that the circulation of books for 800,000 children will be decisive for some provisions in the law, and that's the topic they've been hitting the books on so far. Bill, witnesses, participated, prayed, asked, cried, not people, but failed. The first good news is that this law has no resistance to circulation, something's happened. I'd like to hear from the minister at least an assessment of what's been measured, which so far has happened well in our application of so far's law on textbooks that we can now, in a completely different way, discuss the provisions of the Law on textbooks. Why do I say that my approach – what does the textbook say? Because it's essential. Because what it says in the textbooks shows what kind of generation we want, which is equipped for the future to send from us today in 2018, what we want children in Serbia to know in 2035, what we want to value in Serbia in 2040. I'm a baby boom generation, one of the first generations of women on the planet who was just supposed to be born and someone fought for my rights to go to school, to marry whoever I want, to give birth to children if I didn't want to, to get a job if I wanted to, to travel alone. I didn't do anything. I was just born in the '60s. People's MPs are getting it to be a mistake. Now I've got to do a dyspression. The first decisions to allow girls to go to school have been made by societies that are today the richest on the planet, and if we don't have that value, we'll be behind. If we're proud of being men who know where women are, we'll have a society that belongs at the bottom of the planet's scale. It's my observation that it's a mistake for someone to fight for my rights to be born as a baby boom generation. What taught me, it made me think of teaching me antifascism, teaching me that one party was great, teaching me that we loved another Tito and Dad and Mom and everything else taught me valuablely. But it taught me that natural sciences are the basis of development, taught me all sorts of social sciences. So someone's figured out somewhere that a whole spectrum of what they're learning should be taught by my generation. Then we started experimenting. Now I know, let me tell you, my textbooks, the writers of my textbooks, both in high school and elementary school, whether or not they wrote textbooks from "Mathematics", "Naturals", "Biology". It means it was worth it. I'll be back to square one. It can never be good so that the government is a saint and that nothing is wrong and that power is the devil. If there was something good about whoever came up with what kids were supposed to look like in the '60s, then what you had is a spectrum. There's been a lot of bad things. I don't want to talk about it. My accent on the Bookbooks Act is this – if the previous textbook laws have removed some obstacles with their tissues, my request is – let this Law on textbooks open up a space for what we want to write in those textbooks to know what children will look like in 2040, 2045, what they will do. Just another note about the Bookbook Act. Most interesting, one of the most interesting will be one of these famous 2% investment for low-cost textbooks and I mention it because such a decision is proof that you can look at the circulation – 800,000 children times the circulation of books, but you can watch and value and say that these children should get textbooks in another language, but there are few, there should be more, if there are few, then the circulation is small and then you have a valuable proposal that essentially changes society for the better. So I'm deeply convinced that we can do it with every provision on anything. National qualification framework. As for the Law on textbooks, as well as for the National Qualifications Framework, so I will later say about geospace data and for the E administration, I am terribly asking you, indescribably, to the maximum of begging do not explain that it is because it is both in the EU and that it is because we will get money from the funds. I don't care if he's in the EU, I don't care how much money we get from the funds. If there's anything I can do to help, since I've been going around Europe for two years and asking – what will the financial perspective of 2021 look like? If there's no money to expand, don't make a fool out of me. I have my domestic politicians who like to make a fool out of me too. I won't give it to them or to you. Why am I saying it's important to get out of the speech that we do it because it's the way it is in Europe? Because someone will give us 24 or 22.4m euros. Because that's what we say - we didn't come up with it ourselves. What aren't we? I know we didn't, but when you say it like that, then whoever listens to you says it doesn't want Europe to give money. That's not true. We need a national qualification framework. You need an orderly system to evaluate what someone is qualified to do. To create a depression that may not seem related to the national qualification framework. When we entered into normalisation between Belgrade and Pristina after 2010, an obvious problem arose that someone should recognise their diplomas. We can't admit diplomas, because they're all diplomas from our territory. They can't admit diplomas because they don't think we're one territory. What do you need doctors, judges, cops to do to you? So it was invented with the help of Switzerland, but also with domestic knowledge, a sort of agency through which diplomas will be recognised to solve people's problems. That's the story again about what you're looking at? You're looking at 800,000 students in Serbia, you're looking at the circulation of books or the problems they're having? I think that the national qualification framework was necessary, that we are late, that probably many of us are responsible for not putting pressure on the house, here to push the executive authority whoever it is to bring it in early, and it's going to be very important that we do both carefully to the agency and the people who are going to work there, because they have an incredibly important job that has nothing to do with the EU or with their money or with our money. It has to do with building credibility for what is a national qualification framework. We don't believe that we're qualified for anything or we use a mythic dictionary that's all great, there's no better than us, so he asks you how many Nobel laureates you have, so I have one or around him we're kidnapping, how many Hungarians are 12, so what do we do? So this agency and law enforcement will be important because of the slow and long-term construction of credibility for what needs to happen. We have amendments concerning both deadlines and these low-titration textbooks, these are not amendments that have been submitted conditionally whether or not we will vote, nor are amendments that have been submitted just to use the time available for details. We really think there can be improvements with my standard sentence that according to the resolution that this Assembly made in 2013, all draft laws should be entered with sublaws. You don't need Europe to come up with and understand how good it is. Well, I have an amendment that then I'm shortening the time for sublaws, and one day it's probably gonna happen to me to come up with an act or a sublegal act. The argumentation says - we can't make a sublegal act because we don't know what the law will look like, so make it so you said everything works in the law so it'll be a sublegal act. And yet no law has come out in this congregation, in the form that has entered, and so will sublegal acts. For the law on educational inspection, I have reserves that concern the idea of making a law on educational inspection, and why not a law on another inspection? I do not dispute the need, I do not dispute a small number of inspectors, at least slow solutions. I think we need a serious conversation about why we don't have enough inspectors for any area at all. Demagogy that we don't hire, it doesn't matter who we hire, how I tell you, when you do that, then you reduce the total credibility of all of us, not the government that has bad inspectors or corrupts or I don't know what else, it doesn't matter. So, I'm staying in reserve, but that's what I'm going to discuss in detail. Minister Ruzic shared with us all information on the Law on Electronic Administration and Geospace Data. What there is about this e-Government Act, it all exists. Less – more everything that we have now introduced into the law already exists in reality. Why do I say these laws are good illustrations? Because you can measure what happened when we first said -- e, there will be electronic administrations? General mockery and general laughter and general shame, if someone hadn't dared do something about it, see how great we are without that e-government. And the time period is quite short, you know, you can measure it to two, six and ten years total as much as it happens. So the e-Government Act is essentially going to tell us how we're going to use everything that already exists. It would be good if, as the Law on textbooks feels, it had to open up a discussion of what would be written in these textbooks, so it would be very good if the Law on Electronic Administration opened a debate why do we have resistance to electronic administration? Why do we have no awareness of when and how much it works and why it doesn't work? Why do I go, that part I love the most, so they ask me for my ID card, copied, I love it so much, there's no nicer part than that. On the first of June of last year, we got to this counter, everyone who has any data, I don't have to ask for data, but you do it, so let's share why, where were the obstacles, why didn't it happen? It's a common interest. Or you could say it's cool, so you're singing the tropics, you can say it's no good, so it doesn't matter how we live in need with our administration. Electronic administration is a great cause, the Law on Electronic Administration is a great reason to talk about it seriously. What's this electronic administration for, who's in charge of what, what does that mean to me? It doesn't matter if I gave birth, whether I should file a tax return, whether they should find me a citizenship list, it doesn't matter. Why am I saying that? Because e-Government does not exclude the communication of the administration of state administration with us citizens. Then, when ISIS falls, so you can't approach, someone has to talk to the citizens, say, "I'm sorry, it's electronic, but it happens." When they take Nis out of the air filter meter, then someone needs to tell the Nish citizens - we can't measure your air quality. That part doesn't cost anything, and it's the most expensive part for reforms. My key messages to these laws and I will closely follow the debate in detail to see what will be accepted from the amendments and whether we have heard each other, so key messages, if we know these laws are a cause for us, to put education in priority and to put those who are educated in the center, students and students, not printers, not teachers, not dads and moms, no, me going to school, then we will take a huge step forward. Everything else will be a step back that I don't think we have the time or the potential to survive another step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30738	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30739	I'm very glad you opened these questions, because we share some of the same values and probably the reasons why we did this is very clear. In this home, I mentioned maybe through one sentence, we adopted a lot of important system education laws that stand out for everything that you and I are talking about. I am a slightly older generation, and I know the same authors of all textbooks from primary school to university, but I also know that we entered into the system law learning outcomes, the application of acquired knowledge, the quality of education in Serbia that was projected long ago in early 2000, and it fell. So we started a new curricula, a new curricula framework, and we started changing the teaching and learning cycles. It's a process of first basic, fifth grade and first grade, just to make this happen what we're talking about. The textbook just has to follow it. I'll agree with you that so far the textbooks have given their purpose. The last law has made competition with textbooks and it's their biggest contribution, but if you see that procedures are pounding, I don't know how else to say, and they last long, you can't meet the obligations. Unlike other activities, the school has September 1st. You refuse August and July, it's a useless month, a vacation, every run for you to bring something is insufficient and then you lose a year, you lose your rhythm, and it happens to you regularly. So I think this is what we get for efficiency. I certainly care about the quality of the textbooks in the first place, the availability of all students, the price that must be reduced by a number of other things. The digital textbook isn't just a purpose, because it's fashion, but if you see, we did a pilot project, let's say children in fifth grade, which is the greatest indicator of some changes in his life and growing up, when he stops learning from nature and society, as you said, starts learning some sciences. Their biology is abstract, the concept of a cell too. Now that you're inserting some of the elements that are close to them and you're bringing them into a better position, and you're asking them what they think, then you get what you and I are talking about. So here we are at exactly the same wavelength, and the purpose of this law is to just improve these shortcomings, hence the textbooks that have been brought in for these other cycles will apply. So we're changing now to introduce cycle changes that are expected to monitor the quality of education. So it's unnecessary to say why the census was introduced by 5%. You know, some little publisher who's gonna make one or two quality textbooks has a right to the game. It's a story where we certainly expect it to be better quality. Of course they're going to learn about antifascism, of course all the values my parents taught me, including teachers and teachers, and that's that we're all equal by age, half and nation, and all the other values that must certainly be. For almost 39 years, I've been saying that every part of the school education system has to rest on the one to whom it is dedicated, the student and the student. Never a teacher has a problem when he makes a decision, when he has a dilemma, where the problem is now, it will be in the interest of students or students. If that's what he's thinking, then there's no problem. When it comes to NOK, I apologize only to say a sentence, I have tried this law many times to enter for my term of office, but somehow he has not come to order in the procedure. In order to get the urgency of entering, it was this category – we will lose money, and it is not purpose to ourselves. He's a big help and I wouldn't give up on him if I didn't have a better one and a better one. So this is what we deserve, and I am now dependent on the training of 80,000 people from this one support given to all other European countries. Why not get Serbia, which has passed decent smart laws and brings reform programmes? Our fifth-grade IT is a hit in Europe, and in Serbia, it is rarely anyone who wants to say it. We exposed all the children to one positive experiment. I think this time, and when we were doing a high school reform, we asked the student parliaments of high school, really all the procedures were very democratic, so I wouldn't be asking this about the couple right now, it's not a condition anyway. The condition is to make a good relationship of interest and qualifications with what the market requires, to comply with all European frameworks, because people from different countries come to us, to study our people in different places, on various continents. So our Ennik-Narik Center was a narrow throat, when I took over the Ministry there were over 3,600 unsolved situations. We managed to unblock it, but it's not a professional body. The agency should be a professional body and it should happen in one way as in all European countries. We will certainly be very interested, I am someone who will follow the work and be in charge of the work of such a type of agency, and it will not cost the state much more, because people from the Ennik-Narik Centre and people from the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education who deal with adult education and all those other categories will just fall into that body, with the fact that through fees they will charge their services and cover their work. That independence itself gives him some good prerogatives. When I tell you about the inspection, we had to liberalize some model that could all be inspectors. It turns out that only 0.01% of people can do that. So, we were out of inspection, and that was one of the reasons, for many reasons, she'll know what I'm talking about, and the maximum number, and she retired, she can't get a job, etc. I've appealed to every mayor, every president of the municipality that if there's a problem from education, I'll turn my back on him and tell him all the worst against him. So all the methods I used to keep the territory out of it. We're not arranged for the state to need inspectors. I don't think we're going to fix education by bringing in how many thousands of inspectors, but there must be. On the other hand, we change modes and models of work, which is an external evaluation, which is an evaluation of the quality of institutions. So, a lot of the topics we've put into system laws, these laws are now helping to make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30740	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30741	Thank you. Dear Minister Sarčević, the Honorable Minister Ruzic with his associates, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a united debate, first of all three draft laws, educational laws. So, the National Qualifications Framework Act, textbooks and educational inspection. I have to say for these three laws that they really are one big step forward again, as well as the proposal for a law on electronic administration and on the national infrastructure of geospace data. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the bills mentioned, and my presentation will be focused on educational laws at the very beginning. Minister, I've already said they're a big step forward. At the very beginning, I will talk about the proposal for a law on the national qualification framework. Minister, we've been waiting for this law for 10 years, I think, and we're one of the few countries that doesn't have a national qualification framework. Practically, in the previous 10 years, the national framework has been mainly under project initiatives. Otherwise, it should be said quite frankly that such a large project the Ministry of Education could not have just done. So, a task force has been formed to draft laws in which representatives are next to your ministry another five ministries and over 20 institutions, so one big responsible job. When it comes to the law itself, it is equally important, it should be said, both for the entire academic community and for the employers. Practically, it seems to me, Minister, that this is a key moment to create a link between the education system and the labour market. Practically, what does this law represent? It constitutes the basic foundation of the national qualification framework and establishes certain bodies and procedures for its development and implementation. Otherwise, Serbia has many qualifications especially in higher education. It seems to me, Minister, that these data confuses employers with a number of new expertise and scientific knowledge. Those in certain diplomas can't find a relationship with occupation and get the impression of what someone can do based on their diploma. That is why there is also this law, to link standards of qualifications and standards of occupation and to present it through the register to citizens and employers. It will be clearly defined which skills and abilities an individual will possess after acquired education and what kind of work he can do. Otherwise, according to some statistics, there are over two thousand calls in Serbia and the establishment of a national framework will know exactly what someone needs to know after the studies have been completed. Now a very important topic, as far as the European Union is concerned, only briefly. She has defined key priorities with Serbia to support it. Of course, this law is one of these priorities and certainly that co-operation with the European Union is a commitment that we have made, it is important that we get the funds from the European Union at our disposal. As far as the European Union is concerned, it has made 25m euros available to us, if I am not mistaken. When it comes to the next law of this united debate of educational laws, it is the Law on textbooks, a very important law. It is necessary to say what is achieved by this law. Its aim is to prepare, approve, issue, withdraw and monitor textbooks, manuals and other teaching tools for primary and secondary schools. You've talked a lot about this law, but I'm just going to mention some of the basic things that this law makes. First, that 5% quota you mentioned earlier. So in some previous law, they had to ask not only teachers, but also 5% of the student population. Minister, I'd just like to make a comparison. I think we've had over 80 publishers. Compares for, say, America has only one publisher, Slovenia of one publisher, Croatia three publishers. But here it's important to abolish the black market, so students' cooperatives are being introduced. The criteria are defined who can be the proposing, with the intention of keeping the list longer, without conflicts of interest and in order for the process to be more transparent. There is still a commitment, in the previous law there were three years, for three years the textbooks are printed, now four years, except in certain cases when the ministry gives consent. One of the papers and a very important thing is low budget textbooks. It's one of the most important things about textbooks that you print for national minorities, but not just for them and textbooks for undersighted children, but also textbooks in secondary vocational schools. So far we've had a problem, you just said yourself, that some publishers didn't even want to think that so few textbooks are printing, now we're solving this problem and it's not going to be a problem anymore, but we're going to have the law. The law also provides for digital textbooks. It's the inevitableness of the modern world today. You've done test projects with classes in fifth grade, good stuff, and I think that's going to happen very quickly. But it's also foreseen what's a mandatory set about parents. So far, parents have had to shop, and now they know exactly what the parent has to buy in that mandatory set. Minister, I want to finally praise one important thing, these are free textbooks, it seems to me that over 90,000 students will get free textbooks, in line with, I say, a birth-enhancing strategy, I am not going to say here that an entire city of 30,000 people disappears in Serbia annually, to remind me of the good measures of the president of the state of Alexander Vukic, to encourage birth. It's really one great thing, and you're making a full seal of it and about free textbooks to give every third child, and to say the next child in the family gets a free textbook. It's really a commendable thing. As for the third law of this united debate, an important law regarding that inspection. We have often said here that it is a matter that in certain places, even because of our retirement, but as we remain, there is practically no educational inspector in that local self-government. This law will fix it. What is the purpose of this law? The affairs of the educational inspector, the authority and the assurances following inspection of municipalities and cities are prescribed, as well as the identification of the number of inspectors in local self-government, which is a very important matter. It is also necessary that an educational inspector cooperates closely with an educational counselor. I think you're in practice already, to say a very important thing, is in many cases ministers, they intertwine their jurisdiction. It's something we really need to talk about. At the very end of these educational laws, once again, there is a big step forward and certainly that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support them. Speaking of the next two laws in this united debate, the National Infrastructure of Geospace Plans Act. Practically what's his goal? By bringing it all the geospace data of state institutions in Serbia, such as those on buildings, land, practically traffic, infrastructure, hydrography, protected areas, will be standardised in digital format through web services available to the public sector and citizens. Minister, I must say that in developed countries 90% of all decisions taken at national level are based on spatial data. If we listen to the voice of experts in this area, they say geospace data is now a national resource. Otherwise, not getting too far into this law, just to say that really, when we enter the EU, it seems to me that all this data will have to be aligned with the most modern EU countries such as, say, France or Germany. As far as the Law on Electronic Administration is concerned, it aims to allow for simpler, more transparent and efficient functioning of electronic public services. The practical essence of digitisation is to change the way public services are provided by using new technologies to send the papers to the archive and history, where they certainly belong in the modern world. What will this new law bring? All of this will affect the reduction of administrative costs, increase legal certainty and transparency of work, reducing the space for corruption and other types of abuse of public authority. At the very end, I would like to say something, when in local self-government you disable in any place in Serbia, that a single paper stands either in a remote closet or in a drawer, when you introduce modern software technologies into the work of the administration, you rule out the possibility of solving any problem being in the jurisdiction of only one individual. That's what I think the essence of this law and everything we're talking about. No longer, I would like to say that these laws are indeed a major step forward and the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the said laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30742	Thank you, colleague Kosanic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30743	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, as usual and in the way this Assembly works in this and in previous councils, we again have a debate of laws that are not interlinked, whose solutions are not subject to the laws, so that today we should have three ministers here, in a united debate of five laws, which I repeat, have no connection and as we could hear in the opening part and address of ministers, no connection of the Law of Education has to do with the Law on Electronic Administration or with the Law on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data. But now what's there is, I'll try to say our opinions on these laws. Of course, education laws came in the old good practice of this government by emergency procedure, without enough time for MPs to get to know them and without enough time to listen to what the professional public and citizens have to say about these bill proposals. This is particularly interesting regarding the Law on textbooks, since this Assembly, or previous assembly, but almost the same ruling majority, adopted the Law on textbooks in 2015. That's when certain targets were defined. The objectives set at the time were to ensure greater transparency in the approval of textbooks with a reduction in corruption, to ensure the availability of textbooks for all categories, as well as the protection of the family budget. It would be our turn to hear from the minister whether and to what extent these objectives have been achieved, because in the light of the Law, we see that these objectives have not been achieved. We have here several reasons why this has not been achieved and what has not exactly been done in accordance with the previous law that the same people we now expect to vote for this law voted three years ago. No standards and instructions on their application for an electronic supplement have been adopted. It was not in time in accordance with Article 16 of the applicable law that no public invitation was issued. The list of selected textbooks is not published in the first year or second year of law enforcement until December 31st, as it says here, who wrote the explanation because the deadlines and procedures are inadmissible in the way it is prescribed by law. Well, wait for who's responsible for bringing the law where it's inconclusive to do something. Who's the responsible minister? We have a problem here. We have education ministers in the government who are not, we hear, it's spoken as commendable, not members of the ruling party. I'm asking a question which policy are they doing here? Your own personal or party policy that proposed them? Is there then a SNS policy about education, and then a certain minister does or does this depend on one minister to another, he comes with one of his own agendas. Do you now come with solutions and completely change, not alterations and additions, but completely amend the Law on textbooks, realizing that the one we brought in two years ago is not applicable. Who's responsible for this, I ask? You can say, of course, Minister, I wasn't there, but I'm sorry, the people who are supposed to vote today, they were there, they passed this law, and today we'll probably hear how best this law is, how it solves all the problems. And what are the guarantees? How can we trust them when at the beginning of this debate we have to realize that the law they voted is not good and you are now coming with a new solution. With new solutions from the minister who needs to achieve the same goals. When I set out to read the explanation of why this law was needed, I was extremely touched, so to speak, the beginning. You've been speaking this historicly, setting yourself up for the whole 2000 education reform process here. And, then you say, the reform started in 2002 and the changes that were then made were about democratisation, decentralisation and depoliticalisation of the education system. That's the line. And what can we do now in 2018? That none of it was accomplished, that everything was brought back. That education is more centralised than it was back then. That education is less democratic than it was then and there is no depoliticalisation, that all things are done contrary to those objectives set in 2002 and that is fine if we look at who was in power then and what ideas he wanted to change Serbia in relation to what we have today and what parties see Serbia's future and the regulation of Serbia's social and state order. We are now, here we have proposals for new laws that continue to go towards further centralised, towards further politicisation of the education system without any democratisation. Mr. Minister, you're getting your ass kicked by this law of educational inspection right now. Fuck you to do in education whatever you want. Your explanation is that there aren't enough educational inspectors. The previous law did not practically allow almost anyone to become an educational inspector. And now you're going to a completely different extreme -- anyone can. What conditions are defined by Article 6. The law on educational inspection for the selection of an educational inspector? They practically don't exist. You say – every person who has acquired a higher education has at least five years of work experience and needs to pass a state exam and an inspector's exam. Do you think these are enough criteria? We don't think they're enough. Generally, just a little bit more going back to this textbook law, it's a good thing that digital textbooks are being introduced, the more it's being worked out, the more we support it, and that's the future. We hope that this will be applied as soon as possible and that digital textbooks will be accessible, that all children in Serbia will be able to achieve their education in this modern way. But also, to our amendments, which unfortunately we won't be able to discuss because again here in the Assembly repeats the farce with the submission of amendments, so that we can't discuss the laws in particular, we're proposing free textbooks for everyone, Minister. If the Constitution says basic education is mandatory and free, our interpretation is that it is the obligation of the state to provide all students with free textbooks. We think it's the only way, the only way Serbia can catch up with other countries in the world, because the greatest potential this country has is people and the most where we have to invest is education. So, this cost is minimal when compared to the costs of various subsidies that this government gives to various projects and raises the question of their cost-effectiveness and benefits for the development of Serbia's economy. But that's not the point now. A few things about the Law of Educational Inspection. That law, you said it yourself, is short. But in it is the most important member of the 15th, who gives authority to an educational inspector and makes up almost half the law. It lists enormous responsibilities, but it leaves very broadly defined certain things. Let's say, here, one of the powers of an educational inspector is to give notice and order or propose measures and leave an appropriate time limit for removing detected illegalities. What does that mean, Minister, an appropriate deadline, we could see, for example, on various occasions, when you used an educational inspection in your term to discipline and replace the directors of some schools that you were politically reluctant to do. For example, it was at Svetozar Miletic School in Zemun. And this now gives you a beating, to come, to send an inspector to any school and to use such wide-ranging norms, an appropriate deadline, whether the appropriate deadline is 30 days, 10 days or two days, and thus to exercise influence, political influence and replace a school director. I'm sure that's what's going to happen, because we already had that as an example in the previous period. When you continue to look at this law, you have jurisdiction, where it is said that the educational inspector of the ministry responsible for education and education, and his powers are – preparing the minister responsible for education tasks – a proposal for a solution after appeal against the solutions of the municipal or city administration brought into the exercise of inspection supervision. So, you are this second degree, that is, this educational inspector at your ministry, he will have these powers, and he will be able, among other things, to request reports and information on the conduct of entrusted inspection tasks, to organise joint supervision with inspectors and authorities entrusted with the exercise of inspection oversight. So this future inspector or that person will have tremendous authority to do things the way you want them to. Does this with the experience we have guarantee decentralisation, depolitisation and democratisation of the education system? No, I don't. No, Mr. Minister, and that's why we submitted the amendments. We hope you'll consider them. They are not praises about the government, which we will hear in the debate in particular, nor are they amendments – they are deleted, but are amendments that are trying to improve the essence of these laws. Unfortunately, we won't have much time to talk about them. As far as the national qualification framework is concerned, our basic objection is to form an agency. I see you've also praised that solution in this debate so far. I have to ask the question. Of course, Minister, you weren't and you weren't, as you say, a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, but when the party came to power six years ago, one of the promises was that it would end the largest number of 107 agencies in the Republic of Serbia, that it would bring them down to a maximum of 20. It's a big political story. Six years later, has one agency been abolished? It's not one, but here's a new one. With this law, there have been new agencies in the past. How do we understand that? How do we understand today's establishment of a new agency with a political message – we will abolish all agencies in Serbia? We help you and suggest that instead of the agency, the jobs you trust with the law, this is done by the Council for the National Framework and Qualifications and the sectoral larger ministries. We also propose criteria for selecting members of these bodies that you have failed to define by the bill. Now a few words about the e-Government Act. I, for example, expected the use of the term "effectiveness" several times, since it somehow seems to me to be one of the main objectives of the adoption of the Law on Electronic Administration is precisely greater efficiency. In 12 minutes, speaking of the law, the minister twice used the word "effectiveness", while, ministers, for the education laws in seven minutes, you were able to say the word "effectiveness" twice. Otherwise, you're very fond of that word, and I'm very bothered by that word, because I of the 100 problems we have in education, somehow I wouldn't put that efficiency in the first 50, and you guys like to talk about efficiency in education, and I always get chilly when you use that word. I've listened to the Minister about the Law on Electronic Administration, but I haven't heard anything about what this law brings, what is this new value, the new goal that this law will bring? What are we going to do at some point further and how do we improve the lives of citizens, businesses and the like? We've heard about examples that already exist. We heard about the electronic building permits. We heard about the electronic log, said the minister that he was going to go to I don't know how many schools and cities. We've heard about the electronic system in health care, which no longer works than it does, to be honest, but it exists. And here we had an ex-minister, the current Prime Minister when she was a minister before you, she boasted about publishing electronic health books that were supposed to be issued, as she says, for a maximum of 60 days. The average people in those books waited six months. So we're so effective at applying those measures that the government is taking. I agree, this is the way we have to go. There's no other way, of course. We're not going back to the Stone Age, we're going to rock decisions, but what's new? What deadlines are this law gonna take place? You're talking about the "Baby Welcome to the World" programme. Great, but it already exists. How will this law and in what time period will it improve? Who's the inspector? So we haven't heard anything specifically about what this law is about, but about what's already there. Finally, unfortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister is not here to talk about Mrs. Mihajlovic, talking about the National Infrastructure Act, about geospace data. Minister Ruzic read, I think, some explanation of the importance of this law, and that is the law that is important, so important here was that in this Assembly where and the laws, such as this from education, come-through, as through a flow water heater, within a few days. This law has been in the process since July last year, and now, here, it's just been put on the agenda. As one of the things why this law should be passed is the fulfillment of the national programme for Serbia's progress on the Duing Business List. I really can't believe we're hearing that the government has a programme for Serbia's progress on the Dunig Business List. I would pray really, I don't know if this is Mr. Ruzic you can, since Mrs. Mihajlović isn't here, to explain to us that if the government has both this program and everything, we've been listening here about this Duing Business List for years, how have we managed to get your coalition partner Ramush Haradinaj, with the government of Kosovo, Kosovo, to the 40th place of this Duing Business List, and only to be 43? I ask you, is this the list on which Serbia should focus, or is it the list that says the largest number of people at risk from poverty in Europe in Serbia, and that Serbia is first in the list? What does this government do to move Serbia from that place, not to be the first? Because it is a shame that Serbia today is the first on the list to talk about the number of people at risk of poverty. It's supposed to be the policy of this government and the focus of this government, but unfortunately it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30744	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30745	I have to give more answers here. I really don't find myself fascinated by someone's knowledge or ignorance of the system we're talking about. If someone has a problem with the word "effectiveness", I don't mind, it's one of the essential words to me. Serbia has been waiting a long time to reform its education system, and if we do not use that word, we will probably be where we were. There's no shame in saying if anything was done and it was wrong, or it's better to go after it so someone doesn't mind. There are very clear reasons why the Law on textbooks cannot endure the present form as it exists. It's brought in a little different, faster, and then many of the problems that will be caused are presented. To pretend that I don't see them and continue to do the same, or to ask them to change? The very procedure where you change a word requires that it be more than 50% of the members. There aren't so many important things that a different system would be through changes and additions, that's only so much, if we're going to have a fair conversation. The term "batin" does not exist. There's an expression that someone's breaking the laws and being sanctioned for it and it's very simple. When we talk about the lack of decentralisation, it says in this law that competences are passed on to the AP Vojvodina, both the city and the municipality. Imagine if there was no control factor of the Republic over them, I wouldn't understand it, I don't know, really. The Republic Inspector is a beat-up minister. No, he's working by law, he's got to work by law. The whole public is directed to tell me I'm rectoring. I don't want to violate university autonomy. The inspection is the only tool that remains available to me to do what I do if the law is broken, which is likely to be seen in the coming days. I don't know if we're talking about Kragujevac. (Goran Bogdanovic: Mitrovica? ) You know about Mitrovica, don’t let me open the subject to you as well as to what is going on in Mitrovica. There are a lot of things that you mentioned here, but here, let's say the Agency. I'm really not allergic to words – agency, if we find that it doesn't cost more than what we already have. If you have a semi-efficient model of diploma recognition through a center that's in the Ministry, you're jumping into your stomach now because you want us to return the council to the Ministry. Then again, the minister has enormous power. If we're saying that there's a professional body that does it better, which there are experts there, which the ERIC Center now doesn't have, and pays the state for people who work at the ERIC Center. And what about the people who work at the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education who deal with adult education for life? Well, it's the same number of people, we're talking about some director and maybe two or three people, charging taxes. That efficiency, I have to use the word again, not wait two years for a degree in people who can't start working. So I said three thousand and six and something diploma was when I took over the vault. And if I hadn't found some original ways to speed it up, it'd still be in trouble today, because we don't have reviewers, we have nothing to pay for. There are degrees that come once, you have to make a team for them. So this is a professional story. I don't have a problem if someone said you don't need an agency. This one won't cost the state, and it'll be a pro, and the minister won't have the force and be a central figure. Since the Law on the Education and Education System was passed, check in Serbia, I may have interfered with the selection of directors on the fingers of two hands. Only where they were rudely breaking all the legal standards. If someone doesn't have to do it in the country, then democracy really wins, except people abuse it, there's that option. Whoever broke the funding, and I have these cases, we've asked everyone to correct the list. Whoever was 65 and didn't want to retire, that's what I asked. So you had to force someone away because they didn't respect the law. I'm just a man who adheres to his principles and applies everything said in this home. All democratic selection procedures for all directors have been respected so far. I won't respect where I see people knowingly and deliberately going to abuse, and I'm going to publicly explain it, every single case. So, the free textbooks in this country were once like an experiment by the city government, that no one was allowed to draw on them and it was a very bad project. Ask all the parents and students from that period, I asked very much. Never, not when I was a student. We're going to have over 90 grand now. We'll have a minimum of 15% cheaper and one good logic and a reduction of other kinds of costs we'll come very soon to make it true. It's the same as the category of commitment of high schools. We're working with the UNICEF project to make it happen. There also needs a network of homes and transportation and a series of other things to be done. It's easy to say just that. So, really none of the things you've managed to honor I wouldn't accept, except for one sentence, that really much more money needs to be invested in the education system, that's where I'll agree with you from A to S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30746	Thank you, Minister. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30747	Thank you. I'll do it very briefly. So any criticism is always welcome. However, what I was saying in the introduction, and also because of citizens and citizens and because of the public, it is important to point out and not think about such a significant Law on Electronic Administration, which is practically a product of much broader consultation, one process that lasted up to a year and a half, with all the reference institutions, all those who are practically part of this whole reform. Although it is bad to clearly standardise, for example, how data on Serbian citizens will be processed in electronic treatment, they can agree with criticism. If it's bad enough that we're standardizing the connection of the system with this law, then I'll go along with the criticism again. And also, if it's bad enough to define which infrastructure we're going to work with in the electronic process, even if that's bad, I'm going to go along with the criticism again. Of course it's legitimate to criticize and attack, I have nothing against it, it's okay, but I think this law is really very important, as is significant what my colleague Sarcevic here was saying, as it is true that these laws have connections, and not that they have nothing to do with it. If we're talking about education inspections, educational inspection, if we're talking about the inspection law, and then we link it to digitization, then I think it's very binding, far from being. Therefore, I thank you, I repeat, for these criticisms, but I repeat, it is also important for citizens to point out the importance of this law. I said it in the introduction, I'll do it again and during this debate, that's no problem at all. We believe that the introduction of order into the system cannot be interpreted as one of the bad tendencies that the government wants to implement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30748	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30749	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In that part of the issues raised, observations and other comments concerning the SNS and our policy in the field of education, this policy, ladies and gentlemen, is clear and presented in this room, among other things, several times, and, if necessary, that policy implies modernisation, among other things, and in the sector of direct education, education directly. It is a policy that connects the education system with the subsystem or system, as you wish, science, research, connects it with practical results in this direction, and connects it to the economy and again practical achievements. These things are familiar and clear. In this regard, the country's progress on any of these grounds needs a man who really cares about something in this country just to be happy, if he cares about anything but himself, if there's a width between him and the circle with him. The Duing Business List has a lot to do with it and progress on that list includes opening new jobs in this country, if someone has not noticed so far. The fight against poverty also comes true in that way, if someone didn't notice it. The only shame about this poverty is that today he is dealt with in such a way by those who directly generated him, directly generated with hundreds of thousands of lost, extinguished jobs in this country. They made people poorer. Today, they should only be satisfied that Serbia is better listed than in their time, among other things, on the Duing Business List. Decentralization and depolitisation, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, is better than at their time, until I can't hear, until I see, and I've seen my own eyes and I've been holding in my hands a memo that was sent to schools in my time, when it's recommended that the best high school students I went to connect with some successful firms, they sent their memo to schools, and they put it in words, imagine, don't rely, don't rely on, quote, gossip that we're going to be our most capable, and thus I'm ending, Mr. Chairman, to send it to the white world, to someone to give them. It was then a policy and a relationship to the students in this country and to their parents and schools. Find it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30750	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30751	Five laws, but some colleagues said, not much related in the joint debate, three educational, two concerning administrations in the broadest sense of the word. One deals practically with property, to translate it into some more comprehensible language, that's the one that deals with geospace data, and the one about electronic business. Nothing new. So that's what usually happens, so we get a bunch of laws, put everything in a joint debate, probably mostly because someone's wanted it, or what's written in Serbian, or some of those reasons, they make us discuss it in a joint debate. We, the Independent Parliament Club, read and analyzed all five laws. There's both of them. There are also those who could get almost total support. There are those who are bad with intent. There are bad ones with no intention. But I thought we'd change the atmosphere a little bit, so yeah, well, now I'm saying what's good and say that we're going to support it and not get into those demagogue jumps and debates that are usually common, unfortunately, in this Parliament's assembly, and not just in this one. But unfortunately, the harsh reality dictated by the ruling majority leads me to have to comment on it in a way that is only possible, and that is – nothing is wrong with you, gentlemen of the Ministers. They're the worst in the world. And the main proof of this is, let's say, that the first law concerning the national qualification framework has 369 amendments to the ruling party, or SNS MPs wrote 369 amendments. That means your law is no good. That means you paint, write, delete, whatever. That means you have no idea. That means - who brings you here, because here, the parliamentary majority of your work thinks that this is the worst possible thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30752	Please don't insult our guests here and the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30753	They didn't complain. They laugh with pleasure. Tell the chairman. Here, you can see it in the video. So 52, 53 members, 369 amendments. That means you haven't guessed about that law or point or point, let alone something else, capital letters more or less. It's a picture of what we have today. It's a picture of parliamentaryism today, it's a picture of democracy, stability or any other diagnosis. It is a picture of everything that burdens Serbia as a normal country. What's that for? Why is that? To prevent the opposition from making its remarks on these laws? Well, it's part of democracy, it's something to endure, or maybe the smarter ones listen, so maybe they hear a good solution that can fix the law. No, this is where it's supposed to show who's stronger, and it only shows up after the microphone, only in the cabinet, only in the Prime Minister's office, the president or something. That's when it's supposed to go out on the field, so it's going out on a megdan for terrorists, guns, savages, that's not going so easy. That's what the first question is: can I come to that territory? But the heroism in terms of -- now I'm going to show you, only when there are 100 cops in front of me or security or 120 and some MPs, then we're heroes here. I thought that at least the two of you, who I have an opinion about, which is more good than bad, I apologize for putting your survival in the government at risk, because every compliment you get goes to a lot of damage. Since a reconstruction has already been announced, which is about to take place, I'm already afraid, but, well, I had to tell the truth. In this House, someone needs to tell the truth. I know it's not easy, and that's why I took this job as an old man, like how I get some compliments on that subject. It is a pity that some good effort, ministers more or less, and I was a minister than a minister's associate, is corrupt in this way. Of course, ministerial associates do 99% of the work on the new law and the application of the law. Ministers are here to give political guidance, and that's how it is, in every country, and that's how it should be. Compliments should always be on the side of co-workers, and of course responsibility should always be on the minister's side. It's always been like that. It's the other way around. Here's the rule - if it's bad, it's your fault, if it's good, I'm responsible. That has to change. We still have some bad habits. It's a new minister, a new law. The law on textbooks, we said, in 2015. What happened in two years to change so dramatically? That explanation I just heard from the Minister of Education isn't satisfactory, because I think it was that the past law was bad because it was brought in quick. Well, well, I guess there's another reason you can do some good things for a little bit, and sometimes you can work really long, so you can do bad things. That's not a good explanation. So it would be good to focus more on the essence of parliamentaryism, democracy, administration, government work, the work of ministers, and not just on petty demagogy, which is who's going to yell harder, who's going to say, see me, do you know who I am, and we see it every day. That's why we're not doing well. We can lie to each other as much as we want about our progress on the Duing Business List, on this list, on that list, that the dinar is the second currency in the world, that we are the most important state in the world, that everyone is afraid of us all. Let's face it, let's go outside and see that that's not exactly what we like to talk about. It would be very interesting, Minister of Education, to ask you – did the SNS MPs have any consultations with you, which is perfectly natural for the minister who is part of the ruling coalition to consult with the ruling majority in parliament. Did they give you any warning, any questions that don't suit you with these 369 solutions that you've wrongly put in your bill, so they have to fix it? You might want to explain that to them, because then we would give up on these amendments or we would have pulled them out already today, not to pull them out just the other day when it comes before the voting day, or it's a common bad opera show, the worst in which we have to play democracy, play procedure and play with something nice called democracy, and what has a long history, not exactly in Serbia, but on this continent, yes, to make democracy out of it. Democracy is a cartoon of democracy, and that's what's going on here. I invite you not to take part in this. I call upon you to withdraw the laws. If the ruling party through its MPs has 369 objections to your law, something is wrong with either your law or those MPs. One and another reason to withdraw the law. If the law is wrong because it is bad, if the MPs are not good because it is a bad law to put before the bad MPs and I think it is a good thing. I hope that you two will survive this government reconstruction in terms of mandate, that we will soon have good recommendations, good law offerings, of course, which your associates will offer you, that you will have more understanding and more spirit, democracy than it normally is in the last five, six years, because without it none of these laws will be able to be implemented in a valid manner. This is where we come up with the fundamental problem of our society. It happens sometimes to be a good bill. For God's sake, it happens relatively often, 30% of the law in this council was. It's laws that are okay. Some other 30% could be good, 30% completely pointless. So, out of those 60%, it would be very good if we were, for, how long, a year and a half, we were able to pass 60% of the laws that are good and enforceable. But they're inconclusive here. We have a lot of examples here. Some who hear well, at least that's what they look like to hear well should learn not to win when a colleague talks. (Serbian Filipovic: You are a case, not a colleague. Will you give me the conditions to speak, or do you not hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30754	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30755	No, I can't, they bother me, let me. Therefore, laws are passed in order to be implemented. What's our experience with that? Here, we had a few years of rallying here. So it was a show of praise that some Law of Law, which has something to do with this last law, would bring great changes to us, that two million illegal objects would be put in order, that it would all be settled. Today we have 500 thousand illegal objects more than we had two years ago. A legally-founded facility that has been built according to all regulations is rare in Serbia, and it is rare because people who work under the law and in the area of housing and in the area of any construction have problems. It's hard for them, it takes a long time, it costs a lot. People are simply looking, and they say, "What are you doing, by law, since when is it done according to the law in this country?" That's terrible. We have this bill on national geospace data infrastructure. This law was written with good intentions, no doubt, but it turned out badly. Why? Because in the work, in the final version, it will come, that my colleague Sonja will speak extensively and more invitingly than I do, but only in principle, because it is prescribed by law with European rules, EU rules, but prescribed in such a way as to maintain this state of powerlessness. This law is not enforceable, first of all, because it depends on the data found in the field and in the books. What do they have to do with the real situation? Can anyone here, not ask the ministers, but their associates, say that what is written in land books, anywhere in Serbia, corresponds to the current state, or real state with more than 50% in any city? I can say what I remember. One hundred illegally built objects in the last few years, not to mention what was illegally built in 20, 30 years and nothing has been done. Of the pastures that are in the city center, and that's the same thing, that you have a mass of legalizations that have been done in the last 15-20 years, but are still not listed in the land books, that the monasteries are practically like one library that some horde of drunk, illiterate tampered with all living, so half taken away, half brought. Can any of Serbia's citizens be sure, when they go to the Catastre, that they know that what he's interested in is fitting the truth there? I know by my own example, so I know by the experiences of my friends, acquaintances, citizens who report to me that it's... The cadastra is something, there's one proverb -- it can be, but it doesn't have to mean, with the right accent. It's something that maybe it is, maybe it isn't, and it's causing a lot of problems. Let's finish that part first, and then we can easily enforce good laws if they're written with good intentions. We still have a lot of laws written with good intentions, I think, but that doesn't apply well, or that implementation is very bad. We have a law on construction where it's a felony if you start building something without a building permit. We have, I keep saying, Nebojsin 8a, "Belgrade on Water", which is the same illegal construction, so before the Belgrade elections, construction began, as I understand it, bus stations in New Belgrade, next to the flea market. Zero license. So there's no permit for anything, anything that has anything to do with projecting or building, that object that's started, and then they say it's not a station, it's a parking lot, it's not even a parking permit. Let's do a little bit of doing what's possible. We have a law, not a set, but a set of laws that define elections, media, candidate representation, election rules. Where's the funeral? Where does the law say you have black jeeps with dark glass without plates, as part of the election process? Where do you have someone to sign you, to hit the lines, did you come and vote? That you have in your Rules of Procedure that someone sitting in a session of the Assembly can insult his colleague without a foundation and that the chairman is right not to hear it? (Srbislav Filipovic: No one listens to you. Here, now, one more time and he's still pretending to understand what I'm saying. (Srbislav Filipovic: You will win again.) Where did that come from? Where'd it go? We're talking about educational laws, digital textbooks. Wherein ye are taught to come as a messenger of the people, and to insult the truth, ye most certainly insult men who have voted in error for you. Therefore, dear ministers, with yet another desire to remain in this government, and with the desire that your associates get more opportunities to offer you good legal solutions that you will support and with the desire to at least while this mandate lasts, you have fewer problems with the parliamentary group that should give you support, not that it writes 369 amendments as if you have made a mistake and the size of the letters, let alone the essence of the law, and that Serbian citizens will soon come to have a power that will respect the laws, which will know where the borders of the state are in which they are located, who will know what language is spoken in that country, which will know whether their coalition partner is a terrorist or not, who will know where and for what time they sell, who will not have the power to fight in half the night from the bookshop that is closed, but that they will have the power to do their job in a proper way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30756	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30757	Member 107, Mr. Marinkovic. Since Zoran Zivkovic said we should tell the truth, here I am now telling the truth. Zoran Zivkovic is an idiot. Zoran Zivkovic is a jerk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30758	A colleague of Martinovic, as I asked him earlier, please just do not go out with such terminology.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30759	Feel free to give me a warning. So, only an idiot and only a jerk can look forward to what happened yesterday to Mark Djuric, and that he's exulting today in the National Assembly because the Shiparian terrorists beat, tortured, and in the worst possible way insulted Mark Djuric, a senior official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Only an idiot, only an idiot, can rejoice, can rejoice, when someone is working against the interests of his own state, of course, provided that he sees Serbia as his own country. Only an idiot and only an idiot can come to the National Assembly and honor our relationship with Kosovo and Metohija, and I remind that idiot and that asshole, when he came to power in 2000, with machine guns when he was breaking into the National Assembly, said Kosovo and Metohija is a democratic issue. Not a state, not a political, not a national issue, but a democratic question, and when he comes to power by an idiot and an idiot, he will deal with the same such idiots and assholes that he brought to power in 2000 to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. How did he save him? By releasing 2,000 Shipatarian bandits from Serbian prisons, who in 2004, committed a coup over the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, and they beat them yesterday, dragged him by a tie, dragged him down the street, spat on him, yelled at him by Allah's exbar, threatened with slaughter, and an idiot and a jerk is looking forward to it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30760	Thank you. My colleague Martinovic, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) In some ways, I can also understand your burning reaction, but of course I disagree with the terminology you used. So in the interest of continuing the session in one better way and in the spirit of these draft laws that we have today on the agenda, I am determining a two-minute break to calm Parliament's passions a little bit. [[After a break.]] We're moving on with the session. (Zoran Zivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. After a break, there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Diana Vukomanovic has a word. Please, let's all calm our passions and move on. The session was really good and correct. There's no reason, especially at this point for our country to argue and insult each other in any way. Here's my colleague Vukomanović. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30762	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to begin my discussion to begin with a quote. The next example of Minister Ruzic, who also read the reasoning of the law that he referred to in the procedure in the Assembly, I will, however, read the argument relating to the Law on textbooks. Not because of you, I know that the ministers know very well, but because of the citizens. I am talking about the Ministry of Ministers – after two years of application of the analysis and review of the effects, there has been a conclusion that certain institutes and prescribed solutions are unresponsible with existing capacities of law enforcement institutions, that certain legal institutes cannot be implemented in practice, that the procedures prescribed are complex, inefficient and long-term, and that certain solutions need to be specified, certain institutions abolished, and more comprehensive solutions to regulate the competence of the authorities and deadlines, to meet the requirements of the procedural economy. The key word, in fact, is these three words – the requirements of the procedural economy. So as an MP, I can see that there has been a capitulation of one ministry and a minister in front of reality in Serbia, i.e. that the system institutions have capitulated before the requirements of the procedural economy. I would really like to remind you of the words of your distinguished predecessor, Minister Verbic, who also bowed down when he referred the 2015 Book Bill to the assembly procedure and when he said in 15 May 2015 about the Law on textbooks, the words of Minister Verbic published in "Blica" – we are withdrawing the law at this time not because anyone is under pressure. There were no pressures like that. We're facing lobbying because some lobbyists are about to jump out of the fridge when we work, and the minister explained that some of the lobbyists are publishers. Now I ask you, Minister, in a democratic dialogue – is this law, which Minister Verbic finally passed and referred to the procedure, which we adopted in 2015, and where you now find in your explanation that the institutions have not endured the pressure of these provisions, was it perhaps in your decision that several weeks before the government's reconstruction, you are courageously coming forward as the only minister who says that his resolution and institutions that are in his authority simply do not meet the requirements, as it says here, of the procedural economy? Minister, I can truly understand that your life experience, that your professional experience in the field of education has one, so to speak, sacred surveillance that sees knowledge as a commodity, as a commodity in the knowledge and education market, but I really think that the provisions of this law in all the reasons really came out to meet a powerful lobby, to call it that. In many countries, lobbying is completely legitimate. Unfortunately, there is no law on lobbying, and that may need to be regulated legally. Did you have the pressure, I ask you openly, by publishing, so to speak, the lobby, if the exact information, is about 79 publishing houses, to derivate the provisions of the still applicable law and that you refer a whole new law? Namely, there are many, many arguments erased from the current law, a lot of provisions that really do not go in favour of the home budget of students and their parents, but simply go in favour of survival in the market for profitable publishing houses. Of course, my knowledge is not comparable to your knowledge, but indeed if you are erasing the maximum retail price criterion, if you are speaking in the light of the law about the average margin of the publisher, and you are not talking about the fact that the number of students who receive free textbooks in Serbia has been drastically reduced, there is my fellow MP present, also as former Minister of Education, who in 2012 presented the information that 303,000 students receive free textbooks and 2017 and 2018 school year, that number has dropped to 86,000, although they are almost roughly budget funds, earlier 750 million for 303,000, and now 571 million are given from budget funds for these 86,000 students. So, what I'm saying is that this law systematically undermines the constitutional right of children to free education, that because of the restrictive measures of saving the parents' budget is extremely burdened, that it is simply coming and giving priority to one of the laws of the market, the laws of private publishing houses, and that we are simply systematically introducing economic laws, as much more important than what needs to be Serbia's strategic goal, which is education, investment in our most educated personnel. I can't help but look back when I talk about a set of laws that you have referred to in the procedure of those data presented by counterpart Vladimir Grecic, that for 30,000 young people, extremely educated people who have left the country, mainly Europe and North America, Serbia has lost or donated 9 billion euros to those countries. So it's a huge irreparable sum. If we treat the basics this way, so their parents, where there is a primary education, secondary education is extremely difficult, we come out to meet the economic profit, the process economy, as stated here, we simply give up what is declared the same as the government's goal, which is to increase the birth rate and retain youth. You know that on the world's list of economic forums, the World Economic Forum, Serbia is almost at the bottom of the list to retain and attract new talents. I cited this figure that Professor Grecic stated, that Serbia donated 9 billion to the most economically developed countries because it allowed such brain drains. Two decades ago, the data Grecic quoted said that about 2% of young people left Serbia, and now 15% of young educated people. So these are irreparable losses. So when we adopt, for these reasons, our parliamentary group cannot possibly give the green light to such a neoliberal one, so to speak, but not for ideological reasons, for reasons of general survival and children's rights to education. If you think and lead in this way, manage the ministry, eventually it will be a winged one – as much money, as much education. So, as much as parents can invest money in buying textbooks, in their children's education, they will be so educated, which is really destructive and contrary to the child's rights conventions, it's the opposite of the Constitution of our country, because all children should have free education. It's a declared goal. I know there are difficulties, but that's why, at the same time as we adopt this law, on the qualification system, you must also say in some explanation that no matter what we introduce this construction, which we enter into the European qualification system, it is also the fact that our most educated personnel, electric engineers, doctors, machine engineers, IT experts, is the most out of the country. This government where you are minister gives subsidies to economically strong businesses from Germany, I mean "Continental" that receive 19,000 euros per employee, even to hire our experts, but something strategic is very wrong. You don't just solve the problem of textbooks with this law, you simply set one life-long barrier for those young people who re-instruct us into a system of cruel Darwinist markets in 15 years of life, so they'll be on this cruel neoliberal capitalist market for the next 50 years, for example 65 years, where simply the law of the procedural economy that you're talking about will simply apply to everyone. That is indeed something that is a great injustice, and I really admire you. I'm sorry for giving you the freedom to give you advice, but I really admire your courage to make with this recognition of defeat and capitulation of the resolution on the application of the law that this ruling majority under the same umbrella has passed, you say that the law has capitulated and that a new law must be passed that will come out of the process economy. I still have time to look back at the second set of laws outlined by Minister Ruzic, as regards the introduction of the electronic administration system, which tracks promises and key words in the exposé of the current Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, that the long-term strategic goal is to digitise Serbia. I'm not going to look back on linguistic doubt, although I'm tempted to read the same thing from reason, but I'd say, what I'm missing and what I really see as one legitimate goal to force digitisation in a country where neither water supply nor sewerage is yet at the level of the quality of life of a decent man. Here you have explained enough criteria that your work as a minister can be worth the same. The explanation states that all parent books are required by the end of 2017 to be translated into electronic form and stored. Your ministry has a concrete question – is this goal met? So this e-Government Act really sounds like a list of good wishes. You cite examples of Montenegro having similar laws, you cite examples of highly developed countries, the United States, Italy, Germany, but you know very well how many households there are left to say, electronically illiterate. It's just that digitalization is on a long stick, and you ministers really do have to, especially in these circumstances of government reconstruction, to say how far it's reached, which you're satisfied with, because you're really giving examples that there are really serious problems in your portfolio. It is explained that the development of electronic administration in the Republic of Serbia, along with a number of strategic documents, is mainly done in a orderly, unstandardised and uncontrollable way at the central republican level. So what's your job, if not, as Minister of State and local self-government to establish that control? Since you're smiling, I must compliment you on answering my parliamentary question. You have provided information on the number of entries and deleted from the unique ballot. So there's room for me to commend you as an MP, but I really think we need to get serious, so that all our laws aren't a list of good wishes, but simply to tell the citizens what we're accomplishing, what's not real and where we're going. I am sorry that Ministerial Mihajlovic is also not present, here says my colleague, Djordje Vukadinovic, that everyone, especially some SNS MPs, is actually the one who said he would resign, if she was the minister still, but here I demonstrate female solidarity and hope to stay in the government, if for nothing, because of the Law on Gender Equality. And I'm also saying that this process of reconstruction, the continued choices of this government, are really difficult in this way, because I'm just seeing it in this Geodata Act where there's just some place missing for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So, everyone here is mentioned just not by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and if you're reading the law, you'll see that in article 10 right now, the mass of data that will be collected should belong to the Resolute Ministry of Environment. What I'm saying is that Serbia and you as government and we as MPs are looking at the 21st century. We are aware of how far Europe has gone, not to go to other rappers, not to mention, but we really have to take responsibility and say, not in this drastic way that Sarcevic did, I admire his political courage or perhaps inexperience, that he simply derivates the law by what he says – I couldn't, the institutions can't meet the requirements of the current law, and therefore I am dragging in a new one. We simply need to take responsibility and let that be the subject, to discuss it in the congregation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30763	Thank you, colleague Vukomanović. Before I give my word to Minister Sarčević, in accordance with Article 109. Rules of Procedure, I give my colleague's warning to Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic. I haven't done it before for purely tactical reasons, to continue in the democratic spirit of this session, as it has been debated and imposed from the very beginning. Minister Sarcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30764	I wouldn't answer here personally, although I've been given a lot of advice and I've become smarter already here after this address. I don't know what your hidden ambitions are, but I'll tell you that education costs both in England and in America and Serbia and that we budgeted big money for what's called free. So someone paid the tax, someone transferred funds from that tax to the education budget, and it all has a price. So as not to quote people from the press, not just from Serbia, they leave all European countries our young people. I think that within a year we managed to produce more IT experts than a few years ago, design a system that is sustainable, have the world's first model of learning programming in the fifth grade, have been in the pilot's high school since last year, and since this year, it's only a start. So the government is working on it, knows this problem, has it many richer countries. IT experts will leave for three, four thousand euros in Ireland even before from Croatia, Hungary and many other countries. And you know it. And that's what the paper says. When it comes to what you say, some kind of conflict. How can corruption be now that we've abolished the censorship? He created corruption. How can it be, when we introduced digital ones? Do you know how much it costs to make digital? Well, no publisher is looking forward to a digital textbook because it's much cheaper to make a printed one and make a better one. Ask serious companies in Germany, anywhere, why do many European countries where there are monopolies not go digital? Well, here I am brave, not for this. I don't care if I'm going to be the minister, like I was born into it, you know. I wasn't interested in it in the first term, neither now nor in the word reconstruction. I'll do my job honorably, honestly, from the heart, for the sake of the young, if I know, and someone else to assess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30765	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30766	I really want to thank you for this inspired discussion. Just for some details, let me just point to the facts. I don't think the majority of Serbian and Serbian citizens are for going back to the Stone Age. I think they're also very interested in living in a modern time, digitisation is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but it's not just a technical and technological process, it's also a social process of a couple of excellencies. I think it's important that we keep in mind when we talk about this process. As far as copying parent books into electronic form is concerned, 98% of the job is done. That's the answer to your question. As for the alleged lack of law you were talking about where the environment is not mentioned, see Article 5, and look at the provisions of the law at all, and you will see that the practical half of the provisions apply to the environment. I'd like to answer the promptly, so there won't be any misunderstandings. So, all this stuff you asked, I, well, I've granted you the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30767	Thank you, Minister Rose. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or the authorized want to apply for a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30769	Thank you. Here is another united debate on laws that are neither conditioned nor connected. I feel obliged to repeat that, like all my opposition colleagues. Of course, it's not our guests from the government, they don't decide on it, but I would still like to hear from one and the other minister, if at all possible, whether they see any conditionality and connection between these laws. I tried to see her, and I only came to the point that maybe the educational inspection is moving textbooks inside, geospace is moving them, within the national qualification framework. I don't see any conditionality or connection, and we're running out of time. It is impossible to look quality at all these laws in 20 minutes, so MPs are forced practically to choose one and deal with it in detail in the hope that the legislators will consider some argument when it comes to proposals for any changes in these bill proposals. I will focus, of course, on the Law on textbooks, if there is little time left then the National Qualifications Framework. When it comes to the Bookbooks Act, I'd start where we actually split up and ended up, which is free textbooks. I'll remind the public, the minister knows, we don't have to remind him, that the MP group has had enough amendments on two occasions that we tried to impose on the topic of the importance of free textbooks. I think we've managed to get a lot of public talk about it. I think the Ministry is thinking more about it than before, but we still don't have a legal solution that will guarantee that all children in the Republic of Serbia have free textbooks. This time I have not submitted a series of amendments, I have submitted one of the only ones related to free textbooks, and that is where it is foreseen within the law, because in this law there is now one member who says that the Government can allocate funds for the purchase of free textbooks and that every year he will see what that amount will be, whether for all textbooks or for just a certain amount. I want to hope that we will very quickly start using that provision of the law so that the government makes a decision to get free textbooks for all children, not just for those from some of the most vulnerable families. When it comes to the Law on textbooks, I want to refer to the solutions regarding the choice of textbooks and the quality of these textbooks. When I went to school, there was a single set of textbooks, one of the only textbooks that published them, and then the textbooks were inherited. It was both more favourable and cheaper and for families with more children and it was a very simple system. The quality of those textbooks was terrible, I remember those textbooks, you just couldn't understand what the writer meant. We, as far as we know in our school reform, went to the solution to expand the possibility that everyone would print textbooks to raise the quality of the textbook. It's a commendable idea, because the market can regulate that those textbooks that are of high quality simply have great demand for them and that they break out in the first place. It would be all right if we had left the market if it only worked and that those high-quality textbooks were simply coming out on their own, but no, the state had to intervene and interfere in the process. The way the state interferes in the process of choosing textbooks creates major problems for parents at school. I'll give you an example because I have a kid in primary school. So, in theory, any teacher can choose a textbook that he will work on, and in practice he can't. In practice the teacher does not choose the textbook, the school chooses the textbook. Then you have a situation where a teacher ends up with a textbook that he didn't want and asks children to buy another textbook or, since it's forbidden, so some teachers are afraid to do that you have creative versions of the same thing as for example that a chemistry teacher wants to tell kids that there are 29 chemical instruments but a textbook that she's forced to do only seven. Then she copies 29 of these instruments from another textbook, so she asks the children to copy it further and take it home and then copy and draw 29 into her notebook because she doesn't have the textbook she wanted and the one she wanted to work on. This is just one example of what happens in practice when you don't give full freedom to teachers that they can really choose the textbook they really want to work on, but you impose practically because of some quotas, I hear there are some quotas, that they all have to have the same textbook at school level for one subject. That reminds me very much of the reform we've introduced. election items. To be clear in the first grade of basics, it was already clear to me that the electoral items are not electoral, you can't choose from the three objects your child is going to go to, but all go to the one most of them define. So there's nothing electoral about it. It's the same thing with textbooks. When in this way you interfere in the work of the markets that you have freed to raise quality, you have a contrast, there is no raising quality, you only have the birth of corrupt practices. As for the choice of textbooks, I find that a big problem. As for the quality of the textbooks, this law provides for a similar solution in the previous law, that when someone has a manuscript of a new textbook, they have to go through a certain procedure, they can't just print it, that textbook has to be selected. The Education and Training Institute should give a professional evaluation of the textbook. Now, in this bill of law, it is prescribed that the Educational and Educational Institute should form some kind of committee of employees that will be composed of different experts related to the area in which the textbook is concerned, so if it is chemistry, then it is probably chemists, psychologists, educators, and if it is a figure of some artists, some educators and psychologists and so on. That commission then gets a certain deadline for that job, to give an expert assessment within a certain time limit. Then the same member of the law says, if the commission doesn't do the job within a given time period, the ministry will extend the deadline. Come on, and that would be fine, but then he goes on to say, if it isn't within the extended period that commission doesn't do it, then the Ministry will form a special special expert commission, from independent experts who won't be from the ranks of staff at the Office for Promotion, Education and Education, and that commission will carry out a professional evaluation within a certain time period, and the costs of the commission will fall to the burden of the office that did not respect its deadline. My question here is how is it possible that in any state institution we have a break-in deadline without having criminal provisions for it and that there is no sanction provided for in the law for it? The alleged punishment of the institute by paying the commission's labour costs, it's a surplus from the hollow to the blank, because it's still budget funds. Maybe there's another reason why this is happening in practice, and this is happening in practice, that these commissions are breaking deadlines, because if it wasn't happening we wouldn't put that possibility into law. So often enough happens that now the law predicts that it has to be regulated what in that case. Maybe the board within the education and training department is breaking through because there aren't enough employees, because it's overworked, and we have a ban on employment in the state sector. I really don't know what these two things are the reason why something like this gets into the law at all? I really don't think this should be prescribed by law, that it's not in law to perpetuate that there's even a possibility that the state commission will break the deadline twice, and then form a third one, but that we should work to solve what's causing the problem, and I'm saying, I don't know what's causing it. Maybe it's because of incompetent management in an office that so high-speed doesn't do its job, so deadlines break out, and maybe it's because they're overworked, there's too many textbooks, not enough time, not enough employees, and new employees can't get into a working relationship? I'd like to ask you what these two are, and I'd like to appeal that we go to a solution to what's at the root of the problem, not to put a patch on, so that the commission is out of the question, to solve a problem that isn't solved in time. As for the quality of the textbooks that our children are working with today, we're all on social networks more or less, and we've all seen different examples from different textbooks that simply missed the commissions, because they might have been rushing because they're chasing some deadlines. Two years ago, when my son left for fifth grade, I remember that first day of school, when he came home with the bracelet, he laughed. What are you laughing at, kid? I was watching a little information textbook. It is, of course, a textbook in technical and information education. Two years ago, we didn't have information as a special subject, only as an electoral one. He says, I was watching the textbook, and we're gonna, Mom, learn how to turn the computer on and off. Then I took the textbook and the kids in the fifth grade learn what they know from when they were born, how the computer turns on and off, but I was drawn to something else. The column in that textbook entitled “for those who want to know more” had an explanation of how to hang on the Internet and here you had a detailed explanation of the laptop method of uploading to the Internet, two years ago. That method of uploading to the Internet was extinct about when my son was born, around 2003-2004. What's funniest of all is, of all the information in that textbook, that kid didn't know the only thing about that laptop, because he never met it. If only it had been in some section of history, it would have been appropriate, but it was in the section “for those who want to know more. ” The tweet I wrote the team about went viral. He ended up on a TV show, which also talked about how then President Nikolic tweeted on the phone, and it's just something that we parents are meeting, and we have no one to answer. We can only put on Twitter, Facebook, and eventually attract the attention of a journalist. What I'd like to see is, and I've submitted an amendment in that direction, that within the Education and Training Institute, which is already working, it's involved in this quality assessment process of textbooks, to open up an e-mail address, some contact center where people could draw attention to these things, and then to do something about it. Of course, this is one of many such examples, and in that sense, as I said, of the amendments that I have submitted only one concerning free textbooks. In others, I tried to find solutions to some of the situations that parents face in practice, in order to make it easier for them to make a contribution to improving the quality of textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30770	Word has Minister Sarcevic
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30771	Okay, let me just say a lot of things, not just to you as a parent, but to other parents. It is precisely because some programmes are outdated and do not follow the modern era, as has been said earlier and what has been done in the Education System Act and a new curricula and programme has been adopted precisely in the fifth and first classes of primary school and high school, and then it takes four years to close these cycles slowly. That's where you were right. That's why we did everything we did. From how I turn the computer on now everyone's learning programming and we're a hit. So we've really changed that radically. Secondly, what is very important, you need to know that school is a living organism, that there are professional councils, as well as colleges. So there's a teacher's council, there's an expert council, professional activity. It is inappropriate for you to have three biologists in one school and all three use three different textbooks. Maybe one day I'm rooting for that idea, but, you know when? When we do a good quality monitoring system according to student outcomes, when that textbook is one of the means of indicators of what the teacher did. Not all fives, but the external rating says four, the teacher predicted four, got to four, and then we'll say one of the criteria, and then we'll see the importance of the choice of textbooks. For the time being, it is at the initial stage and therefore selects a teacher's bigger one on the proposals of professional councils and authorities. It's impossible that a chemist is smarter than a few in a professional activity. They have to get along. It's the role of directors, professional associates and everyone else. Of course, parents in new laws play a much bigger role and the Ministry of Education has made a model of municipal councils. It is also designed not to be a dead letter on paper with local self-governments, to act as school directors, executives to be professional in the obligation to summon them and manage them. A new tool for measuring and estimating the quality of work of institutions, I am talking about pre-university work, aims to include the full capacity of parents. The current external evaluation will be eeny roast, the parents of VI2, the fifteenth in a row and a random sample. We're looking for a whole parent team to give their full opinion of what might be asked. When it comes to associates, the Bureau isn't a big body. It would be huge for the state to pay for a body of 300 people. That is why we employed 200 associates, the best teachers from the profession in various areas from all parts of Serbia. We're training another 300. That's what we did when we didn't even have money in our budget. It is now a resource that the best teachers who have children from the competition, who are really representatives of their profession, make these additional commissions. That's why you saw that there has to be one practitioner on the board to make it happen. The Bureau isn't grounded. He's an independent body. I can't punish him as a minister. The Bureau is under the authority of the government. The director of the office is appointed by the government, but it's practical that if someone misses a deadline, which is certainly exceptional, is not the rule, let them bear the consequences, because the others will have to pay taxes for this or that. Why would someone who didn't do their job manipulate someone else to pay for it? It's something that encourages responsibility, but I speak extremely. I am currently very pleased with the work of the office. At the last college, I praised them, which is not the usual. Last time in the Assembly, I'm here and how I had something to criticise, and what we've ambitiously imagined "the Institute" is on the verge of my capacity endurance, which is why I hire so many people, but they're domestic experts. We didn't hire for the fat money we don't have, I don't know what kind of white world and by strategies and by everything that's been brought in, but really these people are alive and healthy, they have their names, their careers that have been accomplished, and they're just honored that we can promote them into exceptional teachers. So these things change absolutely, and I think all parents will be able to notice that. One more thing, so the reform of the fifth grade is exactly what I said, the role of the Parents' Council, we take great care of the quality of the overall teaching and textbook. So when we talk about inheriting, it'll take four years. So we've tried everything to take care of it. In the lawmaking team, a lot of parents participated, a bunch of publishers, so we didn't miss anyone asking for an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30772	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago Minister Sarcevic said in an interview that he did not care to remain a minister. Since the government's reconstruction is coming up, so he doesn't care about staying a minister, it means that he has no more motivation to advance the ministry's work and that he doesn't care if these laws are better and better than we're suggesting here. Well, I suggest first that the National Assembly make a decision to return all three laws until the government is reconstructed, so that we can see who will be the new minister and whether he will stand by these laws or not. Why am I saying this? Because I'm very suspicious of the existence of these laws, especially the Law on textbooks. You know that three years ago, three years ago, at the time of Minister Verbic, a law on textbooks was passed, I will not say anything nice to Minister Verbic, after all, and I do not know him, but he has been raised by the textbook mafia. The mafia was led by Gordana Knezevic Orlic. Who is Gordana Knezevic Orlic? She is still the head of the Association of Editors of textbooks, while at the same time she is the director of the private publishing house "Klett". Klett publishing house d.o.o. What's the matter? Is it "Kle" or "Klet"? (Marco Atlagic: ‘Klett’). Here are two ts, not two es, but it doesn't matter. It's a foreign name. She attacked the law because it did not fit her company and some other private companies that publish textbooks. Of course, it also advocated the introduction of digital textbooks, of course whose use would be charged. One who would log into the Internet to use that digital textbook, he would have to pay in one of the methods of payment. She, therefore, represents the interests of her publishing house and the publishing mafia she leads. We had the best-quality textbooks when the only publisher was "The Book Publishing Institute". Then the textbooks were the cheapest. Branka Stamenkovic: And the most incomprehensible. ) It's not true, they were very understandable, I learned from these textbooks, so I'm this smart, Branka, you seem to be learning from this new study. (Branka Stamenkovic; I learned exactly from those. All right. And now, according to Branka, “comprehensible textbooks ” published by private publishers usually have large falinkies. I'm not gonna talk about those fakes. Let's see what the textbook mafia does first. Since I mastered my early childhood, I didn't even walk, I mastered the Internet, so I didn't need any textbooks, and I did a little research there and came up with exact data. All textbooks from first to eighth grade, if bought, so if their parents bought them, they would cost 50m euros for a school year. Of these 50m euros, according to the current state of the textbook market, 16m euros goes to the publishing house "Klett", "Klett", "Klett", "Klep". (Marian Risticevic: "Klep". ) Here he knows Marian, he's an expert in kleptocrat. That's 31.57% of the total value of the textbooks for one school year or in dinars you want me to tell you, that's a billion 909 million 447 thousand 538 dinars. The second place is a business, listen – a business, a publishing company “New Logos”. They are participating with 21.54%, which would be in Euros 10 million 856 000 376 euros and 58 cents. Here, these 58 cents can be like the Minister's tip, we round it up. What would you tip me for? Who am I going to do it for? You're responsible for all this. Did I? (Young Charcevic: I did not.) I can only be responsible for war crimes, for nothing else. The public company "Teacher's Office" participates only 12.94% of the total value of the textbooks sold during one year. Minister, calm down a little bit, I have a lot to tell you. Six million 519 thousand 870 euros. So Clett publishing house 15 million 912, almost 16 million. The company "Novi Logos" is nearly 11 million, and "The Bookshop" is six and a half million. The "Teacher's Office" which has the best staff, which has the greatest experience and which is all pure profit on the deduction of what is paid for the wages, his salaries have always been solid, I don't know what they are now, now you've put him at risk with this mob, protecting her interests. The Institute published a huge number of the most valuable, top-notch books in all areas of our science and culture. The work of the most private people in the Serbian people. Don't let me list Joseph Pancic, Mike Alas, Jovan Cvijic, still. Now someone else is taking this greasy profit. This is the fattest profit because it is always safe to make profits on the market, especially if you have a elaborate system of bribing teachers, which will be defined as a textbook of a specific publisher. So it comes to certain schools that one teacher from the same class determines the textbook of one publisher, the other, the third. People are handled with their own interests. The first to run into someone. Especially when a student has to change school during the school year, a whole set of textbooks can change right away. The price of textbooks is much higher now than it was before. Previously, the basic and secondary school textbook prices were the cheapest and it was still a good profit to pay off that salary, to pay the government a certain percentage in the budget, and to print works of the highest value for our science and culture. There are still very important publishers. Bigz school. Do you know who owns the Bigz now? Some Croats bought it, some Croatian firm, and they now issue textbooks for 3,923.00 euros, almost four million euros. Then, the company for publishing, production and trade in Eduk. d.o.o. They 3.268.000,00, so some "Creative Center", that Branka might know, exits Branka, 22,000, "Data status d.o.o." Just listen to the names, everything is clear to you, 2,000. The English Book, d.o.o., or "di ou ou", in order to make it sound Serbian, you can think of how many they, 1.548.000, "Gerundium d.o.o. company", Belgrade, Palilula 1,424,000. I know what a gerund is, but what a Gerundium is, could Professor Marian Risticevic help me? Gerundium, is that the kind of flowers, what is that? You see this name now "Akronolo". Go find me on Google what that means, Akronolo. They have a profit of 1.253,500. 384,000, so these are all lower amounts, that I don't go all the way. Is it a sin in front of our people, in front of our country, that these thugs make so much money by selling textbooks of dubious value to our children? What's the solution? The solution is that the publisher is again a monopolies on the textbook market, that every three or five years competitions are renewed, so if someone shows up with a better textbook, then its textbook is entered into service, all by reason, and the old one is withdrawn. Be careful, the science textbook of academics Michael Markovic was used in high schools for more than 30 years, perhaps 40 years. I used it in high school, 20 years ago, and after me, maybe even more. Better than that, it wasn't later. When a good textbook is done, then it is permanent, then it is easy to build it, to bring scientific innovations into it, etc. It's about the mob. As far as the contents of the textbooks are concerned, well, that's where the ministry especially failed the exam. I have consulted only the textbooks of history and textbooks of Serbian language and literature. Now, there learns literature and worldly, and imagine, instead of giving more attention to Russian classics, French, German, English, and even Americans already have classics of their literature. Croatian literature, Slovenian literature is being taught. Franco Preserna must be taught by our students. Who's France Preschern, do you know that? He faked himself a Lovro chef. Instead of writing some cookbook, he writes, what did he write? And now our students need to read it and learn it as a significant and valuable literary work, and it's not. Our students are forced to read "Death Smail-age Cengic", under the name of a false author named Ivan Mažuranić. Ivan Mažuranić, a witness from LJuba Nenadovic. Are those "Italian Scriptures"? Where did you read that, Natasha, so you whispered to me earlier? He writes in his memories that Njegoš complained to him while he was in Zagreb, met a Klacman, who admired his writing good songs, asked him if you had anything new to write. Naive Njegoš boasted – here, I just wrote a song about the murder of Smail-age Cengić, and this one came up – let me read it, let me read it, I'll mail it to you, I'll send it to you for sure, and he never saw it again. I've got Ivan Mažuranić's "Common Works"; I've read it. You know, I've done science on these 12 years of official travel. What are his songs? It was disgusting, like he was cutting them with an axe. Nothing can read anymore. Maybe the Croats have some historical value. He tried to be a love poet. But when you say love in the nadal language, the bad style, you say love, it feels terrible, and don't be emotional. And he included Negos' work. In the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, science proved that it was Negosev's, no doubt. After World War II, Gilas appeared and said – no, it is Ivan Mažuranić, because if we return it to Njegos, Njegos will not be any bigger than it is otherwise, and if we give it to Mažuranić, then we will have two greats, not just one. That's Gilas' words. And you allow such a textbook to be used. Let's go to the history books. Some authors of our history textbooks write about a Posavina Croatia. Medieval Croatia was only one. It spread from the river Cetina to the mountain of the Iron. It is today's Petrova Gora, because their last king, Petar Svacic, died there in the war with the Hungarians. Somewhere in 1102, Croatia became an integral part of Hungary and disappeared as a state. They inserted Croatian forgeries that Slavonic Prince Ljudevit Posavsky was actually the prince of some Posavina Croatia that never existed. Do you from the Ministry know where this Slavonic principality has spread? In the area of today's Croatian Zagorje. And that's where the Slovenes lived. It's Slavonia. When the Croats won it, I guess at the time of King Peter Kresimir the Fourth, when their country was the greatest, he was king of Dalmatia, Croatia and Slavonia. They speak a different language, a Cacao language, which is different from the Chakavian language. They are both Slovenian, but very different. And now our students, after their forgers, say it's Posavian Croatia, and when Ljudevit Posavsky was defeated in the war with the French, he defected to the Serbs. Where could he have defected to the Serbs? Right across the Sava River. He sat in Sisak, fled through the Sava Serbs, and then killed the Serbian mayor for fraud in the area where he fled and wanted to take over his ruling positions. The Serbians bitterly attack him, almost kill him, and he flees to Croatia. There, the prince of Croatia, had Born called him, Natasha, as his name was, delivered to the French. The poor Serbs, to find themselves at the service, to help save him, and these Croats are ruthlessly handing him over immediately. It's not in our history textbooks where the original Serbian state, where it was the capital. Nowhere does it say that in Shkodra there was the capital of all Serbia, run by the archon of Serbia, the Serb tribe, but set up by the Byzantine emperor and that the state covered all of Bosnia, Raska and Serbia to Morava. On the other hand, Morava at the time was Bulgaria, of course, Bulgarians who had mastered Serbian territories and a large part of the Serbian people. At one point, they mastered all of Serbia, and it didn't last long. It's nowhere to be found. Why isn't that in the history book? Will this Gordana Prince Orlic correct us? He won't. It can only correct the Department of Books in collaboration with the Academy of Sciences Department of History and correct all these shortcomings that concern our past. It was a big campaign against a history textbook, because the author wrote about commercials. More than two-thirds of today's Croats were comers, their ancestors were Orthodox, turned into Catholic faith, then roated. What are Bosnian-Herzegovic Muslims than former Serbian Orthodoxs who have moved on to Islam, etc. I have these four minutes that Branka left me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30774	It's not possible. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30775	I'll agree with the MP on a lot of things, but I'd be on my way. It's not a formulation -- I don't want to be a member of the government, and I don't know what I'm going to do, but I don't want to be blackmailed by someone with it, or interrogated as a child. That's a big difference. (Vojislav Seselj: I didn't say he didn't want to, but that he didn't care. Vojislav, I say what I mean, so believe me, what I'm telling you right now. If there's anything, choose from those two. These two things have nothing to do with each other. I didn't make up a story about the textbook market. It was passed by that law in 2015. That's when the Bureau lost all the intel he lost. The Institute had large salaries and a big margin and a big network and where it was fortunate to be organised better, to realize that there was a change in the market, which in some government at the time was done in other European countries. I can only pollute and accept whether it's better for the Bureau or for everyone else. That's what I did and that's how it is now. There's not gonna be any mention of a colleague or any of these companies mentioned writing any textbooks on their duffel. The question is the curriculum and the program. If you were just away, it is said that there is a reform of the first, fifth and first high school. For your information, this is an opportunity for the public, we have created a team of people, for the first time, who will have five people to start from the areas you said, from the Bucharests, from the educators, from historians, geographers and language professors and literature. The whole world's nation has what's called. your personal science. Under quotes of science, that's what's all yours. That's what you were talking about. That's why we haven't done it before. Go to Korea, China, anywhere, everyone thinks it's their treasure. Strangers come to that country and learn it. There's nothing to be ashamed of, that's what we do now. We made an agreement to have people from the Ministry of Promotion, Education and Education of Republika Srpska do so with us. We consider it a common good. We also do it for the sake of all Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora and so that we think and share that opinion. Who's more capable, who's got better scorers, who realizes that the game is a textbook, it's his. I can't feel his mind. In 2015, the same law passed it. We're now returning that censorship of the famous where the Institute lost and what you've listed. So we're bringing him back to life. The Bureau has to understand, ask around, I'm with Dragoljub Kojčić's great friend, what must be designed with them to be more serious on the market. Others do not bring strangers to work textbooks, but bring home teachers from Serbia. It's very important, I will agree with you, that the state is important to what it will put to study, and it is not the will of the publisher to do as he wills. He can't do that if he wants to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30777	We need to be in a situation where for all students of the fifth or first grade high school, etc., in all of Serbia, they are unique textbooks from one class. For national minorities to translate these textbooks into their language, and that they especially have their national history and culture and their literature. Everything else to be unique at Serbia's level and to keep all the textbooks in the digital variant on the Internet. One does not have to buy a single textbook if it is successfully used on the Internet and is easier to learn on the Internet and thus master objects. It's enough, then, to go to school with the tablet, it has all the textbooks in its hand. We make sure that the state returns the monopoly and returns the monopoly on the profit from this deal with the publishing of textbooks, because it's too easy profit to be given to privates. Privates, in fact, without any effort or effort, come to a great deal of money. Let them publish the bettrists. Let's let them publish poetry, so let's try to make some money. No one in poetry can make money. It can be done in fiction, if it really has quality novels or novels by authors who have become famous or translations of good foreign novels. It's hard on scientific works to earn, because the scientific works, they're only published by scientific institutions, rarely by the publisher, only if something is very specifically sought, then they get into it. As it is necessary for colleges to publish our textbooks. I just don't think in college that textbooks have to be even, there's still a slightly higher level and a scientific level of mastery of the subject. Any teacher can, if he wants, have his own textbook, but it must not be his obligation to have, because there are at least 20% of teachers, where they are fortunate, that they never tried to write a university textbook. That's not the point of this law. That's a different law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30778	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30779	Allow it, since it is a complement of what you have said, so I do to you the general public. In the last two years, we have started to rebuild school libraries in Serbia, which has not been done for 25 years. You can check that out. It's important for a certain book fund to be in school libraries. Libraries are made by people of all profiles, truth and librarians, so they're turned into random librarians, so they don't even know what they're going to issue, except what they say about numbers, they don't know how to advise. Now somewhere in the budget, we've put the money away to get professional magazines and a series of other things. So he doesn't have to. I learned from my sister's books. So I've been taught that the textbook is an auxiliary teaching tool, and from where I'm going to learn it's my will. If all schools are on the academic network, on the Internet and have access to learning and how it is a resource, it also says that there are various forms of learning, and is not only a printed form. Nobody leaves Europe for digital textbooks. It's expensive to make them, and you can't sell them expensively, and you can't have that whole digital set to satisfy your entire book. He's got to be a manual with that. This law states that the state and how it will take care of what can be an obligation, and what must not be asked of parents to raise that trade. So there are thousands of protection measures here that you've been talking about, because we know and live in the same country what can happen. Extremely high dragon measures for any kind of attempt at corruption or conflict of interest, so I think this will improve the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30780	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30781	The honourable representatives of the ministries, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens, are well known that I always lead the living and, I would say, a healthy controversy with the Minister of Education, Mr Mladen Sarcevic, and I consider him one of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who I particularly appreciate because he has his own position and is always ready to say it, very rarely we agree, but we run a quality and open controversy. I hope that's the way it's gonna be now. What is here for commendation is one detail of the law regarding the draft law on textbooks, and this is about Article 12. – use of language and letters, where it is said clearly in 1st position that the textbook, manual, additional teaching tool, didactic means and didactically playful means are issued in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. So that's what it's said to move from word to deed, not to protect Cyrillic, and we don't have a single Cyrillic protection mechanism as the main state letter in this country. So these are examples of how you can go from word to action and how you can really protect Cyrillic through one law and then we solved the question, there are no other textbooks besides the Cyrillic textbooks, of course, not counting textbooks for certain, special spheres, which for certain reasons, whether they're national minorities or any other reason, should be in any other letter. Mr. Minister, I'm also obliged to ask a series of questions that I think remain open in these legal solutions of yours. In particular, I would like to move immediately to the proposal for a law on the national framework for qualifications of the Republic of Serbia. What happened to the masters from the old school system? Are they definitely reduced to the level of masters, is that exactly the same, is there any other way to get rid of it? It's similar to fate and specialists, but you'll know better than to explain it to me. This is especially important to me for the magistrates. The second question concerns the conflict of interest just mentioned. Here, for example, the director of the Education and Educations Institute, Mr. Zlatko Gruscanovic co-authored a fifth-to-eightth-grade reader for the Serbian language of a private publisher. Now, as author of a private publisher, how can he protect the interest of the state and will he take more care of the interest of that private and other private publishers who, possibly, may appear as a publisher, but should in fact protect the interests of the state? So, a very important question. The important question is also importing textbooks, if that exists, Mr. Minister, and I ask you to explain it to me or deny me. In fact, are certain textbooks used for national minorities actually from imports? For example, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for so-called The Bosniak language? That we do not return to this dispute whether or not that language exists, whether it is a variant of the Serbian language, etc. What is important here is whether these textbooks are printed in Serbia or the textbooks from Bosnia and Herzegovina are imported and how can textbooks from another country be textbooks in our country? I repeat again, if that's true, please answer my question. The next question concerns free textbooks. Simply, it's a painful and important question, is education in Serbia free or not, how can parents afford to make all their children's equipment for school as much as necessary, is it true that a set of textbooks from fifth to eighth grade costs 18,000 dinars, and, for example, a set of low-class textbooks perhaps slightly less, orientatively about 10,000 dinars? For example, how can I, who, along with my wife, take care of five children, finance it, and count on my wife and I to be employed, so that again we have a problem, for example, to finance these, on average, what is 15 thousand average times five children, 75 grand just for textbooks? So imagine what it's like for those people who aren't employed, where one husband isn't employed or a growing number of families who, I don't know if they've noticed enough our statistical institutions, are single families, families where no member is employed, which is one brand-new phenomenon. In this regard, it is very important to see how we can further facilitate families, especially in the function of this family policy, which after six years the Serbian Progressive Party authorities finally appeared at the focus horizon of the government of Serbia and the president of Serbia. I really feel one great satisfaction after seven years of policy-making that everything Dvori has been saying since 2011 has now become a policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of Serbia. I wouldn't go back to why it took them six years to remember that the white plague was the biggest state problem ever? I really feel a great moral and political satisfaction that finally one president of the Serbian state realized that the problem of the white plague is state priority number one. That is why it is very important that what you can do in the field of education, when it comes to the cost of schooling children in Serbia, when it comes to caring for poor families and poor children, so that we don't only have to go to school rich people, is something that you should certainly take care of. I particularly liked the speech by my colleague Diana Vukomanovic and I think, as far as I'm following the assembly work in Serbia, after many years and decades, it was really an honest left-wing and socialist speech that I hadn't heard in a long time. And here we have the Socialist Party and various quasi-lewish and socialist parties that cannot mention any of the problems mentioned by Ms. Diana Vukomanovic, and above all this struggle of education with capitalism, with the status of the colonial state, which we are undoubtedly and with any struggle that you have some socialization of a society where the poor layers will be able to function normally and evenly with a wild capitalism and growing social inequalities in our society. What I want to point out here in particular is what I did on several occasions with you and personally talked to you, Mr. Minister, on various congregation occasions, which is that you must, I'm not sure if you did, here, you can deny me if you did, I'll be the first to congratulate you, if you remember, I was the first to publicly congratulate you on introducing uniforms into our school system as one important and good thing, so I don't have a problem as an opposition to this authority to praise any good thing that the Serbian Government has done, so I didn't have a problem with that, but now I'm asking you – did you finally introduce order into strategic subjects, educational objects, which must exist in schools and which can't be the subject of any market, no competition, any private publishers and so on that? So anyone can't do textbooks in Serbian, Serbian history, Serbian geography and those strategic items that the state has to define. So there's no market, there's no cheaper offer, there's no other empty story. It must be known what Serbian is, what is Serbian history, what is Serbian geography. We've already talked about it, and you promised me then to take care of it, so please explain to me if you've taken care of it in the meantime, because I'm really not a fan of foreign publishers and that kind of abandonment of our market for publishing textbooks to anyone on the side. So, the state really needs to have a monopoly on publishing textbooks because the state must or must exist and ask itself something in its own state order, or the state does not have and then they ask tycoons, various foreign monopolies, or who knows what joined political influences that want to weaken a country, and the best way to weaken a country is to destroy its education and its education system. In that sense, I would also like to ask you a few questions concerning this very Law on Educational Inspection. I know that you've had an insight into what it looks like to be the wrong inspection in a previous period when one class professors go to class of second class and really who came up with this, I don't even know how someone allowed him to be the head of a particular Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You know that I come from Chačka and that Chachak has most shown his teeth to such an educational inspection, that never such an educational inspector could enter Cachana High School and that he will not be able to enter Chachana High School if someone thus imagined that a professor of English language was controlled by a professor of physical or something like that. So there are still serious educators in this country who hold to their moral and professional dignity and who do not allow different ministers who experience education as a space for experimentation, so to speak, to humiliate this profession. In that sense, I would like to read to you, to introduce you to the Union of Educational Workers' Unions of Serbia on this very issue of the Law on Educational Inspection. Here is what the Union has been saying on this subject – the Union of Educational Workers' Union has been warning back for years about the major problem of the education inspection system. The claim was agreed by Mladen Sarcevic, and immediately after his arrival at the head of the ministry, the Law on Educational Inspection promised. On the first text that was held at the public hearing at the same time as the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System of May/June 2017, we worked in an audible manner, hoping that this area would be more orderly and evener. The law wasn't in the process then. We now have a whole new text that has the same drawbacks as before. Everything we warned about and tried to reach the ears of the promoters remained a bad solution in the text of the proposal. We're not hoping for anything except that if it's adopted, we'll get another dead letter on paper. It's the only thing that's missing in education. There are at least three reasons for that. There are no prescribed deadlines for the conduct of an educational inspector. The deadlines are drawn from other laws and are practically left to every inspector at will for how long or short he will act. Two, there's no special responsibility for an educational inspector. Here, above all, is thought of by an inspector who does not take action, does not suggest or determine the measures or actions for which he is authorised. Is it particularly necessary to point out that the law itself is pointless if one who conducts surveillance has no responsibility for non-compliance with the case? Under three, the inspector will not be responsible if he acts in different ways on the same legal matter. This leads us to claim that different or even the same inspectors in different or even different situations of the same or different cities will act differently without any responsibility. Finally, if they dealt with the law as well as the spelling of his proposal, then we're only in trouble. Anyone who graduated from elementary school knows that no point is placed behind Roman figures, but that spelling rule is not known in the Ministry of Education. Only one remains, and for the way it was written and for the draft law on educational inspection, the Union of Educational Workers' Union gives an assessment insufficient – one. So, Mr. Minister, this is the most serious union in Serbia. The Union of Educational Workers' Unions of Serbia has been defending professional and moral dignity of education in Serbia for years, from Gassa Knezevic to today. The first to stand up against the school of Gasa Knezevic's game, the first to stand up against experiments in Serbian education. Those who for years protect the union rights of educational workers, who are the most educated category of the population in Serbia with the lowest average income, are certainly representatives of the Union of Serbian Educational Workers' Union. Please pay serious attention to these suggestions. Finally, Article 6 of this Law states that an educational inspector should have at least five years of work experience in the profession. I'm asking you, if last year you introduced that the school director must have at least eight years of work in the profession, how can an educational inspector now have less employment than a director, and should control the education system? That doesn't make sense, and I think you should correct it yourself with certain amendments, so to speak, interventions. Of course, what's basically the biggest problem here, and what I'm going to end up with, and I'd say that, in part, and I'm going to continue to present my distinguished colleague Diana Vukomanovic, is, in fact, what's the point of our education system and what kind of students and students are we doing here? At the beginning of 2017, a meeting was held in Belgrade, organised by the aforementioned Union of Educational Workers' Unions, on the topic "Destruction of Education in the Age of Neoliberal Capitalism in Serbia". You, of course, Mr. Minister, come from capitalism and you may not have that kind of feeling for, say, state schooling, but what's important here is that it was then pointed out that after October 5, 2000, the Law on the Foundations of Education and Education has been changed several times, that schools are on the verge of chaos, that students are masters in class, and teachers are deprived of almost every authority. In the meantime, you deprived the authority and the National Educational Councils, and we still have 40% of our population functionally illiterate, and we still have a huge problem, and I would like to point out in particular that the average income of education employees is 48th in relation to 85 statistics. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30782	Would you like to talk about the Law of your colleague Obradovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30783	Of course, that's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30784	No, don't talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30785	Then can you tell me what to talk about?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30786	I don't determine what you're going to talk about, determines the Rules of Procedure and the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30787	Can I or can't I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30788	You can, of course. Ask for a word, but please talk about the law. If you're going to make a union commercial, I don't mind, but say you're doing it so we all know. Even those who work in education work in education to know that you represent a union here in the O.R. I don't mind, believe me, it's your right, but say it - I want that union to have the most employees in education, it's your political goal, you have the right to do it, I don't mind, but say it once already.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30789	The Honorable Chairman, I have repeatedly asked you to write me a speech and let me read it, that I don't try to speak and prepare speeches, because you know better what I have to say than I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30790	You wouldn't read it, I'm sorry. You belong to those 40% functionally illiterate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30791	Okay. I may be functionally illiterate, but what's important, I have an opinion. It's not the current government that can tell me what I'm going to say and how to say it, it's what I think I need to say. If you don't think the minister should hear that the educational structure of an educator has as much as 67.2% with higher education, then I don't know what it is that's controversial that the minister has in mind how many educated teachers, teachers and teachers, and how much they have low wages in this country. Let's go back to the specific problems they're facing. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to also confirm that the following information is correct. Since the booklets at all levels have been reduced, is it true that Serbia's high schools will no longer be studying Danilo Kish and his novel "Early Grieves"? Is it true that the songs "Suns are a woman" and "Fight on Misar", as well as the parables "A Girl Faster Than Horses" and "Golden Apple and Nine Spiders", which apply to the classics of our folk literature and represent world and European treasures, not only Serbian literary treasures? In the end, what I wanted to suggest to you, Mr. Minister, and please be very sensitive to that question. You must understand that we have an extremely negative experience of the Minister of Education from 5 October 2000 until today. So, the ministers who ran your ministry experimented with Serbian education. They made games at school, such as Gassa Knezevic, "Pepsi reform", reforming the pedagogogog and psychologists who eventually took over power, and even in your ministry, you know how they got you sexual education, and you signed it without even knowing what you were signing. So it's very important that you understand that the education system is important to be stable, not to be the subject of experimentation. When people react critically to you, they react because of the legacy of poor ministers who have experimented too much with Serbian education. So, you have to consider that our education and our country in a kind of important relationship with the EU, where we are a colonial state where we ask ourselves little, and the more Brussels determines what and how we have to do, you have to make sure that you don't let our education become colonial, too, and that you don't let it become a market-oriented system of education in which the main education will be profit and will be the primary education for cheap labour. So it is very important that you understand that Serbian education should retain the good elements of traditional Serbian education, and it is not controversial or modernising in those areas where we want to be part of the modern world. Of course, those democratic procedures of yours to ask the student parliaments about something, that's a little unserious, Mr. Minister. The student parliaments won't determine textbooks and I don't see why parents or teachers choose textbooks. I don't see why there's no order in Serbian education to know what the textbook is, that it was signed by a particular ministry and state and that textbook taught. So there's too much chaos in Serbian education, there's too much monopoly, there's too many other elements that obviously testify that it's not all under control. Let me read you a quote for the end, and in the end I'll tell you who it was and what occasion it was given. It's just rounding up what I wanted to tell you. Two quotes. First, "the local population should not get high, and even secondary education, schools can of course be left behind, but must be paid, programs made so that the student knows as little as possible." Another quote, "in Russia, only those companies whose production requires lower and middle qualification should be allowed to work, industrial enterprises that make high demands for working collectives, such as the company for the production of optics, aircraft, locomotives should be closed." To tell you the truth, the first quote is Adolf Hitler, and the second quote is the German community of work addressed to the summit of the Third Reich on November 17th, 1941. So, this motive from Nazi Germany, to destroy education in Slovenian colonies, i.e. in the territories of occupied Slovenians, and to destroy education, is obviously the idea of this new, fourth Reich and this new world order under the US and the EU, which would like us to be illiterate, who would like us to be a cheap workforce, who would like our teacher, teacher and teacher to have no authority, to ask the children and parents, that the textbooks of the real foreign publishers and that we in our own country cannot influence national and every other education and education of our future generations. I only ask that you have understanding of this position, that you are carefully implementing reforms of education in Serbia, because many education ministers have led us to experiment, school games and destroying continue to fail our education in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30792	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30793	Because of the mention of the party, of course the SNS and on the subject of different policies, different at least strange assessments about the situation in our country on various issues, where, listening in this room, we have been getting used to everything and everything, really since the beginning of this one. First on those policies and measures aimed at supporting families in Serbia. There is no secret ladies and gentlemen MPs, and the measures that should represent the extraordinary support of our families has been defined, has been presented by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. Someone may be pleased or dissatisfied with the proposal, the people of Serbia have already accepted the proposals with great enthusiasm. Someone may not understand why there's a moment for everything, among other things, because they don't understand, so I have to say basic things. The state had to develop, the state had to move forward, the state had to strengthen to get what it didn't have today. She didn't have it in the time of the system, she didn't have it at the time of all those who are very well grouped again today on the side from which we heard certain criticisms, so here's the moment, just before I took the word. So, by developing the market, by developing employment, by reducing unemployment in this country, we have come to the fact that today and debt is smaller and the country's deficit is lower, that the state today has the means to finance and support for the second child and third and fourth, to support those programmes that will allow for the housing of young couples and all other good things. These things, ladies and gentlemen, the people see very well, very well understood as good and useful. He has no right to criticize them, especially through what we heard today, some terms like a semicolonial, fourth Reich, whatever. He has no right to comment on someone who obviously doesn't understand them, who doesn't accept them as his own. We don't want to talk about Reichs, but please don't let anyone who supports organizations like the German AFD mention Reich in this room ever again. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30794	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Radovic. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30795	I was expecting more specific questions from the MPs, but I couldn't write anything but what you weren't in the O.R., you weren't following what I said. So it's your concept you've been reading that you haven't been waiting for me to say it, so you've been repeating something that I've given an answer to, and I'm going to answer you specifically one more time, if you don't mind. Third, fourth, fifth children have free children, and even who is poor and first and second. So when's everybody gonna be free? When the state is powerful. As the apostle said, when he returns economically to be strong, and that is more and more day after day. The purpose of this law is to make the textbooks cheap. The purpose of many actions that you have not followed this system law is that no one does experiments in education. What we're doing here, you can go to any civilized country and see that we only get words of praise for the speed this is happening. So, I've been working 39 years and I've been doing quality education, and I really have a chance to put a lot of things in here and, by my own good faith. On the other hand, capitalism is a social arrangement that you and I live in. I have to remind you, when Communism is back, socialism, then let me know. When we talk about unions, the chairman told you, you have no right to point out the value of one union, there are four representative only in the field of primary and secondary education. There are a few in preschool, a few in high school, you're not theirs here PR, and it doesn't matter what they think if you're politically close, and I really don't think I should listen to it. I personally have a great relationship with that union, like everyone else. I'll talk to you later, and if I'm gonna listen to everything, I guess that's my thing. When we talk about inspection specifically, if you haven't seen a solution where it says that they are now joined in the field by educational inspectors, you've heard that there are few of them, that we need to redesign them, which is again the purpose of this law, you've heard that in school administrations they sit and counsellors are enlightened. I've been through shutting down the Chacan administration, now thank God for doing good. So, counselors and redesigned school administrations, which was the first condition I said a year and a half ago, and I said the same thing about inspections, not the way someone imagines, but the way it has to be done to work. You really can't teach me that. The third resource that is united here is experts, counselors who were 200, and there will be 500 of them. It meets every principle, including objectivity. So, the goal is to introduce order in Serbian education from day to day. I know how to see it, I'm going around Serbia intensively. Somewhere near 80% of local self-government I've visited. I've entered hundreds and hundreds of institutions. I know almost all school principals personally and every day I talk to them. Training is happening intensively. So this is a pace that no one has set for themselves at this rate as we do. At least I expect someone to praise me, but I won't let him pay my respects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30796	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30797	I thank you, Chairman. Given that the SPS has been mentioned and that something that is hardly understood by the MPs today, that there are some quasi-liberal and quasi-socialist parties here, we can say that there is an authentic quasi-right party, and that is a party to which a speaker who respected what he tried to honor us belongs. What he was saying about mortgages from a previous period, we will remind him that just in the period of office when the head of the Ministry of Education was just our friend, Professor Žarko Obradović, something was introduced that Bosko Obradović could only dream of, and that is precisely that for the first time in so long, we can introduce one freely say social category, which is the introduction of free textbooks for students of the first grade of elementary school. If it's liquid, then that liquid should be pointed out as it is, effectively founded. Since Bosko Obradovic is impressed with left-wing speeches and ideas presented by MPs Dijan Vukomanovic, we have nothing against it, and his fascination in this sense really suits us, but he must know that it was precisely these left-wing ideas that Dijana Vukomanovic brought from the SPS that brought her to the other side. We don't mind it either, because we got rid of a mortgage that was obviously a big burden for the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30798	The People's MP, Bosko Obradovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30799	As for Dijana Vukomanovic, she can indeed be honored to have left the SPS that issued her leftist and socialist ideas, which is why I also pointed out her example as extremely positive, as someone who did not want to stay in a false leftist socialist party that was always there in power when social and left-wing ideas were destroyed, such as kidnapping of pensions or other similar things. As for the minister, I am glad that in his speech he admitted what I said, which is that the ministers had done bad things before him and that he had to change many things. Only those ministers were from the SNS, the SPS ranks which now make up the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Minister, when you criticize those who worked before you, you should know that they come from the same lines that support you today as a minister, so it's a little sensitive thing. You can pretend that you have nothing to do with what was wrong before you, but those who support you today have nothing to do with what was wrong before you. In that sense, I've asked you a series of very specific questions that you haven't answered, but that's quite all right, you probably have a reason for that. What's important here is, I know you're in pain by a serious union that has serious attitudes and that doesn't settle with ministers who think they can seduce the dictatorship in Serbian education. So in this sense, I support a union organisation in Serbia that is not part of the regime structures and which has its own position and opinion, not only in education, but in every other union. There are few unions in Serbia that are not part of the government, which are not controlled by the authorities and which are not on the regime's mangers. This is one of the few unions that is like this and always every union that is authentic and defending the rights of workers will have my support here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30800	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30801	On the occasion of the mention of SNS. As far as continuity is concerned, if we are talking about continuity that has ensured that those things that I was talking about earlier, which are also about improving the situation in Serbia and reducing the debt and reducing the deficits, getting everything that is still loud at the time of the Dossovo regime, as far as I can tell, we haven't, and now we have, this continuity is not controversial and implies continuity in good reforms. All of what we are going to do by adopting these laws to further improve is certainly better than at that time that some day today with a lot of grizzly looks praise and with some nostalgia they remember. I guess that's the only thing that can mean joint political action, joint photography, shared walk and so forth. On the subject of the quote, it sounded rather likable to me that we here today serve as arguments for everything being said. I think of one so very interesting and sounding, and precisely on the subject of Cyrillic protection, precisely on the subject of Serbian language protection. Is it possible that someone here, amongst those present, is a game of the case just someone who took a moment to say a word on the subject of the quote was, in time, the author of those high-ranking think that Dositej Obradović and Vuk Karadzic were the pillars of that enlightenment which today so energetically defends, as he wrote anti-hospitally at the time, that they were anti-indictive, that they were the two anti-Serbian passwords? How much does it make sense, ladies and gentlemen, that someone who wrote these things, who wrote something like that, signed his name and last name here today defends the Cyrillic, defends our education, defends the Serbian language, and I don't know what else. And what does that tell us about the author of such words? How serious is he in these things? As much as there is an opinion built and some particular attitude, so literally in everything else he mentioned today, but not just today in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30802	Right on Nedjo Jovanovic's line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30803	I thank the chairman. The Socialist Party of Serbia as it has been, and will always support what is most progressive from now on, even today when it comes to the most qualitative solutions to the laws I am discussing. Unlike those who in a highly unargumented way do so all the time wandering around in ideology. We have heard today a specific colitision from which in no way can a previous speaker come out who caused all these replicas. So it starts with some union ideology of fighting for workers, then fighting for Cyrillic, fighting for Serbia, fighting for something that I didn't understand very well, whether it's Aryan or not Aryan, I think it's best that he connects himself to himself so he can say and impute anything else. For all this time, the SPS has a clear goal and a clear path in this coalition, a clear commitment and consistency to this government of the Republic of Serbia that is doing its job in the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30804	Tell me, on what basis, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30805	How can I tell you, everyone keeps talking about me, and once I just got a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30806	And you've recognized yourself in what he said about Vuk Karadzic, okay, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30807	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let's start with this photo shoot, I've never taken a picture with war criminals Tony Blair, Bill Clinton, Gerrad Schrader as SNS president and current president of Serbia. If we're going to discuss photography better not to mention it, please. I never shook hands and painted with Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, nor supported their separatist authority in Kosovo and Metohija. So be careful when you talk about it. I've never been in power, I've never been part of a doss, and that's what your problem is with the Twors and me personally. You can easily attack the Democratic Party that was in power, but you can't prescribe to me something that was done at another time when I was critical about it. So I understand you'd all like to belong to the former regime, but I don't belong to the former regime. Many of your members belong to the former regime, so Jelena Trivan, Sinisa Mali, Goran Vesic, Nebojsa Krstic, is a former regime now in the SNS. When you're talking about the former regime, be careful because you're full of former regimes in your ranks. Of course, what's very important to my colleagues to explain what the Davers are is that we're actually right-hand values, and left-hand work. It's a modern policy that insists on values on one side, but protects unions, protects workers' rights and protects the true left on the other. And, of course, the white plague, I am proud of the fact that after six years, the SNS has taken over the programme of the Serbian Dvora Movement for family policies and decided to fight the white plague. It's proof that we're on the right track all the time and I'm proud of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30808	Just keep going that way, one, two percent that's it. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30809	There's no need for them to explain to us who he took the picture with, we saw it well. Among other things, they revealed it themselves, and they boasted. Whoever took the picture with representatives of Bulgaria's ATAKA party, who intends to say it itself, that parts of Serbia belong to the great Bulgaria. The one that's now picking up with three fingers. Go ahead, pick them up as much as you can, the more you can see them, the two of them just now. Who took a picture with Croatian defense team fans? Those who walk proudly on veteran hos parades, is it the same one that just picked up two fingers? Let him pick up as much as he can to make sure we see him better and remember him better by the people who are watching this. Here we go again. Who, ladies and gentlemen, in the words I quoted earlier, spoke about Vuk Karadzic and Dosite Obradovic and did not say well where. Well, we're talking today about some values and some strange phenomena like the Reichs, which I'm not saying he did in the authorial text in Ljotic's "New Spark". Is that something he might be ashamed of? Is it hard for him to talk about these things? When they say right-hand value, left-hand work. Let them remember a little bit that the formulation as well as everything else they have to say here, from others they heard and copied from others. In particular, six years ago, I found it in the magazine "The Seal" that they met with such a formulation, so they liked it very much, so now they'd be selling it as their own. There are no, ladies and gentlemen, no single authentic thoughts, there is not a single authentic idea, all I am is a plagiarist, even when it is known that the man who represents some here is a first-rate role model, who presents to them, as they wrote it himself, the teacher with the big in, Dimitria LJotic and plagiarized his own teaching, how we expect the student to be some human quality better than the teachers, can only repeat his mistakes. We didn't do anything about family policy and I end up, which comes down to take me as a coalition partner, I'll love you as a brother and a sister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30810	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, Bosko Obradovic said here, and thus injured the dignity that he was never a government, that he was never a member of the regime and thus severely injured the dignity of this assembly. Historically, he was always power. At his grandfather's house, orthodox communists were imprisoned by peasants when his grandfather was in power. Mr. Chairman, when his father was in power in Chačka, 60,000 buildings were illegally built, during his father's rule that intertwined with Velja Ilic, from communism, from hydrobuilding, well, in capitalism and very cruel capitalism, with 60,000 illegally built objects. Mr. Chairman, he was a member of the former regime, too. He managed to hire six family members. My sister works at a coffee shop, a manufacturing nephew in Indjia, and he employs six family members as a government, himself in a library, two women in the public sector, a brother in the public sector, a sister in the public sector, a father in the public sector. Six of them in the public sector, and he says he wasn't in power. Mr. Chairman, he was also the government because of the Colombian rule when he received 50,000 euros to print various texts, including that of Dimitri Ljotic, as he said. Mr. Chairman, he was also the authority because his youngest Tito's committee member, Ševarlic, received 65,000 euros from Dusan Petrovic for a studio that no one has seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30812	I don't think at any point I've broken the Rules of Procedure on Article 107, and as soon as we start talking about grandfathers, fathers, family, employment, I see where the session is going, so now I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30814	Just to answer the specific questions I've been asked, so I'm also asking my colleague to remind me if I forget something. When it comes to what you're talking about, the work of inspection, deadlines, responsibility and work of inspectors are prescribed by the Inspection Act of the General Type, so they're not just specialised in educational inspection. When it comes to categories within the national qualification framework, we have defined ourselves as a model of eight levels and four sublevels. In order for our citizens to be most acceptable, we could not further develop a nicer structure and go on forever. This, for example, raises the master to VII1 levels, which used to be a level recognised by basic studies, by an old four-year-old model, because they were admitted to some period that they could be recognized as a master. When it comes to the magistrate, he is VII2. There's one inter-category left here, you're right, and that's a specialist, who's recognised by VII2, although there's an emphasis that it's a specialist. Similarly it was done when the professional master studies and studies of specialist vocational studies, there is one little letter that is added to it as professional and academic, so it is thus overcome. When it comes to Danilo Kish, he will study further, no problem, of course. That would be funny to throw him out, rather than move him to senior classes. He's just too hard on the champions, to understand each other. When it comes to overall Serbian folk epic poetry, it is mild and it is the entire Corps given to the management of schools and teachers, so there are no absolute changes. When it comes to counterpart Grusanovic, yes, he was the head of the "Vuk Karadzic" school and published and published books in due time. As he was elected in the meantime as Director of the Institute for the Advancement of Education, the man will certainly not be able to continue to do so and the law itself prevents him, and I am talking about some time that has passed since that period and we cannot honor him. The man didn't know he was going to be the director later. I don't know if there was anything else. I dropped the paper. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30815	You have no right to a replica, colleague Obradovic. These are just answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30816	Here, I found the paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30817	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30818	I said about Rain, for inspection, I said, "Inspection and remains an import." I must tell you that we have made a vast majority of textbooks for minorities and for all other special groups. Meanwhile, there was a lot of things, certainly, and imports, etc. There is a memorandum that the state signs with the National Council of every national minority. The other day we had a meeting, a new annex was made and there was very little left to do only in the middle education zone and I think we've done it very well. Again, it is a relic from earlier times, and surely it is an obligation for the state to take care of it properly. Free textbooks, you heard my answer, will be one day. Of course, I told you about more kids. I strategically mentioned the group and the programmes that I said were being developed by the Law on Special Relations with Republika Srpska, but we intend to keep it in all areas where Serbian children learn. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30819	You have no right to a replica, colleague Obradovic. Mr. Secretary just answered your question. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30820	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, today I will discuss in this section the draft law on textbooks and the draft law on educational inspection. We will talk about the draft legislation on the national qualification framework through the amendments we have submitted, and in a further regular debate on the laws on electronic administration and on the national infrastructure of geospace data. It is a great pleasure to have the opportunity to hear from the minister that he has clearly and unequivocally determined himself according to earlier legal texts as an inadequately found time of opportunity and his associates have done a very good job when it comes to the Law of Inspection, the Law on textbooks only six months after the fact and the basis for the adoption of these laws was created when, among other things, we passed the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Obviously, it wasn't just declarative that it was important to bring education into the name of these laws, but education in schools should be introduced in the right way, because generations that were past really miss it. This law on the basis of a system of education and education is one of its shortcomings, although I personally do not see a way to overcome it. In fact, that law also provides for adult education, but I don't even know how to come up with the possibility of raising adults as a special methodology. I know it's from the jurisdiction of the second ministry, the Justice Department, part of that education, so in his jurisdiction are educational institutions of a closed or prison type, but maybe you should really consider working on raising those who haven't acquired it in the family, school, society, functions, prime minister functions, and today we're being taught here about education. I'd like to ask my colleagues from the opposition, which may not be so easy to agree on whether their five points of the agenda are too much or too little. If these five legislative proposals are too much to allow someone to read them in good time and prepare themselves for this session, then I might suggest that we consider discussing the laws in the future in part, member by member, each session by one member of the law. I just don't know if it would be enough for them to understand what it's all about and understand what they're discussing. Apparently, it is a small agenda for some, because the farmer was trying today to talk about a cataster that is in no way on the agenda here. Whether he is missing or subconsciously insinuated with comments that 50% of the catastra does not carry true data, when he said it here, he simply said one notorous lie. In 2007, when it received 500,000 subsidies for the vineyard planted in the autumn as if it had been planted in the spring, it was also a state land which was then run as state land and it was written that it was in the restitution, but he and his paits it did not mind to neglect and grant him an unfounded donation, and that probably from that capital and who else knows what kind of capital to acquire the immovable property that he or she did not want to book because the citation was paid by a cadastre or was afraid of tax on property or an examination of the origin of property one day, so let's say "Fit House" on Vrakar was not recorded on it, and a bunch of other immovableities. But, joke aside, this isn't a joke, this is Serbian for real. This is the kind of place they're supposed to be in a closed-type educational institution, but until they're where they belong, we're gonna have to listen to everything and everything in this room. As far as the law on educational inspection is concerned, I must really commend that this law is done on both the nomotechnical and practical sides and the functional sides extremely well. It's not loaded with anything, what the law shouldn't contain. The deadlines the colleagues here talked about without understanding maybe because it's not their profession, then it's okay, are clearly laid down by other laws that the minister has said here. None of those deadlines change. Therefore, for the application of these laws, the application of this law is all completely crystal clear and clear. The jobs of the educational inspection in Article 7 are absolutely clearly defined, their framework, the scope of the work, and I will not quote it here, because those who had time to read know what it says, those who didn't have time obviously didn't even care to read it, so I wouldn't teach them a lesson either. What is important, it is important in Article 18 simply that the system of trust in matters to the municipal and city administration when it comes to inspection supervision is also clearly defined, and that the roof treatment is united in complaints, because and where actions are entrusted, as the ultimate institution by the appeals it decides is the minister. One of the very important provisions of this law and which I think is crucial and what is distanced from all the laws that have regulated the work of educational inspection is a member of this 16th law that speaks of inspection and professional pedagogical supervision. Why? In certain situations, the work of an educational inspector on the ground is not only sufficient and it is necessary and necessary for them to work in synchronised, together and it is very good that this law and this provision of the law are sufficiently rounding up, but also does not hinder all possible necessary situations that will happen in their joint work on the ground to be restricted or blocked by legislation. I wouldn't talk about this law anymore, because I'm saying, it's clear, it's readable, it's simple, it's applicable, and it's really just someone who has evil intentions that can talk about this in another way. When we talk about the Law on textbooks, I will remind myself and it is a pleasure to remind me, I will remind myself of something that I, among other things, have commented as many fellow MPs, ordinary citizens, which is that in Serbia, at some point, we still had a situation today for children, not only to learn from textbooks of different publishers, but to learn different things, that is to say, some have been denied from learning about what other children are allowed. We are talking about the same categories, meaning not the categories of textbooks that are for adult education or for education in the classical school system, but within the school system. What's good is Articles 16, 17 and 18, which are very important to me, which talk about the preparation of textbooks, the content of the textbook's plan, and most importantly, about the quality of textbooks. This is exactly how the uniformity of the programme will be standardised by which children in Serbia will be able to learn to the extent that is important and important for all students from Saturday to Presevo who attend the same class. It is clearly defined here that standards and instructions on application bring, in fact, proposed "the Institute", and that, in the opinion of the National Council, these standards are brought by the minister and were taxed on what this is all about. This also shows us who will be responsible if in all history books for the appropriate age, students do not learn what Jasenovac is and what happened in Jasenovac. Today we have some textbooks in which there is not a single letter. This will allow all students in Serbia to find out in the same way what NATO aggression is, what it is, not that someone calls NATO action, that someone may not speak of it at all the day after tomorrow, and these are things, besides all others, which are related to the field of literature, mathematics, everything, very important, because they have to give equal opportunity with this education and acquired knowledge, that all students can compete equally for further education. For all these reasons, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the United Peasants' Party and the People's Peasants' Party will support these laws in the voting day. Before I conclude, I'd like to welcome my friends' unions, especially educations and tell them - Dear comrades, keep your pockets out of the way so you don't pass as some Serbian monasteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30821	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30822	One sentence, I think it's very important. I didn't say it today. First of all, thank you MP for reading the law in quality and for someone saying a sentence about the quality of the textbook standards, and that may be the key word in the whole story. What's very important, I don't think it begins the education of Mladen Sarčević. I certainly didn't buy the story that everything that was before me wasn't right, so now I'm here, so I'm gonna make it right. Make a man a house and see he's wrong and move the wall. I don't have that kind of problem with myself, let alone with my previous colleagues, and I know well what everyone has built into the education system and someone behind me is going to change. I sure as hell won't be vain not to notice that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30823	I thank the ministers. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30824	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like, above all, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, to commend the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and to welcome the presence of two ministers and to commend their effect. Because words -- to praise the Government of the Republic of Serbia mean nothing if it is not said that today the Assembly is discussing five new laws, four of which are completely new, and the Law on textbooks is completely new, but from a topic that was previously regulated. All of this I am saying for reasons that the entire four new laws are something that is important for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and even more important for the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These laws regulate different issues of importance for their lives, improve the quality of life with many solutions and, of course, when it comes to educational laws, improve the education system of the Republic of Serbia. So let me first of all say a few words about the laws in the field of education, and then I would concentrate on these other two laws, on the electronic administration and the national infrastructure of geospace data. When it comes to education laws, the minister is absolutely right when he says the National Qualifications Framework law is almost a decade late. That's right, he should have been brought long ago. By 2010, within the National Council for Higher Education there was, as I say, a different interpretation of whether it was part of their obligation, even if a national qualification framework was to be done which would serve as the basis for some solutions. They didn't do that job till the end. The Higher Education Act was amended in 2010, but not after that, when it was found to be a clear and explicit obligation of the National Council for Higher Education, work was not done. I must commend Minister Sarcevic for having managed to prepare this law and what we are discussing today, because I think it is very important, this law is something that regulates the issue of qualifications at the level of the Republic of Serbia, but it is also a good link with the European Qualifications Framework and at international conferences where the education system of the Republic of Serbia is promoted and assessed, of course, and the question of the qualification framework is one of the issues discussed. It is good that the law has so detailedly addressed all issues related to the qualifications framework of the Republic of Serbia, because all education that is being achieved in the Republic of Serbia, both formally and informally, as well as what is achieved through the process of recognising previous diplomas, is part of qualifications. The law has divided qualifications into eight levels and four sub-levels. There are four types of qualifications: general, professional, academic and professional. This, of course, is because the debate on these laws so far has rarely heard anything about the content of the law that we are discussing today. I think it is very important that the resolution ministry has very precisely identified the bodies responsible for the development and application of the national qualification framework and the composition of the council. We have seen that it covers a very wide range of people, i.e. bodies that are responsible for the field of education. I've seen one interesting thing, that council members work without financial compensation, which also shows one, to say, the Ministry's commitment to include as many entities as possible to improve the education system with their abilities. The formation of the agency not only provides professional assistance, but also has an obligation to ensure quality. The formation of sectoral councils is also important. Why sector councils? Because life will bring about new changes, and some qualifications will be abolished, some new ones will appear. And again, I have seen, the legislation provides for the existence of a national coordination point such as that binding tissue with the European Qualifications Framework, all of which says that our education system of the Republic of Serbia and by this body is part of the European area of education or European space of higher education, which is very important, because education is an extremely important resource for Serbia's future development. I don't think there's any need to use any negative qualifications when talking about education, as I say, because education is good for all of us. We are all concerned or interested in the future of the Republic of Serbia. Education can do a lot for the future development of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a resource that objectively does not see borders at the moment. I think it's very important that the law explained the work of ENIK/NARIK in detail. Recognition of foreign diplomas and foreign school papers is also very important. I've seen, in several members, it's very detailedly regulated. One member of the law that is not mentioned is a member of the law relating to obtaining the status of a publicly recognised organiser of adult education activities, which is very important, given the educational structure of the population of Serbia and the fact that lifelong learning is not only understood, but should be an integral part of our education system. In one word, when it comes to this law, I think the Ministry has done well that this law is finally the subject of debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that we will adopt it, and then we will see its application. I expect positive effects. When it comes to the law on textbooks, I think it's a good thing the government is passing this law. Today, the minister has repeatedly taxed all the positive things that this law makes with its solutions. I will, without the whole of the law, explain more members now, mention, to me, the most important members. For me, the most important thing that will be arranged here is that the system is now covered, i.e. the issue of the issue of publishing low-level textbooks is finally solved by this law. I sincerely hope, Mr. Minister, that this question will no longer be asked, because in 2009, when I first proposed the Law on textbooks, we had some bills as a means of security, paying off certain funds. That didn't give the results, here, you see, and this 2015 law didn't. Now it is very taxingly determined if the publisher does not take the obligation to print a low-cost textbook, then that job must be done by the Centre for Low-Level textbooks within the Bureau. It's something that, let's say, wins for everyone, especially students, because low-level textbooks tang a large number of students. Few people know that 75% of schools, secondary vocational schools, three-year, four-year-olds, have a large number of courses that use low-level textbooks. In the light of the bill's proposal, I've seen a number of over a thousand items mentioned. When you take that number and multiply by the number of students and the fact that 75% of schools are in the structure of secondary schools, secondary vocational schools, then you can only see how big a step is taken with this solution and that we are finally going to solve this issue of low-priced textbooks. I think that's one great thing. Another great thing is that we are finally solving the issue of publishing textbooks in minority languages. It will cease to be an international problem, because it is no longer our internal problem. I must say that I absolutely welcome what the Ministry has done, because we have witnessed in some previous years that certain minorities use this issue, if you will, and against the state they live in. If you remember, in 2012, the issue of minority textbooks was also used as a reason for Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status. Now bilateral relations also mention whether a minority has or does not have textbooks in its language. Otherwise, it is little known that eight minority languages are represented in the education system of the Republic of Serbia. We are one of the few countries in Europe, if not the only country in Europe where so many minority languages are used in the education system, which speaks of the wealth Serbia has, but also about the country's definition that every student of minorities for whom there are legal conditions provides education in that language. Among the low-level textbooks, it is also important to mention textbooks for viewing subjects, viewing programs and for obtaining education by special programmes – abroad education, program for talented students. By these solutions, publishers participate with 2% of the net revenues achieved from sold textbooks in the previous year and, of course, only the obligation to allocate funds does not have the publisher who prints and low-cost textbooks. The second solution I would like to praise is that the government has found a legal framework for free textbooks. That legal framework is very important. I am fully convinced, as the minister said, that if the government only improves economic opportunities, as its strategic goal, all students in the Republic of Serbia will one day receive free textbooks. Who wouldn't want to provide their children with free textbooks in the education system of the Republic of Serbia? I must say, Mr. Minister, since I promoted this project in 2009, that by passing the Law on textbooks, that we, and I as a minister, were carrying all the burdens of both good and bad, as you say, because we found a chaotic state. The law only regulated the issue of the state publisher, the 1993 law, and one provision of the 2003 Law on the founding of the education and education system regulated the issue of the participation of other publishers. Then a solution should be found to put both the private and state publishers at the same level, but also to respond to this problem that was being talked about by colleagues Seselj, which is the interest of individual publishers. I shouldn't be here to say, too smart. The publisher's interest is beyond the interest of education and the quality of textbooks and making money, and that's a legitimate right. The interest of the minister, the state's interest is to create a system where the publishing of textbooks will be transparent, where everyone will be able to participate and where the best-quality textbooks will be able to be printed on the basis of plans and programmes. It is mentioned constantly the figure of 78, 79 publishers, which is essentially not true because this refers to a smaller number of publishers, 78, 79 publishers are different categories of publishers within this big job. We, of course, had a variant that textbooks used for three years. I think this is a good thing that textbooks are now provided for four years and that for children or for the future, if it is, of course, money will be an ideal solution – free textbooks and four years to last, of course with the exception of that part when new curricula and programs are introduced, so when it has to change every year, but then it won't be good for publishers. Because then he loses three years of income, compared to the circulation of textbooks placed on the textbook market and, of course, the profits expected. I have to tell you that I was the one who introduced the teaching council's obligation to determine the textbook by subject, because until then it was chaotic from first to fourth grade, believe it or not. We had a situation for the teacher to choose one textbook of a particular publisher and select that textbook by rule or Serbian or mathematics was the choice of the whole set, let me say. Then, regardless of the quality of the textbooks for the subject of Serbian language or musical or visual, believe it or not, for the first grade of elementary school and for these two subjects there is a textbook. So, for many people who deal with the question of textbooks, it was purely commercial work. I think the fact that a teacher's council chooses the best textbook is something that's perfectly normal in one school. Let the teachers agree with each other, let them assess, let them evaluate and let the highest quality textbook be the subject of learning. If that solution does not show good, then, of course, the teacher council should make a decision on the second textbook. I think it's a good thing, the minister noticed it, which removes that threshold of 5% of selected textbooks at school level as a condition for some textbook to be included in the textbook catalogue, because then it gives the opportunity, to say, to smaller publishers to participate in the process of publishing textbooks. I think that's a good thing. Let the market show who's better. The ministry must prescribe all elements related to the issue of a quality textbook. What is important and what needs to be mentioned, I think it is good to introduce digital textbooks, manuals and other teaching tools with modern teaching content. I think it's a very good thing for the whole education system. When it comes to the third law in the field of education, on educational inspection, they also praise the adoption of the law. Somewhere in 2013, while I was running the system, we started preparing this bill, but we couldn't get it through. I think the law is very important even though the number of members is very modest, but it is important because the educational inspection will help make the education system more efficient. Simply, the educational inspection has its very important place. Here, I say, connects the work of an educational inspection at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia. How important the work of an educational inspection may be best seen from the explanation of the proposal for this law. It seems to me that the Educational Inspection Plan for 2017 was 2,500 supervisions, and that it was done three times as much as it says, Mr. Minister, in order to be good, here, since that... I know that's what you want, but when you're looking for it, you might think you're selfish, so here, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I'm going to ask the government to increase the number of educational inspectors to make the education system of the Republic of Serbia more efficient, quality, one word better than all those obligations, the jobs that the educational inspection has under this law. I looked very closely at the explanation, the most surveillance is carried out in primary and secondary schools 3.116, i.e. primary schools, and in secondary schools 1,846, in higher education 71, which, of course, does not mean that all of these problems are solved. The greater presence of educational inspectors on the ground is something that helps the efficiency of the ministry's work and improves the education system. It improves the education system, because when you have 900 thousand students plus students, 250 thousand, when there are 1,800 and something schools, then it's not possible to do all that, nor can it be taken into account to the fullest extent of all the elements. In the end, a few words. I'd like to say something, personally, which is about the future of an educated system. What's waiting for us all and that's where we have to make... There is one thing that many colleagues, who participated in the debate on education, cannot understand. Education is one system and it's one process. It requires continuous innovation, constant changes, constant assessments and, of course, continuous innovation. So, somewhere in the future, sooner or later, but you've started well, we have to make changes in curricula and programs, new textbooks with new teaching content, probably to make a change in the number of subjects compared to the 21st century or by the end of the second decade of the 21st century, an increase in the number of digital textbooks, but also not to forget our own language, or our own letter, or to forget all those things that are related to our identity, increase in quality, increase in child coverage, I've already said this, about textbooks. I know it's the dream of all single-minded work, but single-minded work takes a lot of, a lot of investment. At this point we are not able to, at least not to that extent, and one important thing is competent teachers. These are just some of the elements that are important for the future of education. Mr. Sarčević, let me now say a few words about this business done by Mr. Ruzic, because I think the Law on Electronic Administration is very important, it is important for the entire system of state administration. Simply, the need for the digitisation of the state administration, as a strategic goal of the government's work, was also pointed out by the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, last year during the inauguration. The electronic administration promotes the quality of public administration work, its efficiency, its economics. Citizens are satisfied with the use of electronic administrations, as citizens' services, are being saved through the elimination of parallel processes, the time of processing is shortened, the state's services to citizens and businesses are increasing. I think that today Mr. Ružić very detailed all those elements related to the Law on Electronic Administration and showed practical examples of what the application of this law means and what digital administration means, because it simply helps citizens in all areas of life. I'd like to mention a few more things that this ministry is doing, because I think that editing the local self-government system and improving the work of the state administration is very important for the functioning of the state. Rarely, citizens make the difference between local self-government and state administration, but it is important that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government established the National Academy, because if we want to transform public administration and provide officials who will be more efficient, more polite, better directed, then it is quite logical that the National Academy be the institution that will improve their knowledge. For the first time, training will be provided for all officials and the Academy will be open to all citizens and citizens who do not work in the administration, and they want to learn more about the work of the public administration. The work capacity of the National Academy shows that it will be able to include more people. In addition, the ministry has passed four new laws. I am very aware of this because the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is not normally seen, and this should be mentioned, because local self-government is the most important level that defines the quality of life of citizens to the greatest extent and at which citizens gain their position on the functioning of the state. A fund has been established for units of local self-government that has been increased to as much as 320 million, 170 projects have been reported, and will be selected by the best. The budget fund for national minorities has increased 12 times more than it was in years ago. In one word, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government within their responsibilities does much to improve the system of local self-government and improve the quality of life of citizens. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would once again like to say on behalf of the SPS that we will support all these laws, because we think they are quality and improve the quality of life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30825	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30826	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS parliamentary group supports the proposed laws and we consider them to be a good continuity of those efforts aimed at building a modern and successful state of our joint house, from our Serbia, those efforts that have already produced significant results and when listening to what could have been heard on the subject of different objections or criticism by those who have already been declared and declared as opponents of the proposed solutions in principle, and in fact there is absolutely no single word of objection to the content of the proposed laws. There is something else, but when you look at the proposed solutions, the contents of the bill and what has been exchanged today, nothing here will affect the content in the sense that it suggests something different or that at least it indicates why what is proposed is not good, and it can't be when you look at the proposals clearly and why. When you look at the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia who might well be opposed to adopting this national qualification framework that everyone has declared to be long waiting and that it is only good because it represents an institutional framework for this issue. Who can have something against the concept of lifelong learning? Who can have something against the concept of greater labour market mobility? No one can, so no one looks for it and doesn't. The second law concerns textbooks. Who can object to the suggestion that we fix this problem by allowing the digitization of textbooks, digitizing content? There's no one against it, nor could it. Who can object to the proposal that the question of those textbooks that are considered low-cost, which are meant for those groups that do not have many, whose members do not have many, such as different national communities or, say, members of those groups who are considered at risk that the question of textbooks for that population is regulated in a systematic, good, quality way? No one here can have a single grudge, so it seems that's why today isn't. Proposal for a law on educational inspection. We don't hear and it doesn't make sense to hear anything against the idea that one way to settle the issue of those matters concerning education inspections that exist at different levels and are regulated by different laws, so that they can be arranged systematically and in one place. The draft eGovernment law, in which we have already achieved a lot of good results and which we also want to unify, to introduce a system that will enable everything that has been well realised at different levels so far, and which is sometimes not formed so that each other supports, each other's protocol, format and availability, to make it possible. There's absolutely nothing controversial about it. There's absolutely nothing that could bother anyone, and that's why we don't hear any argument going that way. After all, a syasset is an example of how good it is for the citizens, for the citizens useful, and only in terms of the savings that the present ministers were talking about, or at the level of those very examples of savings, which are very much in these materials that we have received as MPs in the context of the proposal. Nothing is absolutely controversial, bad, or problematic. The draft law on national geospace data infrastructure, which should once again enable us to edit an important area in a modern way and, yes, it has good positive implications, which have been mentioned today, such as: the possibility to present to citizens and businesses potential investors certain information quickly, efficiently and quality. As something that potentially only improves Serbia's rating and on that famous Duing business list that we talked about today, as something that only potentially improves the climate, parameters such as certainty and business and communication. Isn't that something you can just say hello to, something you can only be satisfied with nod and say – it's good, we need it. What connects these laws, ladies and gentlemen, since it sounded like some kind of authority delivered, let's call it, with a grudge on the subject of the proposed agenda and these solutions that I'm talking about? Does that have anything to do with it? There's a way. So modernising and forming those solutions that are currently using our citizens unbreakably connects the proposed laws. It is true, there are some things that concern our obligations that will allow certain funds to be used for budget support and it is true that this has to do with the European path of Serbia. But this is a good place to open the parentheses again and say again loudly what we have already said in this room on many occasions. These integrations, ladies and gentlemen, first of all concern what interests us as people who care about the system of this country, as something directly related to our people, our citizens, as anyone who prefers to say, which is their interest. We do not need from any country of the world but Serbia, we need neither for the sake of the EU nor for any other community a good and quality solution, it is because of our citizens. Our citizens are interested in having a high-quality textbook issue. Our citizens are interested in having modern, modern systems that will make life easier for them, which will reduce their costs. Our citizens are interested in taking care of how the institutions in this country function. Our citizens are interested in us being a successful society. All this directly concerns what is the interest of this country and the interest of this people. When you look at what the grudges are said, the objections and so on, were we in a position or were we not able to hear what the proposed solutions meant by the waist? Each law goes with the following material and reasoning. I seem to have found in every single piece of information that says that there were discussions and who participated and what he suggested on that occasion, what he said, what he put out as a grudge, what was respected, what was not appreciated. Five laws and each one of them has a share of that kind, so that we may see what is in them. So, there was an opportunity. Further, on the subject of a foolish remark – how much time is devoted to, so what does it say on whether something is good or not? Someone said how much time we've spent preparing for this debate, preparing for amendments and their presentations, then saying whether something's wrong or wrong. That same logic to apply, I can conclude the following – when those who have declared themselves against these laws, and more than half of their discussions are held in the story of the SNS parliamentary group and our amendments, when those who are more than half of the discussion is dedicated to the subject of whether or not a lesson in history or in Serbian language and literature could have been written differently, it tells me that with these laws everything is in perfect order, that there is absolutely nothing to be resented, that there is absolutely nothing to be said as an observation. When we use terms like a farce with amendments, I have great news for the MPs. I've looked closely at the proposed amendments and there's not one that suggests anything like Santa Claus or anything like that. So, the farce of that kind of thing, we've run out of luck this time. Thank you to those who care about this problem for taking care of it and sharing it with us. However, there are again those involved in some free textbooks and other free ones. So it seems to me, at least four parliamentary groups simply wrestling with each other in a campaign for the previous Belgrade elections on the subject of who first remembered free textbooks and everything else for free seem to have learned nothing from it. They didn't learn anything from that because the result that came after that and the debate and these and such ideas were supposed to tell them something, and they're dealing with it again. It should be their subject again, but the fact that we have heard today that even some tweet has become viral enough to speak about what it has to be resented, or not to resent the content. The policy that suggests such solutions, ladies and gentlemen, have asked some of what it is, is there, can it be described? Of course it can and is a policy that primarily concerns these efforts leading Serbia towards achieving some status of well-organised society, a modern country. In the meantime, we have already achieved a lot on that path, but also a constant continuous effort to always move the scale a little bit more, to always move our goal a little bit further, to set new tasks and to work even harder and to achieve even better results. What policy is definitely not and what is? Definitely, it is not, at all, related to phenomenal ideas such as tear gas disposal in the Assembly, the summoning of the Romanian script and some vague reminders of the fate of Ceausescu, the brutal insult of the president of the state or ministers, with it absolutely nothing to do with our policy. Not with the idea of eradicating and banning political parties, or of eradicating and banning the media, which one considers himself hostile. It has nothing to do with brutal mockery, taking a shit over a situation like the one we had yesterday, that brutal rough force, a disgusting force, an inhuman force is mutilating against Mark Djuric. That he's excavating himself over someone who represents this country. It has nothing to do with our policy with such an approach that simply enjoys the situation when they are, so someone's heads are at stake. And why am I bringing this up? Because these are all issues concerning Serbia these days, so unfortunately they found their place in this session that has recently begun. Those who deal with such ideas and such topics in the way I have just said, they seem deeply stared at their party flags, which, after the last elections, seem to have definitely been brought down to half the spear, increasingly and less rarely look at those states. More and less rare, so rare that sometimes a simple man wonders if he even sees them? So, with our politics, everything has nothing to do with it. It's all the opposite. And what it is is a policy regarding modernisation, so it's a policy of development. It's a policy of results and when we say the development of results, yes, we're thinking of 170 thousand new jobs secured in this country, just in the last few years. Yeah, we're thinking more than 60 new factories and production plants. The results were discussed today, and when the subject was taken care of, wages were also discussed. That's the policy of ladies and gentlemen who, here's the news of yesterday or yesterday, made the official data matter, the average salary in our country in January is 50,000, 48 dinars, and that's real, 1.9% more than in the previous month, to be realistic 5.2% more than in January of the previous year. It's a policy that people who do it and who understand it well. It leads to, of course, preserving the trend of growth that we currently have, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia from 497 euros to the end of the year, provided that the stability of the course that is already extraordinary is maintained, when the whole period from 2012 to today is looked at. It's all about just as much as these things have been worried about here today. Here's some good news for them, if they're still able to be happy about good results in their own country, here's a good reason to do it. This policy of results and this development policy, of course, concerns the establishment of an appropriate place for the Republic of Serbia on an international basis, as well as the formation of proper respect for our country. It is also about keeping the dignity of our people at every opportunity, even when it is marked on March 24th and what happened in 1999, that policy has no problem saying that things call for the right name, to condemn aggression, to condemn the inhumane treatment of our people. This policy has no problem protecting our people's KIM members who are at risk. That policy, ladies and gentlemen, has also provided that 50-seat progress on the Duing Business List, which you spoke of today. This policy has provided the means for today's state to be able to help both when a child is born and when another child is born and third, fourthly and that free textbooks really exist, but no longer at the level of some stories and fantasies, but where they are needed, for example. in socially endangered families, that they exist today as realities, and in families that have third and every next child. To be something that's a real thing, which isn't just a story for an amendment and an extra two minutes for someone else's, anyone's. This policy, ladies and gentlemen, is a policy defined by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, is a policy represented by the SNS and implemented by governments in this country. This policy, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the results, has the support of the citizens of Serbia, and it understands well to achieve great things, such as the modernisation of society, such as the reform of society, such as the change of mentality, because it implies that you have to work hard on them, to be modest and committed. This policy, which represents great ventures, such as European integration, and the protection of our interests at this difficult time, she knows that these things are not possible unless there is political unity. This political unity in the country, another novelty for those who seem to be still unclear, we have achieved. Without their help, or despite their desire to be gone. It is seen through support for the 78% KIM policy and beat Aleksandar Vukic in the first round of presidential elections with 56% and an absolute majority in the number of mandates in Belgrade, as well as this 67% score in Smederjevska Palanca, just the other day. Serbia's citizens understand this policy well. She secured state unity, she secured the council. She, as she is, provides the results. This policy, and I will end with the words of the present minister – we, ladies and gentlemen, will be confident, representing from the heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-27-0.u30827	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Since no one calls from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, this ends today's work. We continue work tomorrow, on Wednesday 28 March 2018, starting at 10.00 p.m., switching to the speaker list. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 18.05.]]
