ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42422	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 100 MPs present in the hall, i.e. we have conditions for further work of the National Assembly. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON HUMAN CELLS AND TKIVAS pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that during the hearing in particular on this item of the agenda, they are invited to attend: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Đukić, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, Prof. Dr. Ferenc Vicko and Dr. Meho Mahmutović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Dragan Vujic, Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, Director of Biomedicine Management, Dr. Jelena Janković, Adviser at the Ministry of Health and Dr. Aleksandra Vlačić and Zlata Žizić, advisers at the Ministry of Health. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42423	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, in accordance with the amendment I submitted to Article 1, where I suggested adding a word to the highest level, when it was meant to be safe for the quality and safety of the human cell area, it was absolutely logical to propose such an amendment, in order to bring it into line with the subsequent legal trail of these members, and it reads that in Article 3. The bill, in paragraph 1 behind point 18, adds a new point, which reads: “The highest level of security implies a set of procedures and procedures in the application of this law that prevents any kind of abuse. ” Points 18), 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27) become points 19 to 28, not to be counted separately. They are clearly defined in this amendment. In fact, I said that it was really my impression that the bill reached the maximum level that the law can ensure in the security of the implementation of the procedures it defines, but, as I said in the reasons for Article 1, I will repeat and now in this explanation, I believe that such a provision would be binding for some future times, as well as for situations where sublegal acts will be adopted that will follow these legal texts, and not only them but also new laws which in perspective can be given as something that will be necessary in order to extend the good intentions and good realization of all these procedures when it comes to stem cells, human cells and tissues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42424	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Philip Stojanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42425	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, when considering these laws relating to the area of health, we must be aware of our health situation. The situation is that Serbia's health care is systematically destroyed. It destroys, first of all, its human potential. Medicine is a specific area in which healthcare professionals must perfect themselves their entire lives. If we know that, after the completion of the medical school, the first thing that follows is the internship, then the specialization, then the subspecialization and other types of training, the complete medical expert becomes only somewhere in the 40s. In some other activities, an expert with 40 years behind him has a great work experience and, above all, a professional experience. Medicine is an activity where knowledge is acquired by transmission. We have a situation where young doctors are having a hard time getting specialization, and there is an increasing gap between young and experienced doctors. When an experienced doctor retires, his place, as a rule, is not filled, but remains vacant. Well, then who's going to pass on the necessary knowledge to young experts? Then we are surprised that young doctors are going to Germany and other EU countries. With this kind of human resources policy, our health care is waiting for the black days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42426	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic jointly submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Blaža Knezevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Blaža Knezevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42427	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health since coming to the Serbian Progressive Party's power has made huge efforts to fully destroy the health system in Serbia and make it what it is today. Today, the Ministry of Health, headed by Minister Zlatibor Loncar, is building and restoring clinical centres in Serbia, is building and investing as never in hospitals and homes of health. Over the past four years, more than in the past few decades have been invested, leading the Serbian health system to step up from the most developed European countries. Of course it wasn't easy. After October 5th, Serbia's economy, Serbia's Army, and the idiotic issue of Vuk Jeremic, assisted by Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas, brought KIM to the International Court of Justice in the position it is now in. In this desolation, the state did not bypass health care either. In the case of Capca, you can best see some of the things they did during that period. The Sabačka hospital was scheduled to receive an angio-sala, but Dusan Petrovic and the hospital's director at the time said they did not need it to explain that it is not far from Belgrade. The old surgery building, since 2006, has been completely empty, and the site's recovery project has been blocked by local self-government. The most expensive example in Sapac is the sale of the Zorka Farm factory, when Sabac was due to receive a diagnostic centre, under the contract worth 2m euros. Nor has Sabac received 2m euros, nor has the building of a diagnostic centre ever been built. The chaplains no longer ask the question of money, the chaps ask the question – how many diseases would be diagnosed in time and how many human lives would be saved if they hadn't stolen it since the Chapcans in 2003? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42428	Thank you, my fellow Prince. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42429	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, there's a saying, and maybe it's mine, too. Life is a line between two numerical numbers. So when you go to the cemetery, then you see how passing we are, then you see that life is really just that cartoon between two numbers. It's up to us to keep this line as long as possible, to take as long as possible, and to be as good as possible. We all want to live as long as possible, but rarely anyone wants to be old and sick. Dostoevsky said that when wealth is lost nothing is lost, but when health is lost then everything is lost. These laws can be fixed and this law can fix lost health, that it takes as long as possible and that it can be as high-quality as possible. It's up to us to change regulations, to make regulations as we've done before. Health results are immeasurable when we take the condition. When we consider that the Duke's Clinical Center is without a procurement plan, without a financial plan, so-called. Public procurement against the law for two billion and that no one ever answered for it, and that one of the directors of the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina was Pajtic's wife, as I recall, then we see what the difference between us and them is, and that difference should be good for our benefit. People spend their health to gain wealth, and then the wealth should be spent to preserve health, such relationships in the world, restore health, such relationships in the world, and we must not cough for the world. Therefore, apart from this amendment, I ask that fellow MPs vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42430	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The People's MP, Dr Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42431	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable ministers, with their associates, colleagues and colleagues, through Article 3 or points 1 to 27, have defined the terms to be applied in this law, which I have submitted to Amendment 3. The humanity of people in Serbia and our mentality would also have to ensure success in the field of organ and tissue donation. In this, first of all, I stress, human work should aim at finding together a formula that will allow Serbia from the bottom of the organ donation scale to come to the top. In order to regulate the area of human cells and tissues, as well as the organisation of health institutions for the performance of this activity, it is necessary, first of all, to clearly define what is meant by the exercise of the mentioned activity, who can carry out this activity, how it is carried out, what conditions need to be met by health institutions, and of course who and how it controls the implementation of this law. I can definitely say that the application of this law enables priority interests to be respected for the preservation of life and health, as well as the protection of fundamental human rights and the dignity of the donor and the recipient of human organs. The goal of our President and this Government, or the Ministry of Health, is to take large steps forward, to be equally good in all areas, and especially in health care, and that in the 21st century, organ and tissue donation is not a sensation, but a normal and generally acceptable thing. Each of us decides whether to be a donor, but you never know if we're gonna be a recipient. Even though we think that we're going to help someone before, life sometimes disproves us. Life teaches us that each one of us before is a potential recipient, rather than a donor. Finally, in addition to the individual terms defined in Articles 3 to 27, I believe that the law should further define that the humanist character of this law further encourages the development of health care in the Republic of Serbia, so I proposed that the amendment be mentioned in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42432	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42433	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, we also make a significant contribution to the higher level of security from the microbiological point of view. In the case of eye tissue storage until now, only 12 to 24 hours have been possible, which means that all procedures on this part have been urgent and require emergency preparations that carry certain risks. With the new way of keeping the tissue, as provided for by this law, that time has been moved to two weeks, which means much more quality preparation and higher quality service delivery. This is just one example of the improvement of this law. On attacks that, following this law, someone will intercept people on the street, extract their organs, on charges that this Assembly is the "yellow house" and similar most monstrous accusations, one of the best responders was given yesterday, when you and the president of Serbia visited works at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, first after 60 years, serious works, where eight and a half million euros have been made so far, and 69m euros are planned to be invested. The centre for the H knife where a single operation has cost us 20,000 euros so far, and that is for those who ask what are the economic effects of our approach to health at all. In future, we will only have answers to such monstrous responses in new projects, in work, in health development, in Serbia's development, because we will not and do not want to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42434	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42435	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this government and most of them are making great efforts to modernise Serbia and create the best conditions for our citizens' lives. It is done much in the field of infrastructure, defence systems, to create conditions to attract foreign and domestic investors to new jobs and remain our young people in Serbia. What is particularly important, when it comes to this bill from the domain of health, is that a good legal solution, through continued investment in health care, will ensure conditions for medical professionals to remain in our country and treat our people. We had a chance to hear yesterday from the president of the state that, after a long number of years, a reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia is going on. Also, the Center for the H knife is being built that allows for more precise tumour radiation, with the protection of healthy tissue, increasing radiation efficiency, and the number of hospital days decreases by five or six times. The value of this investment is 800 million dinars and, after the end, our citizens will be able to be successfully and treated free of charge in our country, not abroad. By passing this law, all those on the transplant waiting lists will be treated more quickly and efficiently. The application of the law will have an impact on the excellent promotion of giving and on the complete equipping of those health centres that will deal with transplants. I think this attitude towards health care is a great way to keep our medical professionals here and our citizens getting the best possible health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42436	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Olivera Ognjanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42437	I thank the chairman. In all towns and cities of Serbia, a number of human health concerns are constantly being carried out, developing a sense of solidarity with other people, and the most representative actions of voluntary giving are guilty because they are actions deeply embedded in the minds of Serbian citizens as an act of humanity. As one of the very important ones of the national campaign - the most important call in life that she has made, and will continue to be held by the Hemofarm Foundation as a partner of the Ministry of Health, which aims to raise people's awareness of the donorship and to create a positive picture in the public of this very important act. As campaign promoters, it is precisely people who live in the expectation of donors, because it is the only way for citizens to understand that they are more likely to need an organ than to give it themselves. One donor can save up to four lives, and more than 2,000 patients are on waiting lists for organ transplants in Serbia. Modernisation and equipment of the transplant centres, as well as other health centres in Serbia, the employment of top doctors, the security of modern moderation, treatment and therapy are the goals that our government achieves and therefore I congratulate the ministers on the results achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42438	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the people sent by Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? Jelena Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42439	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, the amendment I have submitted implies improving health centre conditions, allowing for the development of health services for the benefit of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In previous years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown genuine commitment to modernising and strengthening the health sector, and in particular investments in the reconstruction and construction of hospitals, homes of health and clinics have enabled citizens to improve their treatment conditions. I would take advantage of the opportunity and highlight the tireless involvement of Belgrade's municipalities in the construction and restoration of hospitals and health homes. The expanded capacities, modern equipment and the increase of medical staff were also enjoyed by residents of the city municipality of Palilula, which is working hard and hard to reconstruct hospitals in Kotež and Višnja Banja. Doubled capacities in Kotež, new equipment and extended services for children and adults, enabled residents of this village to provide quality healthcare, while all of them on the left bank of the Danube are awaiting construction of the most modern health home in Belgrade, Borca. As for investments in major infrastructure projects in the area of health, the government of the Republic of Serbia opened a new facility at the Nis Clinical Centre at the end of last year, worth 38m euros and represents the second largest health centre in Serbia immediately after the Clinical Centre of Serbia. Areas of 50,000 squares and 1.525 hospital beds The Clinical Centre Nis is one of the most modern health centres in Southeast Europe. We are also expecting the realization of large projects, such as the construction of the "Tirshove 2" worth 54m euros. I would also remind all those present of the acquisition of accelerators, gamma knives, the equipment of angeosals, making it possible for Serbia to treat its citizens in a more modern manner with modern technology. In the past few years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested a great deal in health care, so I hope this will be a great opportunity for young, successful doctors to remain and allow them to contribute to the creation of better living conditions in our country by their knowledge and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42440	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the People's sent Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you know that in the Republic of Serbia we have an institution called the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, but it is no longer an independent and independent state body. He is a political figure, advertised less, more on all the laws that are in the Assembly and most of all negatively distorting, falsifying what is happening in the National Assembly, so allow when he is already a politician to warn you what that politician is doing, but for state money, or for the money of Serbian citizens. Mr Sabic said on June 25th 2018 that, as an independent and independent state body, he does not have a legal obligation to call entry competitions in his service, which he did not otherwise. However, in the bodies of the State Administration and the Government's services, Art. Items 1 and 54 are replaced by the following: The law on civil servants is prescribed to advertise an internal or public competition, and there is no evidence of any competition implemented in Mr Sabic. He received a large number of people in his service, under a contract of work, under a contract of temporary and occasional jobs and spent state budget money of nearly 33 million dinars. I'll give you one example. On the basis of the work contract of 15 October 2015 with a certain Ivana Zivkovic, he signed a contract and, be careful, from 2015 to today, a profit of over three million dinars was paid on the basis of the work contract. Otherwise, you have as many contracts as you want, with Milosevic Vasic 218 thousand dinars, and Milan Zoric 255,000 dinars, and 621 thousand dinars, etc. Interestingly, one of the contracts was concluded with Mrs. Dragan Rajic Pozderac, the wife of Jasminko Pozderac, who is otherwise known as the money supplier Vuk Jeremic via the embassy from Qatar. I'm telling you this clearly that you have in mind, that you know who has come together not only against this law, which you have proposed, or these laws, but against all the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42442	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Gorica Gajic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42443	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 and Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted, and you are obliged to follow the course of the session. A few days ago when I was talking about bill proposals, about cells and tissues, human organ transplants were just advertised by the Rules of Procedure not to stick to the subject of the agenda, and I was talking about exactly what was on the agenda, and it was quite a tribute to me for the injury of my colleague Martinovic's Rules of Procedure. That is why now there should be no double arches and I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure because counterpart Martinovic was completely out of the agenda when it comes to amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on human cells and tissues. Thank you, and I'm not asking you to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42444	Thank you, colleague Gajic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42445	Member 107, Mr. Marinkovic. Why did I read all this? When you read all these figures, 32 million dinars, three million dinars, 218 thousand dinars, 255,000 dinars, 621 thousand dinars, 191,000 dinars, 390 thousand dinars, 197,000 dinars, 197,000 dinars, Mr Sabic spent 1,350,561,000 dinars on nine official trips abroad, the Media Centre spent nine press conferences, where otherwise brutal attacks by ministers, MPs, amounts to untruth, defamation of his own state, etc. for these press conferences, he spent 207.430 dinars. Why am I saying all this? Gentlemen, imagine that this money was used for some smart purposes, for treating people, for buying new medical devices, for equipping the Clinical Centre of Serbia, for equipping the Vojvodina Clinical Center, for home health, would be much more money for sick children, for sick people. We could deal with some other problems that we face as a state. The man whom this Assembly has chosen to allegedly protect information from public importance, i.e. making it available to citizens, attacks its own state from day to day, is campaigning against almost every minister in the government of Serbia against the President of the Republic, against the Prime Minister, against the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42446	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42447	That's why I've read all these numbers, so the people know what this gentleman is doing, even though he's falsely claiming to be an independent independent state organ.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42448	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, thank you. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42449	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, of course, is the key economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia for the development of the health system and for the further improvement of the health system. Serbia has recovered economically thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, the responsible government and all those measures taken by the current president, and then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. Of course, it is also important to have a responsible and serious financial business, because it is one of the ways in which the budget is filled, and the budget is financed by both health services and funds the restoration of homes and hospitals and finances, ultimately, the improvement of health care. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 concerning the improvement of health care. I'd especially like to apostrophe here. ( 22) and 24). Point 22 refers to the traceability of data and this is very important from the point of location of cells and tissues at any time, i.e. from the moment of taking, or from the moment of the donor to the moment of the recipient. I would also point 24 to the promotion of voluntary giving. I find this very important. Of course, the Ministry of Health, as a responsible ministry, will continue to work to promote voluntary giving, precisely to raise altruism to provide complete and accurate data and to inform the public about the importance of organ transplantation. I would also like to point out that Serbia is the only country in the world whose citizens, i.e. patients, are allowed to intervene at gamma and cyber knife on the cost of the Republic Health Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42450	Thank you. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42451	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 3. I have submitted an amendment to the bill, which adds item 3 -- that the humanist character of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the development of health conditions. The assistance of any kind of one person to another, especially if it concerns the provision of health services, help with treatment, and in particular organ donation, is consumed by the humanist character of the highest level. The improvement and improvement of health conditions for adequate treatment and care of the sick is a permanent task of every healthcare worker and health institution, which is carried out by means of instructions from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry. In the health center of Užica, the city from which I come, 3,420 workers, of which 2,700 medical staff, provide permanent health care for the population of the Zlatibor district, which extends to a area of 6,132 km and according to the latest list there are about 315,000 inhabitants. I would point out that the involvement of prominent people and companies in the region, as well as humanitarian associations, also organise humanitarian actions to help individuals in treatment, but also to raise certain funds for the purchase of medical equipment. Once such a humanitarian action several years ago, money was collected and an operating table, surgical lamps, electric ultrasound knives and an anesthesia machine was purchased for the health center of Užice. If we are talking about the humanitarian character of applying the proposed law, I believe that one of the ways that will certainly affect the improvement of health services and the quality of life of the population is stated. In voting day, Serbian People's Party MPs will support these and other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42452	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42453	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is evident that we will all agree that health care is very important for every resident of our country and that it is the task of all of us to take care of health and health care. On the other hand, we will also agree that we could achieve a good and quality health system, that certain financial resources are necessary and necessary. But there's something we rarely mention and we don't care enough about. It's an education and education for all citizens and we've failed there. Our citizens didn't even have the opportunity through the school system to study and learn anything about health care. We used to have one subject, physical and health education, and now I see that he's been kicked out of the education system, and I think we should do a lot of things to make future generations of small legs, from home to education and basic postulates, related to health and health care. On the other hand, the ministry and their teams must start from one place to another and tell citizens on the spot what the law, what the novelties are and what must be taken into account. I was on Tumbi this weekend in Black Treva, we laid a wreath of fallen fighters, citizens of Black Treva, third-invited Bulgarian forces, and defeated them in the first war, defeated them to their feet, made it impossible for them to continue here at the heart of Serbia and so much assistance to our fighters. I hope so, the minister promised me that those other weeks would most likely come to Black Trev, so he'll talk to the citizens on the spot and see what their opinion is. Now we've talked about organ donation, a lot of them didn't even know what it was, there's a lot of people who want to get involved in the action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42454	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42455	I thank the chairman. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the third day of the debate in detail on the draft law on human cells and tissues, but at the same time, the third day as we were denied for the precious presence of representatives of the former regime's parties. Here, with some rare exceptions, the empty benches are mostly ahead of us and I can't help but wonder – what is more important for them than the presence of a session where such an important law is discussed? What are the more important jobs they have on Thursday, last Friday, today? Where are they? What are they doing? I understand it's July, I understand it's the year. I understand that they're probably more comfortable and comfortable on the beaches, on vacation, Balsha's probably in the Maldives, Kena's probably walking her shoes, and Sanda's in Rome, Milan, who knows where, but it's extremely irresponsible. On the other hand, we also listen to criticism through social networks "twitters", "facebooks" from the same people who have not qualified to come to the National Assembly session, that this law is not bad, that the results of the Ministry of Health are not good, and that they are not to come here to face arguments and that this stance of defence in the debate. Congratulations to you ministers on all the results of the Ministry of Health that we have heard about all these days in this debate. I would also like to congratulate Finance Minister Sinishi Mali on the results confirmed by the European Commission several days ago, where it was once again decedibly stressed that Serbia is an economic leader in the Western Balkans and that Serbia's economic growth is greater than any other country in the environment, but also from some EU member states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42456	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42457	I would, of course, also be entitled to a replica, given that the president, or president of my parliamentary group, has been mentioned, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42458	No, you have the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42459	... I do, but I don't need it enough by amendment. So, to answer to my colleague Markovic, every MP has the right, as he has the right to propose amendments to whatever they are, though pointless, obviously with the intention of obstructing the discussion, so I have the right to respond to this by attending or not attending the session. It is not at all the obligation of any MP to make an account and to explain why he is here and why he is not there, unless the absence justified by the President or the chairman of the Assembly. So, I speak for myself, I'm here. On the other hand, I fully understand those who don't want to be there, because for three days now, we've heard from a respected colleague, we've been talking for three days, and we've reached the third member of the first law. So, obviously that practice with the submission of amendments that serve not to actually discuss the subject, continues, continues, I would say at the expense of both the proposal itself and the proposings themselves. What's motive this time, except for the inert I'd say, it's a wish not to talk about what's most important in this law and what's most controversial in this bill, and that's the famous assumed consent. I talked about it a little bit last time, I was criticised and called by the minister, but he didn't really respond to that key dilemma. That's what the public is interested in and I have to admit that I also think that my colleagues should be there, but that's my opinion, I say, they have the right to react, to boycott, to directly or indirectly not want to attend or as they say they participate in some kind of farce. So, gentlemen, everything is nice and commending the government's results and commending the progress made in the field of health that colleagues here exhibit, although citizens know best how much progress this is. I have repeatedly praised or talked positively about some bill proposals, as well as the efforts of medical workers throughout Serbia, even made a joke and said, like, another law that I will not be able to support. So, unfortunately, I don't support it, but I wouldn't mind him supporting it. The point is, dear colleagues, that we have a very controversial proposal, which has its own arguments for and against, and I am glad that there are some who support it from the opposition's ranks. I just think, and some of the world's experiences I've been asking about, show that the introduction of this assumed consensus, where all citizens of Serbia are obliged donors, does not automatically increase the number of donors, and what is more, in some countries even, there has been a reduction in the number of donors. That's the kind of thing we should talk about here and the minister and we on this side that we have objections about. So I'm the most well-intentioned, at least in part and in some funny tone, mentioned that it would be better to be one action, motivated to support, encouraged citizens to be real, real and voluntary organ donors, not to go from being all donors unless explicitly spoken out. So, I think that Mr. Minister has made a bit of a mistake, not only about me, but also about some MPs of the opposition, because he has disqualified all objections in that direction as unprofessional or insufficiently directed. I asked, what if the family has the last word? What if there's a discrepancy within the family? The minister says, in that case, there is no donation, but it does not say in this bill. That's not how it stands, it could be in a law that has several hundred pages, there could be a sentence to be introduced. The citizens are confused, the citizens are, I must say, a little bit uncomfortable with this proposal. I'm not about to cut the donor number, I'm about to increase it. My most well-intentioned remark is that by law like this, especially in this atmosphere, this kind of polarization, because, I say, mutual accusations. So, Mr. Minister, I didn't call you a doctor of death, and I don't know what they've all called you here, and I've spoken very highly of you and your associates and your suggestions, by the way, be told, and I've received attacks and disqualifications. When you are safe or when the proposing is safe and the ruling majority that the law is good, then there would be no need for it and that you are sure that it is so good and that it is undeniable. He's not indisputable. Yes, there are in the world, there are examples of being introduced and being introduced in Europe, but we don't always have to be more Catholic than the Pope. Yes, it was introduced in Croatia, Slovenia, some other European countries, but the results are far from indisputable, they are very discriminatory. In addition, one BBC analysis last year shows that, without any additional measures, only the introduction of this default, or assumed donation, does not increase the number of transplants and the number of voluntary organ donors. So these are the things we should be discussing here, not listening to for three days how well the health situation is and how great it is and how the minister works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42460	Thank you. Easy, everybody's gonna turn up, the list's full here. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42461	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, member of the 107th Injury of Dignity. The citizens transferred part of sovereignty to us, in direct, free democratic elections. Our obligation to the citizens is to represent their sovereignty in this assembly. They are not pointless amendments, they are pointless MPs who do not respect the will of citizens and who do not attend here, because somewhere they are guessing for the next assembly if they choose to go to elections, etc. A violation of dignity is done by a person who has been propagating for days, propaganda against this law. That's allowed. But if we had planted millions of cells in him like the Serbia lottery, during the rule of Boris Tadic, who planted millions in him, perhaps a fellow MP would have had a completely different conversation. Since we haven't done that since we haven't implanted millions of lottery cells on him, he's been propaganda against this law for days. It's his right, but his right to call our advocates pointless, to call our amendments a pointless team before he spends ten times less time here than I do. He comes in, he says something, he comes out, it's not representing citizens. In the end, he did the same thing today. So they come in shifts, half an hour, say something and come out. In the end, man is a miracle, a medical phenomenon. The organs are transplanted, this transplanted, all of which are medical achievements, but no one has yet been able to transplant the nationality except for Djordz Vukadinovic, called Djokov. He even managed to transplant himself the national feelings of others, and that's why he's a medical phenomenon to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42462	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Do you want to speak with the National Assembly in voting day? No, I don't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42463	Article 104, Mr. Chairman, which speaks of the fact that a MP cannot be offended about another MP, and of course an insult to all MPs is the majority when according to such an important law, which should really enter our citizens' minds, says that our amendments are pointless. If anything in this room is pointless, the mandates of those who cannot cross two percent in the Belgrade elections are pointless. It is meaningless and it is immoral and it is only one fact that the role of the MP is used only for personal good even though the long-standing reputation in the circle of citizens is lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42464	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word has Serbian Filipovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42465	Thank you, Chairman. Article 27 has been injured, which says the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. I ask you to pay attention to the appearances of the MPs who address each other, especially how what remains of this sad opposition, the sad opposition, is addressed to the members of the SNS and the MPs from our parliamentary group. It is probably pointless for them to submit amendments, because we, with our amendments, want to try to make some contribution to making the laws even better and, of course, to say what is good and everything that has been affirmatively done in the area of health in the Republic of Serbia over the past six years. It is absolutely pointless for them to submit amendments, but it is not pointless to spend a summer in Rome and to buy pumpkins on a discount. I guess now the winter dressing room is on a discount flight, so it's not pointless for them to pick up white-world beaches, but it's pointless for them to sit in the Assembly, it's pointless to have a real and reasoned debate. For them, of course, it is not pointless to spit and insult Alexander Vukic and SNS, and it is all the honour of the Serbian government that supports all of this and which invests tens of millions of euros in new clinical centres, and in the reconstruction and reconstruction of both the old and the Tirshaw 1 and 2 and all that we do, and in the new opera thanks to the treatment of our children and our parents. Therefore, Serbian citizens see very well what sits across from us and know it and evaluate it in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42466	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Right on the replica of Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42467	Thank you, Chairman. A lot of things the previous speaker said in an attempt to unwittingly defend his president, as he said himself, Sandu Raskovic Ivić, just did not give a key answer to the key question, which is – where is Sanda Raskovic Ivić all these days? Where is she? Where's Thursday, where's Friday, where's today? What is more important than a session of the National Assembly for a People's MP who receives the salary paid by Serbian citizens, and that salary is not small? What's that? What's that? Where is he? Why are you hiding this information? What's the problem? He's not here. He's on vacation. He's on the beach. Why is it a problem to say? On the other hand, he said he didn't have to lay down accounts. It does not need her or you in her name to account for us, any of us, to account for the citizens of Serbia who chose her, if they chose her at all. But also to account for another important thing, which is that she changed the party's uniform in the current term, in the current term. So, as far as I know, she was elected to the DSS or Dveri list or something, and then she changed the party to represent Vuk Jeremic. If he had any morals, he should resign, he should return the mandate to the party whose list was elected, but it is obvious that the moral issue and Sande Raskovic Ivic do not go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42468	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42469	Article 104 concerning and which regulates the right to replication. I'm just wondering, Mr. Chairman, what needs to be said here for me to get the right to the line. But anyway, so this member was injured and I'll explain why. Because here it is not about the presence or absence of Sanda Raskovic Ivić or a few dozen other opposition MPs, it is about one law that, apart from a number of good things and sides, has several controversial things that have upset the public, or at least caused dilemmas among citizens. Where is he now or that MP, I'm really saying, is not the topic of debate, nor do I know at this point. I know that Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić was an advocacy, that she spoke as head of the parliamentary group and spoke at the beginning of this debate. But I'm really telling you, dear colleagues, do you really think someone should sit here and listen to these amendments masochistically? So I have done nothing to offend the dignity of this assembly, nor the MPs. The only word I have used is and I repeat – that amendments are pointless. Those who bear it know that, too, the minister knows that. So I ask you, how many amendments have been adopted, dear colleagues, how many of these amendments have been adopted? They're all rejected with the same explanation, because that's what they're doing, just a little distracting from the central theme. Our, my, three or four amendments were adopted, of course, not this key, for key things, but that concerned some legal-technical matters. So we've submitted five, six or seven amendments, four of which have been adopted. Here, you see now who submits meaningful amendments and who endures pointless amendments. So, one more thing, there are very few representatives of the opposition here and they speak very politely, honor some exceptions, when that's not the case. It's hard for you too, and it's hard for your colleagues to swallow. Well, what do you want? And when there is no opposition, then they say – why do we not confront them? How do we deal with an opinion, when on my one mild discussion, critically, and I end it, ten commercials start with the Rules of Procedure and play a few more replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42470	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. You asked to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you had the right to a replica, I would give it to you, believe me. You're mentioned, but I can't offer you anything, but you can ask for it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Articles 108, 109 and 103. I'm not asking you to apply the measure provided for in Articles 103, 7 and 8, I admit, sometimes you might as well apply it to me. But again you allowed the word “mazochism. ” Who are we torturing here? Here, Mr. Minister is here, imagine that 20% of nurses will not come to Serbia's Clinical Centre today, so that 20% of the staff will not come to work. Imagine not having 20% of people come to some factory where each has its own task and each needs to be installed one piece at a time. I see the Assembly as a collection of jobs. Politics is also a product that should be packaged not only by the authorities, but also by the opposition, to take their remarks into account. I don't see that masochism is because we've proposed amendments, so they should sit in the O.R. and come in line like we do. As much as we can handle the amendment, so can they. It has a constructive part of the opposition that uses it and has those who, according to my colleague Atlagic, are lufting around the city. So there's a big difference between us sitting in our jobs and those who don't. Also, he didn't deserve a replica. At the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, there is no replica, so it could have been if some regular discussion had been, but I know there was a series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure shown three or four times. So, I don't expect a man to know about medicine, when he treats hair with magic, two wings of bat, one cross of cock, two hairs, one toothpick, well, that's his domain in medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42472	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. In accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of one minute and we'll move on with our work. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42474	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, these days when we are discussing a set of laws in the field of health, given everything we have achieved in this particular area, I am somehow forced to remind my colleagues and citizens of Serbia how many times we have heard from the previous regime – even regional development. For the previous regime, even regional development was a phrase for collecting cheap political points, firing workers, closing factories, collapse of health care, and all that could have collapsed, cannot be called development or even regional development. But today, if we look around us and realistically look at the situation in the territory of our entire Republic of Serbia, we will see what even regional development is. In fact, it is also the opening of factories, new jobs, investment in the health system, renovation and equipment of schools, construction of road infrastructure in the territory of the entire Republic, etc. In previous days, colleagues have presented what has been done in health institutions throughout our Serbia, and in my presentations I have set a few examples. Now I'm going to look back at the House of Health in Kursumlia, what was actually done there, because I just came from that community. In fact, the local self-government, led by the SNS, stands out eight million dinars annually for the ongoing adaptation of the House of Health. Also, the local self-government in co-operation with the European Progress has funded the construction of a laboratory in the municipality of Kursum, which has significantly facilitated the lives of my locals, because for more demanding laboratory analyses they no longer have to go beyond Kursumlia, but they can do anything in the municipality itself. So, everything we do today, we do in the best interests of the citizens of Serbia, we do to improve the health care system, and that is the amendment I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42475	Thank you, colleague Charapich. According to the amendment, the word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42476	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to say that I actually agree with this text that my colleague said. It's a very good appeal for balanced regional development and in any case I support it, only it unfortunately has nothing to do with the subject, nor with this law, nor with what this is about. I apologize to my colleague, I have been referring to her, because she was really too much and very meaningful about the need for even regional development, as most of us here believe, think, but I stress, it has nothing to do with the bill, nor with the amendments, and all of you who submit the amendments, you know, as well as the Ministry. So I ask again -- how many of your amendments were adopted from this package, from this set to the first four members of the first law? No, they only serve not to hear the opposition's voice, it doesn't matter if it's weak, whether it's smart, stupid, etc., that there are no critical objections to this law. That's why I don't want to answer to any of my colleagues in the past, if it can be called colleagues, who, every discussion, every topic that's not sacred, use only for disqualifications, attacks, personal insults, and that's probably their job in this House. And yet, they count on people not going down to that level and into that mud, and then they pass without response and without replication. In particular, I do not want to use the subject when it is so important and every precious second I have at my disposal as president of the parliamentary group to return to the basic topic and to the concerns of the citizens about some parts of this law. I think that the minister and colleagues of the ruling majority have the obligation to remove this dilemma, as we all together have the task of doing everything to be more voluntary donors, but not to do it in a way that is said – you are all donors, you are all organ donors potential, and if you do not then make a written statement. It's a key topic of this, that's what citizens are interested in, not our bickering and petty or more or less witty remarks. I just don't think it would be a bad idea for the government and Mr. Minister to put an explanation, let's just say, in that part of the commitment, that the last instance is a family, to define it. I said, what if one member of the family, say, supports, and another member of the family does not support, for example, organ donation? Who's in the way? Is one brother or another brother more important? You said, "It's enough for anyone to stand up." The family is quite broad, or relatives, quite a broad term, especially in Serbia. So it should be specific and precise, on the one hand. On the other hand, let's say, as I said, you've also shown yourself to be the ruling majority very convincing, waved at the percentages how much power she won and how many opposition she has to, I don't know, the presidential and city elections. Yeah, they're really bad percentages and they're really alone, or we're alone, or they're alone, guilty of these bad results. But you boast that you have 40, 50%, or even 60, according to some research. So, let's act on your voters, act on your 700,000 members. Let them sign up voluntarily as donors, so there will be no need for all Serbian citizens to be automatically donors until they say otherwise. So, here, run that action. Col. Martinovic said it in time – I don't represent anyone here. Here, I, whoever little, misrepresent, would also get involved in that action and invite. Of course, I don't mean to say that everything in this law is bad, but one thing is bad. It has caused public concern, caused controversy, and I think it will result in some parts of the world where this consensus, I suppose, is introduced, and the default consensus where it has not only not increased, but has even reduced the number of donors, as in Brazil and some other countries. Where some other actions were followed, parallel actions, the results were much better and then the number of transplants and the number of voluntary donations increased. My appeal – throw out this default consent, or assumed consent, for voluntary organ donors, and launch a broad and comprehensive action in a society that would increase that number of donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42477	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Dr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42478	This law has nothing to do with the position or the opposition, please understand that. From this law, and in their name I'm talking, there's a lot of people who expect and depend on thousands of people, plus their families, and they're interested in people who work in health care. The law has long been passed, as you say there is uncertainty, there are more who have said, and you're engaged in research, or I don't know, that this should have been passed much earlier. If we're going to talk carefully to the facts, ignore the opposition and position, long done, involved our most professional people, conducted public debate, watch models, experiences of others, you'll always find some model, some experience that can serve you for something. How can we compare ourselves to Brazil without comparing ourselves with the first of some neighbours, Slovenians, Croats and others. Croatian champion of the world in transplant, has the same, or similar law, Slovenia excellent results. And now, doing our most professional people, doing the profession we trust, which we want to do and say, that dilemma, I make it clear to you last time, that there is exactly a list – father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister. So, everything writes nicely to you, any of them to say – no, it doesn't matter at all. I've already explained that to you twice. So, very clearly, not just to you, but to everyone, but do you people think you need someone on this bill to cheat? Does anyone on this thing need to cheat? Well, you know what people say. Well, then somebody's got to be on their own. It's all a hoax, it's all a crime, it's all this. If someone's supposed to cheat on this, and someone's life depends on this, we don't have a solution for it, then someone's gonna kill us to cheat.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42479	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42480	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, speaking of this amendment, we need to make something else, which is that citizens' concerns create those who view this law as something that is contrary to the objective of this law. And, contrary to the interest of those two thousand patients and many other potential patients who need this law. And this law and how it has a legal basis, no matter how far the legal profession may have passed, I say perhaps, this law has a great legal basis. First, which is compatible with the Legacy Act, the second is compatible with family law. The minister gave an explanation and I will only extend it from a legal point of view. It's that heirs as universal Successors, and these are all heirs in the right succession order and father, which is in the second hereditary order or mother who are in the second succession order, children who are in the first succession row, can dispute the assumed consent. Any one of them to challenge that assumed consent, no more consent. That law of succession speaks very clearly, and then we come to a stage of demagogy, a classic demagogy, so what if someone disagrees? Well, it's clear what we'll do if someone doesn't agree. Is this now motivated to really create concerns among citizens in an artificial way, improvisation, very poor interpretations of the law. We can't let that happen. From here, a very clear message should come out of the Assembly, that this is exclusively in the interest of patients, that this is exclusively in the interest of potential past two thousand those who and how they necessarily expect it and that we must support the provisions of this law without reservation, so the SPS Group will also vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42481	Thank you, co-worker, Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42482	In light of what the minister said, I support your clarification and I think it's better that that clarification, it's only good to say it explicitly, repeat it multiple times, at least as many times as we've heard those, as I said, what, but phantom and pointless amendments. I also don't mind, far from being the goal of chasing some political points, so let's not be children, ignoring ourselves so much as we say. I have repeatedly supported the proposals, or I have praised the suggestions that this minister has brought here to the Assembly or I have heard from my colleagues that they are not bad or that they can always share a little bit. We've got something here that's controversial and that we can't do on behalf of, that's it, a council or some general good atmosphere, over it to get over it. There are ethically and philosophically some arguments, including the right to tell you psychologically when it comes to citizens of the country of Serbia, who talk about being cautious. And that's all I've alluded to. I said it was a common interest in increasing donor numbers. And whether it's constructive or not, because my discussion or the discussion of those who use every opportunity to disqualify me personally, senseless insults, which talk about Vlach magic, which offend some people who are not here in the Assembly, mentioning Gilas, Jankovica, this one or that one, Jeremic, means, they're putting in topics that no one, Shabic, means, the Commissioner for Information. So which one of us is speaking constructively. I, who gives you examples and say, let's be careful, isn't always good enough results, even if we introduce that mandatory or assumed and default donorship. It's my idea and my discussion, and it's my constructiveness. But because of this constructiveity, I suffer and go over very much, trust me with possible effective answers to all sorts of nonsense, the insolences I hear here on my own account, not wanting this important topic, an important discussion, I agree with you, regarding the lives of citizens, but also with regard to the human rights of all other citizens. I simply believe that here, indirectly, there is little danger and human rights that millions of other citizens are being violated by the fact that consent is meant, and you, if you don't agree, sign that you don't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42483	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister, please. I see you have your word, but first the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42484	I think we understand each other, that there is really no longer this dilemma about when one of those members says no, there is no agreement. To clarify one more thing, that the citizens know, since I've seen it potentiate on it, you can determine someone that his organ might match someone else. Let's just repeat the procedure, when someone gives consent, and when you enter the procedure, when that organ prepares for transplants, only then, after consent, is typing, that organ and potential recipient. Only then can it be determined whether it corresponds to that organ to the recipient. Before that, no one in the world, until they've been typed, can know if someone's got an organ or just a blood type or anything. Please, let me get this straight. Please don't be afraid of people, that as they found someone with the same blood type, they'll give him an organ. The procedure doesn't start until after consent. Before that, no one can take an organ, do a typeing or anything. It's done in specific conditions. And, let's say an alternative solution, that someone doesn't want to involve the brain in all of this and that he doesn't like it, and that he doesn't want to help, the second that this law is passed, the second that this law is passed, on a piece of paper, someone mentioned the notary, someone mentioned the additional costs, there's no difference, the second the piece of paper says, I, this one and that one, I don't want to be a donor, put me in those hospitals where it's done, or comes verbally to the Biomedicine Office, that the written statement says they won't. And, let's cut off all the trouble, anyone who wants to, the day this thing comes to life, goes and solves that problem, if that's what's bothering him, if there's any dilemma. Out of respect for these people, insult me as much as you want, I will answer you nothing in this law, this is about human lives, they are much more important to me than your insults. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42485	Thank you. I once again want to resort to the Minister's words, to suggest to the MPs, that they really don't insult each other. You can't expect a different reaction to your colleague Vukadinovic if you say it's pointless and that something is stupid by other MPs without speaking from the president of your parliamentary group. Look at what it says and how it says. Of course, it's normal and logical for people to answer that. Marjan Rističević, a violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 107, the right of Members of Parliament is to be in favour and against this law. It's right to comment on the law, but according to some of our rules inside. You can't say that amendments are pointless, and they're more than once. Talk about unforgivable comments on his account. I gave Mr. Vukadinovic no rude comment,
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42487	Talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42488	I told you in article 107 that I didn't speak to him personally, so I didn't speak to him personally. So, I don't believe that these are rude comments, if anyone says that he tried to be a representative of the Vlach national minority, and that he was second on the list of Vlaša national minorities, here's Mr. Martinović, and you know it anyway. That's true. Telling the truth in this House isn't a violation, and it's not insolent. Number two, he received two million and 400,000 dinars from Boris Tadic, in his time, from the Serbian lottery, from the lady, right, Mr Martinovic. Is it an insolence to tell the truth. I don't think so. It's a shame to say that someone's amendments are pointless. There are no pointless amendments, these committees are immediately removed, there are pointless MPs, who instead of doing their job, they go and undermine the state, as well as moles. They're undermining the state, working for the state, and I can't determine which one. Now, that's rude, well, that's pointless, and it's not pointless to submit amendments. Promote as much as you will yourself, which is his right, which is the same as the right of all other Members of the people. In the end, it's a shame that the evil languages are not transplanted and not exported, it would be the serious original potential of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42489	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in voting day? No, I don't. ) Aleksandar Martinovic, first has the right to the replica, so Djordje Vukadinovic. Zoran Zivkovic, has been reported. A lively debate, we must be patient. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not surprised at the discussion of Mr. Vukadinovic at all. The Serbian opposition, or what is left of it, so-called The civil, or European opposition, won its new leader in the image of Dragan Gilas, brought them together in Zlatibor, sharing mandates that have not yet won, and therefore they are not in the National Assembly. What Mr. Gjorge Vukadinovic is doing, works on a mission, works on the task of the new boss, so-called "Vukadinović". Civil opposition in Serbia, Dragan Gilas, little campaign against jobs, little campaign against investors, and then campaign against highways, now campaign against human treatment and organ transplants. So that's their policy. Everything in Serbia is seen as bad, all in Serbia as negative, scaring people that someone will catch people in the streets and take their organs. You do it on all social networks. Not Serbian citizens are upset, but you are trying to bring unrest among them, spreading false information. You're talking about not knowing what family members are, so apparently, the family in Serbia is a broad term, everything is defined, Mr Vukadinovic in article 23. The law, and the only thing is that you either did not read the law, or you deliberately shut up to the citizens of Serbia what it says in that article. Taxes are listed family members who can resist taking organs, and only you wave your hands, I don't know what it means to you, maybe you're hungry, and it's almost lunchtime, so they're taxing on which members of the family can oppose organ transplants, and you just keep on campaigning against factories, against highways, against people's health. The Serbian Progressive Party will beat you even more convincingly in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42491	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the line, Gjorge Vukadinovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No matter how painful the debate may have been, I think even she's more useful than listening to those amendments, the songs that the ruling coalition's representatives have been performing here for three days. But what can I tell you, there's something that's controversial, I don't disturb the public, people stop me on the street, cab drivers and ask. Listen, don't have any illusions, you wouldn't be so nervous about my mild and constructive criticism if something didn't hurt you. They're probably asking you what this is about. But, I say, it should be our common goal, but I am not sure that it will contribute to that goal if it is for him in the way he is promoted and how he fights for him, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, in each of his replicas. It's hard for me to explain to him that it's my job to investigate public opinion. In his, Risticevic and Vučić's Serbia, the president decides on what he will and who will receive a donation, or a job. There are other institutions at some other time, and I hope that there will be another time again, yet there are organs that decide. So, it is my job to investigate public opinion, such as the job of Mr. Risticevic to dig or plow the country, which is not working, and he is probably not capable of it, but is getting donations as a young and advanced farmer from this ministry and from this authority. That's why he's talking, what he's saying. I have spoken very constructively here, repeatedly commending the amendments and suggestions of Mr. Minister and I don't know where you, Mr. Minister, have heard me insult you? I have done nothing to offend you today or in previous discussions. Some others insulted you, I didn't. I didn't mention all those epithets and attributes they honor you with. Instead of thanking me for that, you actually insult me and attack me and support those who do the same. Mr. Martinovic is not ordered or issued by anyone, especially Dragan Djilas, especially I do not know who from the opposition. I speak here by conscience, and sometimes they even shifted me because I wasn't critical enough of some suggestions. I thought they were fine and I supported them. I can't and I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42493	Thank you. Comrade Vukadinovic, you have now challenged a series of replicas. You said you wouldn't insult him. You insulted Rističević first. Here you go, Marijan Rističević, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42494	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no such thing as my Serbia. There's a Serbia I love. Serbia's fields and plums. Serbia to which I have dedicated 60 years. I'm not a surgeon, I can't go back to surgery. I'm not even an analyst. I'm not a journalist. I'm not a public opinion investigator. So I don't know how many of those Vlachs are in one Vlach. So he writes about himself, investigates himself, reports himself, presents himself as he said, although he belongs to this group, Gilas and Jeremic. So, I'm a farmer and I use a subsidy in agricultural law as well as all the other farmers. If it's sin to plow and buy a tractor, well, I'm a thief and I'm a sinner. I'm a thief and I'm a sinner because I'm not a luftier and because I bought a tractor and a plow of land. That's what I did before I was a MP. I want to use this country. I don't want to be, like he says, a loofth-ass, I don't want to go to praise this one—what, I don't want to go to a mouse list there, etc. Then I'll give up on him afterwards. I want to serve my country the way I do, to plow the earth, and I don't think it's a sin. It's a sin to buy a yacht, go to Maldives, it's a sin to buy an apartment in Vienna, it's a sin to plant a Kobajagi vineyard for 525,000 euros, then sell a vineyard and all that. But I can't blame a gentleman. He calls me a colleague if that's what he can call it. I can't call them colleagues. In order to call them colleagues, they would have to be here, and since they're not my advice, it's for him to re-apply to Tadic's lottery, to run for two million and four hundred thousand again, because he's famous for not buying tickets and winning. It will have to wait long for Tadic, Djilas and Jeremic to return to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42495	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The right to the replica of Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, to mention the president of the political party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42496	The media and political mafia in Dragan Djilas, Šolak, Vuk Jeremic, found several MPs in the Serbian parliament who have not yet travelled to the sea to campaign against organ transplants this time, to represent on social networks the National Assembly as a "yellow house", that the MPs who will support these laws compare with Thaci and with Haradinaj and Serbian citizens are very well aware of whose order and whose task you are doing so. You can pretend as much as you want, it's clear that here at the part of the campaign not against this or that MP, not against this party or that party, including the SNS, this is about the campaign against the state of Serbia. What Serbian citizens are asking me is how much more jobs we're going to have, is there another place in Serbia that will get a new factory, will we still be able to hire someone, that's what Serbian citizens are interested in? Serbian citizens have full confidence in both the Ministry of Health and the health system of the Republic of Serbia. As for this nonsense that you have said that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, as you say, decides on donations, is firstly not a donation, but a subsidy for a tractor in that dictatorial state, which is run by Aleksandar Vukic, also received the vice president of the party Vuk Jeremic, Miroslav Aleksic, whom I do not see in the National Assembly these days, probably because according to Zlatibor, together with Djilas, Jeremic and Šolak, shares the mandates that you have to win in some subsequent elections. I wish you good luck in those elections. You just have one little problem, you have to convince the people to vote for you who work from 10:30 to 1:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42497	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Gjorge Vukadinovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42498	Right to the replica? I don't have the right to a replica? All right, let's make it an amendment, though I think I'd have the right to a replica. It's not about Zlatibor and the mandates, Mr. Martinovic, it's about one important law that you, as well as all other laws and important and less important here, devalue your, I repeat, pointless amendments, in order not to hear a single word of criticism or doubt that I or some citizen...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42499	Thank you. The time has elapsed for your parliamentary group. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42500	Thank you. It was worth waiting for these half-hours to log in. I said at the beginning of the debate, in principle debate, that I would support this law because it is well prescribed out of good experiences and in the environment and in some other countries and I said that I don't think it's a bad thing, that I think it should be a practice to apply good things to us and that if you want to say copy or be brought into a form that is applicable to our society. Of course, this principled consent to donation is something that will allow a much larger number of donors, a much larger number of organs through the procedure, I have confidence in doctors, I don't trust this authority, but I trust doctors that they will do their job properly and that the citizens of Serbia will benefit from all this. I'm not sure I can understand the opposition colleagues who are against this law, but I also can't understand a government that, in this way, one good law, I repeat, undermines the way a debate is conducted in parliament in this law. Of course, the amendments given by the MPs are pointless. If citizens look naively at this session and hear the information that officials have filed 100-200 amendments to the law proposed by their government, of course it is the first logical conclusion that this law is wrong and that it has to be corrected, and I don't think it's such a situation. Some cosmetic changes are needed more to explain some members, but it is essentially a good law. In this way, everyone wonders – wait, why do they give so many amendments to the law that is good and these give it to them? The second level of senselessness is that there is always one story here about the perfect state of health care in Serbia, which of course is not true and it is not only this authority, this poor state lasts very long and every comparison with the state of the health system and we heard it here, in the EU it is completely pointless. Unfortunately, despite the efforts of the largest number of doctors who work and other medical staff in our health care, our health care is closer to African than European level. You also have in Africa a country where health care is well organized, so it's not something that we need to transfer to each other and that it should be done to create conditions for health care to be better in Serbia. Did she get better by cutting doctor's salary two years-three years ago? Of course not. How many doctors have left this country and other medical staff for this matter alone? Could it have been possible to find a better way to integrate military health care into civil health rather than create a huge military hospital in Nis a new clinic building in Nis that is not equipped and better equipped with the money given for bricks, and that it has entered the adaption of the Military Hospital, that it is invested in equipment, in medicines, in the education of all doctors. How can we say that the health care system is good in one country if every day, on social networks, anywhere you turn, we see dozens, hundreds of calls to treat children with text messages? How can someone seriously say that this is a reflection of a good health system? Of course not, but let's take at least one step in moving towards something better, which is that when, by chance, the game of the case, very rarely, almost never, but here, a solid bill of law has happened by the authorities, why does this have to be broken by such a debate being held in parliament? Counting who's here and who's not there, so look at your ranks. There are not 100 MPs in the boards of government, and as far as I can remember, your majority is 150 and something. So, where are these MPs? Are they at sea, too? Some of them are, probably. And is it normal for someone to go to sea? Of course it is. But that's not the point. It's a theme for bartending, flea markets, who's what, who's where, and so on. Serious people should sit in this House and deal with essential things. Therefore, once again, regardless of the disastrous debate on this law, I will vote in favour of this bill and MPs of the parliamentary group that I am still chairing will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42501	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42502	I don't think at any point, neither I nor anyone here has said that our health care system is perfect. Our health system isn't perfect, our health system has stopped its collapse, and it's starting to build, to make it better. It can be good, what I'm saying, I repeat, in the next few years, for three years, it can be a leader in the region. Compare our system in that sense that you said, with Western systems, there's only one difference – in Western systems there's not what you have here, free health care. That's where it's all paid. Zoran Zivkovic throws. Just a second. Here we have the kind of health insurance that you pay and with the health book you go and get all the services that exist. So we're talking about that vision. The closest kind of method, not the method we have, is necessarily health insurance that means you have two exams a year, and that's certain examinations, ECG, lung scans, analysis, labs. Everything else outside of that you have to pay on the spot. Not to mention the other insurances we talked about, which are extremely expensive, that people there can't get to the doctor, they can't even see them on TV. So I think people in Serbia, who have traveled anywhere, seen, heard, been to someone, absolutely know. Our health care is what it is. We want to keep him until the state strengthens, until there's more pay, until it's all gone. We're investing in it to stay on this kind of vision that it is, to allow citizens not to have to spend extra money on it. But the way it is, our health care, without our people, couldn't have worked, or, much harder, would have worked for Montenegro's health care and health care in Republika Srpska, health care in Macedonia, not to give our team, not to list areas -- neurosurgery, cardiosurgery and the rest. They're facts that are verifiable today, just the same second. I'm distracting people for text messages. There's a budget fund. Is there anything suspicious when you don't report to a budget fund that has enough money to pay you to go abroad, but you organize something without anyone knowing what, where no doctor shows up to explain and say what it is? Pay attention to that too, dear citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42503	Thank you, Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You'll be entitled to a replica, of course. First, Alexander Markovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42504	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. - dignity. The flea market, the pointless amendments and what else we heard a little while ago, you know how – the drinker always talks about the market. That's his theme. On the other hand, the charges come from MPs who are already known in Serbia only for their insolence and, among other things, for their rude and arrogant driving. I was startled, all the media transmitted it, I'm just going to quote one sheet, it's "Hello" that he didn't deny at all, that he caused almost an incident a few days ago because, according to "Alo", Zoran Zivkovic is driving drunk around Belgrade and making strange noises. The city cruise began on Sarajevo Street, where he drove across a full line, and headed towards downtown Belgrade. Then he turned to Bircanin, where he couldn't control the car, and then the Shark, the famous Shark, drove, went to reverse.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42505	A colleague, Markovic, is not the theme of driving Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42506	Then, while his car was in the middle of the street, he lay down on the wheel and drowsy, and then he roars out of his voice. So that says "Hello." The previous speaker was not entitled to deny, although there is a video of the whole ride, although there is a picture of him sleeping behind the wheel and we from such a man are suffering some insults and criticisms. Please, I really think you should have warned him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42507	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Serbia's Filipovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42508	Thank you, Chairman. Article 27. When Mr. Zivkovic, if he can be called a gentleman in general, dares to mention the state of health and to say that the situation in Serbia's health is poor, then it is necessary to look at the 12 years of government that was in the Republic of Serbia, including the time he served as prime minister. What was the state of health then? Why didn't one single euro invest in rebuilding clinical centres? Why didn't they build a new, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art clinic in Nis, like the SNS government did? Why didn't they invest millions of euros in new appliances? Why did they not allow people with a health problem to be treated through the budget fund? These are all the questions he needs to answer first, so he can tell us – well, the health situation is bad. It's much better. At the time they exercised power in the Republic of Serbia and exercised power, Serbia did not exist on the world health map, and during Zlatibor Lončar, Aleksandra Vukic and SNS Serbia returned to that map, the world map, Serbia is now on the map. It's not among the first, it's not among the best, but it exists. We didn't exist until yesterday. Over 40 years, no one has invested one single cent in Serbia's Clinical Centre, has completed it. You've had a great opportunity since that October 5th to do something, to run something. You've sold a lot, a lot of billions of you have taken and stolen from the privatization. If you'd invested just one billion dollars, it would have been a lot better in health care. No, it's much better for you, your friends and your tycoons. That changed today. In Serbia, much better today is for those people who have a place to be treated, how and from what to be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42509	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Jelena Žarić Kovačević, an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42510	Thank you, Chairman. Art. 103 and 108. We've heard of pointless amendments here. I don't think it's right to talk about the amendments of other colleagues that are pointless or insulting other MPs in such a way. SNS MPs here are doing their job, unlike colleagues Zivkovic who are not in the National Assembly sessions. It does not mean that the proposal is bad if SNS MPs submit amendments to some draft law. I'm sorry to allow such a replacement of thesis. I am sorry that my colleague Zivkovic was not here to hear what I was saying in the amendments and to what extent I, facts and arguments, praised health care in Nis. I must also say that he is the only MP who has said here in the National Assembly that Nis does not need a clinical center. So the whole part of Serbia does not need a clinical centre. So people don't matter to him at all. On the other hand, I'm glad he said it, because he showed how he fell from power, how he was when he was in power and what he would be if he were in power again. So the citizens wouldn't be interested in him at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42511	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) colleague Ljiljana Malušić, injured the Rules of Procedure. (Ljiljana Malušić: By amendment. After the amendment? Then you'll have to wait a little while. Marijan Risticevic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 and Article 107. 'Mr. Chairman, I allow you to be tolerated, but not too much. I appreciate that and that my fellow farmer supports this law. As his chosen physician, I appreciate the patient's efforts to understand and support the bill. I welcome that. But a lot is said, and that our health care is at the level of the worst African states, if I remember correctly, the minister is there, Mr. Martinovic is there, they can confirm whether I heard it or not. That's not true. That's malicious. So, the country we found was a house of bare walls, health care was 34th at the discretion of the European consumer, not of the Serbian, European. So, the European consumer is certainly not a member of my party collectively, nor is he a collective member of the SNS. They claim we are the past 11 EU countries, which he denies. They claim it, and a total of 14 countries in Europe. 34, 30, 24, 20, correct if I'm wrong. I'm proud to have been a member of the RFZO Management Board for three years. With 21 members, let the minister confirm, we've moved on to seven board members and the Supervisory Board, we've been doing a job for three. We've introduced dozens of innovative drugs, almost the most expensive, out of it, gamma knife, xnoche, KC Nis, linear-accelators. These are the results that have led us to 20 places in Europe, not the EU, with 11 European countries threatening. But I must say, someone who, as my colleague of agriculture, who cannot appreciate someone else's value, someone's value, can't judge his own. I can't unwisely explain it, because it's unreasonable. If he could do that, he wouldn't even be unreasonable.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42513	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Malušić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42514	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. Sir, all right, at the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly is getting older, so I'd like to ask you to introduce a little order, and I want to speak now... Can I? It's hard for someone who devastated this country until 2012 to talk about health care. In fact, by 2012, health care can be talked about by patients, the first me to be in surgery, from yellow bugs through infections and other things, either -- it didn't happen again. From 2012 to 2018, more than eight billion dinars were invested in health care and bravo for this. It's renovating 150 health facilities, moving, changing water and sewerage pipes, because everything's going on. I don't want to talk about toilets. It didn't happen again. Now, what we did, I'll tax you. From 2014 to 2018, a number of waiting lists have been reduced, some completely and abolished. In Kragujevac, there is no longer a waiting list for radiation, and Nis will soon be lifted. During 2017, an electronic recipe has been established within the IZI system, which will contribute to many minor crowds in health homes. Then, after a multi-year break, it was possible to introduce a group of innovative medicines on the list this year. Bravo. Then, a total of 85 sanitary vehicles were purchased for the needs of healthcare institutions throughout Serbia. On a gamma knife, gold standard, neurosurgery, about 800 interventions were performed in the first year. Epidural anaesthesia free and anaesthesia free and I'll talk a lot by my amendments. That's how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works, with you ministers. That's how the Health Department works. And one more thing. In 2012, we were the last on the health scale, we were 36, and today in just four years we're 24. In another four years, I'm sure we'll be 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42515	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Zoran Zivkovic, right on the line. Here you go, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42516	Thank you very much. I wanted to give a replica to the minister and remind him – the theme was that we could not be satisfied with the state of health care in Serbia. I received an answer that there is no free health care anywhere except in Serbia, which, of course, is not true, and it is paid. There are various modes of how this is done with us, in some other countries, and all Serbian citizens know that they pay a contribution to health insurance, so it's clear as a day, being treated, not being treated. You've got people who haven't gone to a doctor in 40 years, and for 40 years they've paid for a solution like that with us a long time ago, but you can't say it's free health care. It doesn't exist. Of course there are better ways, but it's not the subject of this law. After my attempt at replication, that the health care of Macedonia, Montenegro and Republika Srpska is dependent on Serbian health care, it is not our job. It's their job. It's our job to protect people in an adequate way. The other thing is what's heard, this mass of lies we've heard. Of course I didn't say Nishu didn't need a clinical center. It didn't take a new building because there's as many buildings as you want that could have been renovated in both the existing clinical center and the military hospital, and it's known a long time ago. What's invested in health care, ask, are some people I recognize have been in health care for a very long time, so let them remember what happened since health investments in 2001 and 2002 and 2003. All ambulances were purchased in 2003, which are for all emergency assistance in Serbia. They all got new vehicles. It's just one thing. And magnetic resonances everywhere where conditions exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42517	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42518	Just one more sentence. It's not the point of boasting. It's our job, our government's job, and then today's and today's to work for the benefit of its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42519	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42520	I just have to remind you, when the plan was made and when it was arranged, it was in 2006, that it would be a clinical center in Nis. Don't tell us now, when we couldn't change a single decimal. So, we've found everything already done, except there's nothing to do, and where it's going to be, and what kind of building it's going to be and what it's going to be, and the European Bank won't let you change. It's really not right. Remember the cardiosurgery clinic. When we arrived in 2012, it healed into weed. It's a huge desire to grow... (Zoran Zivkovic: There is no such thing as Nis. ) Cardiosurgery in Nis, over 150 operations done. Zoran Zivkovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42521	Comrade Zivkovic, you will receive a replica. Let the minister finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42522	Call the phone, check it out. They're doctors from Nis at the Cardiosurgery Clinic. No waiting lists. It comes from other clinics to operate in Nis. Please check. Third thing. It's good to mention sanity. Remember only Jucitus when millions were separated to buy the sanity, a call for tender. She got a firm in the tender. Paid to a firm in a tender. Not the company, not the sanity, not the money. Check it out, Jucite, millions, no sanity has been paid back or anything. No, 85, 100 cents we've put in the health system for this time, and we'll continue, of course. It's expendable.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42523	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. Right on the replica Zoran Zivkovic, then Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42524	I'm not the one who accused you of that new clinic building in Nis. I said it was irrational whoever did it in 2006. If it's 2006, then don't brag that you made it, since your MPs are now saying that you made it. Did they make it yellow in 2006 or did you make it now? I'm not going down to that level of debate because it's pointless. So, "Jucit", that's not true, and today you have ambulances, it's "Citroen", I think. No, no, no, well, check it out for sure. Until a year ago, there was no information from the director of the Nis Clinical Center on cardio surgery in Nis, which was done by doctors from Nis. They've been to the specials here, but in the last year. So I know doctors in Nis very well, so we're not getting into that subject. Generally, then, there was investment in health care as much as possible, much more rationally then, than today, and we came to the obvious fact that the construction of the Clinical Centre in Nis began in 2006 when there was no SNS, so don't brag, now you have done it, and the comments that have given some other colleagues sitting here and on their untruths, or what Aristotle would say – lies, I won't answer, they are obviously proof that health care in Serbia is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42525	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I apologize to Minister Marijan Risticevic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you will get the word. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one more applicable saying to my patient. As a chosen doctor, I have to quote that saying, he says - there's no greater than evil, no greater than evil. She's very applicable in this case to my patient, a fellow farmer. According to estimates of "Finansl integrity", in this country, and he was prime minister in that period, it was carried out by 2010. It's illegal 51 billion dollars. However, since 2012 when, for example, the cost of RFO treated 40 children, we treated 14 times more abroad last year. They treated seven adults with one child. Eight children were treated by an adult. All who have not passed, a very small number, have had the opportunity to exercise their right in the Republic of Serbia's budget fund unless it has been realised at the cost of the RFO. Immeasurable are the results my fellow farmer is trying to disprove. So someone who took part in 51 billion dollars is the culprit. Why are our doctors and sisters fleeing abroad? How much we could raise the salaries of health employees if that didn't happen, and that's most of the money from the privatisation incomes that have been pumped abroad and are no longer in the country's business chain, but somewhere in this country they buy yachts for that kind of money. And finally, let me say, as far as the Nis Clinical Center is concerned, my fellow farmer is not a patient for that facility, and my colleague Rancic needs to confirm it for me. I think he's for a facility three miles from Nis. His name is Topanica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42527	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42528	Just around the Nis Clinical Center, I think everybody knows, but it doesn't matter. In 2006, a contract was signed, the Clinical Center was due to be completed by 2009/2010. years and completely emigrated and completely worked. In 2012, he didn't have any bricks in the base, not anything else. There was a swamp, we took pictures, there are pictures as it was found in 2012, and today you know what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42529	Thank you, Minister. In accordance with Article 27, we continue to work on the amendments. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Ivana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42530	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of the proposed law will ensure, among other things, an effective organisation of health institutions. But in order for the Republic of Serbia to think about providing the work that we are discussing today, a lot of investment and a lot of health recovery efforts had to be preceded. To do this intensively, many statistics are recorded that position our country in increasingly better places on world-renowned lists. Great efforts have been made by the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Health in the recovery of the health system. If they had taken responsibility for the implementation of a policy that delivers good results, I would say on the case of a health home in Ubb. We are grateful to the Ministry of Health for the donation and fitting of dental services, for the donation of the ultrasound apparatus, the ECG portabla apparatus. I would point out that it is responsible and dedicated to work, and also in collaboration with the founder, Ub municipality, in the home of health, the expanded activity of providing services in the form of ophthalmological services, physiology, psychiatry, and the construction of a department of haemodialysis, internal medicine and ORL is in perspective. This is how it works in the interests of citizens and creating better conditions for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42531	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragomir Karic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42532	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, respected ministers, co-workers of the minister, I'm advertising Article 103 because there was probably something wrong, a technique, so you didn't notice my report...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42533	I noticed your call, but I have the right to resume my session in accordance with my authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42534	Normally, as I have the same right to advertise members I consider injured. I appeal to you, as chairman, that Minister Loncar came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a guest and to our call, to explain and answer questions, not to enter a fight and to mention something there that does not stand. It's clear enough by Minister Loncar that it should be clear to everyone, and it's clear long ago. I understand the opposition and opposition colleagues who still want an affirmation over small screens and then and where there is absolutely nothing, find something. In any case, Mr. Minister, I congratulate you on this work, a great pawn. Much has been done and I congratulated on what I heard this morning, that the new 39m investments will be invested in the Clinical Centre of Serbia and that in the future we will have not only Nis, Serbia, but also Novi Sad and Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42535	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement on the injury in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42536	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill on human cells and tissues that read – the humanist character of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the development of medical protection. Article 3 of this proposal provides for the meaning of the terms and terms used in this law, all in order to better and better understand and implement this law. The area of human cells and tissues has so far been governed by the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation, as well as by sublegal acts adopted under this law. This law is only partially in line with European legislation in this area which was in force at the time of its adoption. The application of this law found the need to improve and specify the conditions of the organisation and business in the area of cells and tissues for human use, as well as the supervision of doing business in this area, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as for organising work in the fields of human cells and tissues, which, with respect to the principles of traceability, will ultimately improve the quality of health care provided in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, and in line with EU rules in this area. In the voting day, I will vote in favour of this bill, as well as all other laws that are on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42537	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42538	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the Ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, based on Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia, on the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues submitted by the Government, submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this law. Article 3 provides the meaning of the terms used in this law, which further defines the understanding of this law. Namely, the definition of a cell is given, but I would have complemented it and that definition would not essentially change the definition of the law, but I think it would be more comprehensive, quote: "The cell is a basic structural, or structural and functional unit of living matter and the least organized form in which life exists (single cell organisms)". As you can see, my definition of what I've quoted is only partially different from this definition in the law. Also, a definition of tissue is given that says: “Tissue marks all the components of the human body that are made up of cells. ” I would complement that definition by the fact that the tissue represents morphologically similar or different cells that are grouped together and as such can perform a specific function’ (there are four types of tissues: epithetic, binding, muscle and nerve tissue). In the break, in the hallway, people ask me – how is that blood tissue? I tell them -- blood, yes, it's tissue and it's the only liquid connective tissue. The stem cells are the basis of our organism, successfully perform and regenerate all cells and tissues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42539	Thank you, Doctor. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here's a colleague of richinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42540	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, at Leskovac General Hospital, the development of gastroenterology, particularly the digestive endoscopy or endoscopy of the welding organs began in 1984. The first educator for doctors in the field of digestive endoscopy at Leskovac Hospital was Prof. Dr. Tomislav Tasic, and later a well-known gastroenterologist, Prof. Dr. Bojan Malovski, who, besides other things, worked the endoscopic method of extracting stones from bile roads and significantly contributed to the education of staff from the gastroenerology field. The upward trend in the development of gastroenerology in this hospital continued with the return of doctors of medical science, Saša Grgova, from the sub-species of gastroenerology in 1994, and especially after his education at the University of Shiga, near Kyoto in Japan. Dr. Saša Grgov, Head of Internal Medicine and Head of Educational Centre of the General Hospital Leskovac, introduced several top endoscopic methods into routine clinical practice and specifically worked on the formation of an endoscopic team by educating other doctors. In addition, inter-rutine endoscopic interventions, carried out at Leskovac General Hospital, include endoscopic haemostasis or the resolution of bleeding changes in the digestive tract with the most modern methods, avoiding most patients with surgery, which in many cases is risky due to poor general condition of the patient. Given the extraordinary co-operation of the top endoscopic team Dr. Saša Grgova and also the top laparoscopic surgical team Dr. Predrag Ivanovic, a surgeon from the Leskovac General Hospital, the new approach to endoscopic removal of larger tumours with lateral spread to the colon under laparoscopic control is planned. This provides additional safety in the work, and benefit for patients is the removal of these tumours, without resection of that part of the colon, or preserved bowel integrity. All in all, respected ministers, all of what I have said in the previous days and today, states that the General Hospital of Leskovac stands side by side with the clinical centres of Serbia, and all of course with the great help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, whose head you are on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42541	Thank you, colleague Bogatinović. I'm not allowed to praise Leskovac much. Others will criticize me. Let's move on. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42542	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, institutions providing health care, any assistance in the form of co-operation, support, donations or projects is necessary because it will therefore be more adequate and health care. I'd like to remind you of June 1st of this year's meeting, where the grant contracts were delivered on the basis of a delay in prosecution. 130 contracts have been awarded. The House of Health in Nis received 13.200,000 dinars under the Digital X-rays Project. This donation will contribute to improving the quality of services provided, but will also contribute to increasing safety in the work of employees. What I still wanted to point out was the awareness of the people of Nis. More specifically, citizens of the Median municipality recognized the importance and voted that the DZ needed another supply of UZ apparatus provided from the funds of the prize game "Take the Account and Win", where the city's Medjana municipality took second place. Population health is one of the priorities not only at local, but at regional and national level. If it wasn't for success at the health ministry and fortification of the health minister and employees at the health ministry, I certainly wouldn't be able to present the facts that show a high level of development of our health care. I want you, Minister, to continue this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42543	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Here's your colleague, Zeleg.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42544	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, to Article 3. I have submitted an amendment to the bill on human cells and tissues aimed at further defining the humanist character of this law, as well as its application encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the construction of medical centres. The Serbian Progressive Party plans primarily to raise the level of trust in the health system in the Republic of Serbia and the level of health protection of its citizens, as well as the economic empowerment of the health system and the Republic of Serbia as a whole. The financial resources currently drained from the Republic Health Insurance Fund and abroad health centres, in which our citizens intervene because of the inability to work in domestic medical centres, would be savings, which is provided by the proposal for this law, aimed at modernising health centres and building new ones. The responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health have built, equipped the Clinical Centre in Nis in the past period, as planned in the next period of construction of the centre in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, a reconstruction and reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia began. The total value of the works in this centre is 69m euros, as well as the purchase of X knives that will begin on August 1st. I would also like to transfer more than 40,000 citizens of the youngest municipality in Belgrade, which is the city municipality of Surcin. It's the only city municipality that doesn't have a current home of health. We have a new representative facility, but we lack the equipment and obtaining home health status for the current health care facility, whose equipment would make the lives of all my fellow citizens in whose name I appeal to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42545	Thank you, colleague Zeleg. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42546	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Ministers with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the adoption of this law is certainly the best way to address problems in this area, because existing legal solutions and their inability to implement them have led to irregularities, and in order to regulate the area of human cells and tissues, as well as the organisation of health institutions to carry out this work, it is necessary to define first and foremost what is meant by the implementation of the said work, who can carry out this work, how it is done, which conditions need to be met by health institutions and who and how the law is supervised. The establishment of unique standards in this area leads to the establishment of a high level of quality system, and the adoption of this law will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42547	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Ljibuška Lakatoš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42548	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, we have a law that certainly contributes to health care and public care at the highest possible level. Article 3 of this Law correctly defines all terms and terms used in this Act. Taking, keeping and applying stem cells in the treatment of severely ill people in our country is at the beginning, but this law is an initiative to encourage the development of scientific and research institutions, the education of high-school staff, the development of highly specialised health institutions and the accompanying industrial branches, which would primarily affect the health status of the population, which is a priority for all of us, and thus affect Serbia's overall development. Good health to the population and high quality of life should be our goal. In the Old Paza Center of Health Prevention Center, the stands are organized to familiarize the population with the methods and methods of using stem cells in the treatment of many diseases. Unfortunately, for the time being, there are no conditions for more comprehensive work and public education because there is no adequate institution in Old Paz that could deal more intensively with this problem. In the near future, given the high investment in the area of health, I believe that Stara Paz could also have a health care facility at a secondary level of health care that would deal more seriously with this problem and thus contribute to the health promotion of the population. This would also be an incentive to further improve healthcare and catch up with the developed EU countries that we are seeking. In the voting day, SNS MPs will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42549	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42550	The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected Serbian citizens, a debate that takes several days each day to give some new reason for, but does not give any reason against the law. If, realistically, from our point of view, as someone who has already signed a donor card and who has so far given blood 34 times, I think I have the right to give my opinion, and the opinion is that this law is the best possible, perfect law, no better. Could there be any changes? Of course, in the future, in practice, if necessary, the Ministry of Health will adjust, if necessary, some major changes, make with the help of the Assembly, but today this is the best possible law, a law that removes all dilemmas and has only one goal – to extend life and provide assistance to those who need help. I want those citizens who may not have understood the best and who are just getting disinformation from colleagues who want to challenge everything that's good, and this isn't good, this is great, it's that just about whether someone will be a donor can plead and while he's alive, and among other things, it's enough that any of his family members will be against it, the donation won't be. Any one of us has a choice, he can tell any family member, and if he does, it won't happen unless there's a wish for a man to be a donor of those organs. What's more important is that we do this part of the most humane thing, which is to help those who expect help and those who can be helped. In the voting day, all those who do not vote for this, do not vote for their future, do not vote for their citizens, and simply as such, let them respond in front of their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42551	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42552	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill on human cells and tissues, which reads: "The humanist character of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the progress of medical institutions." One of the objectives of the bill is to promote giving, as well as raise citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, in line with the principles of traceability of human cells and tissues in treatment. With that in mind, humanistic character is a very important feature. In line with this bill, the promotion of voluntary donation is being carried out by the ministry. The competent ministry shall be obliged to provide citizens and professionals with all information relating to the use of human cells and tissues, including information on the process of giving and transplanting human cells and tissues to health institutions, as well as any other information that may be relevant. The humanistic character also comes to terms with the principles on which the bill is based, which is the principle of traceability. Follow-up is guaranteed from the donor to the recipient, but also when it comes to materials, materials and objects that come in direct or indirect contact with human cells and tissues. With all this in mind, the humanist character encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the progress of medical institutions. I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted in Article 3, which is achieved by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42553	Thank you, colleague Savkic. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42554	Thank you, Chairman. The intensity of my amendment is to point to this humanistic character of this law and generally to the humanistic character of the work that the Resolute Ministry is dealing with. Article 3 of this Law sets out the meaning of the terms that appear through the law itself, but if we were to look so closely at it, there would be only one letter in the law that serves to carry out justice and justice and to carry out all the jobs that stand before the ministry. However, it is followed by actions. Here, we saw yesterday about investing in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, investing eight million in Serbia in anything, let alone health care, is really a big deal. Not only in Serbia, it is a major investment for some European countries as well. However, we have seen this for the Clinical Centre of Serbia, but I must say that we also have similar situations in Subotica, as we hear throughout Serbia. 26 million dinars were provided in Subotica, and that is one exclusive news for Subotica and the whole north, 26 million dinars for project-technical documentation for the reconstruction of the hospital in Subotica, that is 35,000 squares, and that is one big news, I say again, for the whole north of Serbia and very exclusive. It's a job that's been going back to Subotic after decades. However, Minister, your work would be much easier for us in general in Serbia if we didn't have examples like this brought out by our colleague Martinovic this morning, when it comes to Commissioner Sabic and people like him. However, as hard as they try to stop Serbia, be sure we will not allow the MPs, together with you in the government and our president, to stop Serbia. As long as you do your job in this way and as long as you try to get Serbian healthcare back on track, be sure, you will have support in this respected home, but I am sure and support in the people, which is actually the most important element in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42555	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42556	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, we heard a comment just now from the opposition that doctors, means graduates from medical school, have nothing to ask for in Serbia because there is no job for them. That's just not true. Just now, the President of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Aleksandar Vucic has shared employment contracts, several out of a hundred diplomats, so the current people were not there, they will all be employed, not only that, but his proposal is that every six months 50 students, or 50 of the best graduates, to provide them with specialization and doctoral studies, which I think is the best thing that happens, the best investment in health care. And not only that, I said earlier, I will point out once again that more than eight billion dinars have been invested in healthcare from 2014 to 2018, by 2020 more than 150 institutions will be renovated. Then we will not be on the 20, but probably on the 12th place of the European Health Board. What needs to be pointed out is that when it comes to the therapeutic use of stem cells, there are high hopes of treating severe diseases such as leukemia, cancer, then severe forms of central nervous system degeneration disease, e.g. Alzheimer's or Parkinson's, heart disease and diabetes. The donation and receipt of human cells and tissues is based on the respect of priority interests for the preservation of life and health and the protection of basic human rights and dignity of the donor and recipient. Any person who has an indication of human cell and tissue transplantation, in accordance with medical criteria, and where medically justified, are provided, should be stressed, the same conditions for enrolment on the republican waiting list for human cells and tissues to be transplanted, as well as equal conditions for receiving human cells and tissues without discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42557	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42558	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Mr Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, since the basic reason for the adoption of this law is to increase the number of organ donations, as well as to increase the number of organ transplants successfully done with the reduction of waiting lists and the need to systematically regulate these areas, it is good that the process of granting consent to organ transplants is maximumly simplified and that unnecessary financial costs are avoided. The law sets the conditions for achieving standards of quality and safety of human organs for transplanting and working conditions and methods of organisation of the health system, all in order to achieve a high degree of protection and improvement of human health. When a national organ transplant programme, unique in Serbia's territory, is introduced, when clear procedures and procedures are established and a single information system is established, this area will be surrounded, but all of this requires the adoption of this very law, which will be taken care of by the biomedicine administration. It is also very important that the law accurately defines the conditions under which health institutions and institutions can carry out transplant operations, i.e. organ collection and define which health institutions can apply for jobs in that area, as well as what are the conditions that the human tissue bank should meet. The procedure for issuing authorisation of health institutions for carrying out human cell and tissue operations is simplified by this law, but a single information system is introduced. They reiterate that I am sorry that the opposition's MPs are misreading the provisions of the law and therefore, it seems to me that they deliberately bring fear and widespread panic because a human idea is trying to present it to the inhumane, and healthcare professionals are presenting it to organ traffickers. This law best affirms voluntary organ and tissue giving for human treatment as the highest achievement of humanity. This law needs to be passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42559	Thank you, colleague Djokic. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the bill lays down the conditions for achieving the quality and safety of human cells and tissues in humans, but at the same time, in a clear and unequivocal way, the law defines the role of health institutions in this area and sets out steps to achieve the basic objective of establishing a high level of security and security, in order to apply in the human population. What is very important to stress is that the provision of this law lays down the inalienable right for every citizen to decide whether to grant consent to the application of his organs and tissues through transplants for human purposes or to ban the use of them, which fully protects fundamental human rights. This creates conditions for promoting giving and raising the awareness of Serbian citizens, in the sense of giving with respect to the principles of traceability for the purpose of treatment. The intensive development of our health system which is evident, the modernisation of our health in general, our desire to move forward with modern achievements and standards of medical science and practice is the reason for the adoption of this law that will contribute even faster to Serbia's development but the application of this law depends primarily on us and our humanistic approach to the realization of it. That is why it is very important to put a human, character trait that characterizes the Serbian people into the role of donorship and thus help to preserve someone's lives and reduce problems in the treatment of severe and rare diseases. In voting day, SNS MPs will support this law because it encourages the development of a health system, provides better and health care for our citizens, which is one of the primary objectives of SNS policy on the way to its development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42561	Thank you, colleague Jancic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42562	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, has submitted an amendment to Article 3 for the proposal for a law on cell and tissue transplants. It is this Article 3 that speaks of numerous terms of institutes, which explain in detail certain parts of the law which, I would say, are essential and I would say they are revolutionary in the sense that for the first time they appear in some legal period. I'm going to mention two major institutes, it's the first registrar's stem cell register of haematopoiesis. That register, in my opinion, I think it will have a very great meaning primarily for those patients, those who expect a stem cell transplant of haematopiesis, but especially for those who do not have related donors. In this way I think that this waiting list will be reduced, therefore, to stem cells, and on the other hand, the procedure will be accelerated. The second principle that, I would say, is revolutionary is the principle of traceability. This principle of traceability, i.e. the monitoring of the entire process from the moment of cell giving, cell testing, cell storage, distribution and use itself, is a very important aspect not only of this law but of the health system's relations with the disease in this area. This principle of monitoring and the principle of traceability will actually enable complete monitoring, so the flow from the moment of giving to the moment of cell implantation. Essentially, the law will bring about a lot of changes, a lot of newspapers, which will contribute to better providing health care in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42563	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42564	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, quality and modern health certainly cannot be imagined in an unsettled society. If you want to have developed and modern society then it is necessary to operate health care at least that allows this development to continue in the future. In Article 3, I have proposed an amendment saying that the humanitarian character of this law practically implies the basis of the functioning of our society. No one in the debate today, in the public of Serbia, brings human character and the Serbian Government, the Serbian Parliament, you raise the level of humanity to one greater, more significant pedestal than the Serbian society was anyway. It can't be talked about just normative acts and humanism, and that the fact that Serbian society must be logistic, humanist certainly develops a health care system. You cannot talk about the humane relationship of society to the health system without investing for years in basic infrastructure facilities for the functioning of the health system. Not only from the Republic of Serbia's budget, where we allocate 25% for basic health insurance, i.e. health function. The government of the Republic of Serbia is practically investing in the development of new clinical centres. When the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, spoke about 60m euros to be invested in a clinical centre in Serbia yesterday, then simply neglect 40m euros to be invested in the Novi Sad Clinical Centre, 44m euros to be invested practically in the new Kragujevac Clinical Centre, 29m euros in the facility, 15m euros in equipment. Mr. Minister, when you were talking about the pictures in 2012. In the years that the Clinical Center in 2006 was supposed to be made in Nis, you today can go to Kragujevac and that in the place where the Clinical Center was supposed to function, you see an empty space. Thanks to you personally, this project has been practically reconstructed and the whole construction of new clinical centres works thanks to you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42565	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42566	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in order to have satisfied citizens, citizens must feel safe and safe. In addition to investing in the military and police, in the education system, important health investments are needed to make citizens feel safe. One such investment is an x-knife that was mentioned yesterday in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, another x-knife arrives in early August, and I will say that only one therapy, one x-knife treatment cost the state of Serbia about 20,000 euros. You don't need to specify any further how much we're going to save just by getting two x-leggeds. Then, as we have saved money and led by SNS and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia as heads of state, we also show through numerous investments in health care. One of these investments is at the KCS Emergency Centre, where it has been invested around 8.5m euros so far. A complete reconstruction of KCS after 40 or 50 years, where it was invested practically only in some cheap carpentry which almost the patient could not even notice, or in opening 340 square squares of ceramic tiles, we will invest in a complete reconstruction of KCS over 69m euros. I'm only talking about one clinic. When we add both Nis and Kragujevac and Novi Sad, we gain one picture of systemic investment in health, systemic care for the health of our citizens, in which direction the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working, in which SNS leads this society, and I am sure that citizens see it well and will know it in the right way and that prices and assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42567	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. According to the amendment, Dr. Muamer Bačevac called. Here you go, Dr. Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42568	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased to hear such positive tones of this extraordinary law that, as my colleague said earlier, is primarily a humanist turnover, to say, and a humanist approach and shows, indeed, the humanity of our society as a whole, but also a provision of the government with this minister that we really have laws in the field of health that are at the level of the most developed medical services of the European countries. In any case, humanity is something that is the central line and message of adoption of this law. Of course, the concern for Serbia's health system of this ministry is obvious, and this minister, I want to praise him on this occasion, who despite many of my activities, so I met him at the Clinical Centre this morning where we are currently doing some activities, that he is doing his job, so he is coming to do the profession, he is coming to deal with the even development of the health system in Serbia, not just large clinical centres, and, well, the best showing is both Novi Pazar and other smaller continents, and he is coming to deal with patients. I would like to remind you that in the last two terms, we have given the most specialization, the most subspecies, we are working on the staff, we are working on raising the entire health care in this country, and it is certainly also a great credit to the minister himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42569	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42570	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the donation of human organs reaches its full meaning when a particular organ dies or lives during the transplant method is transplanted into the body of a sick person, in order to continue normal life. The organs of the person who has been diagnosed with brain death must be transplanted before metabolic changes occur in the body. For heart transplants, the deadline is 24 hours, up to 24 hours after brain death. For liver transplants no longer than 10 hours, the deadline for kidney transplants is up to 48 hours after brain death. Thanks to the dedicated, safe and responsible policy of leadership in front of the Ministry of Health and you, Mr. Health Minister, whose implementation led to the halting of health failure, the placing of Serbian health on the European list according to the criteria of the health consumer index, where we have now moved from 36th place to 24th place, even in front of some EU countries, a total of eleven countries, for a short time we can talk to serious arguments today about the adoption of this extraordinary law that is on the agenda. As this law creates conditions for the promotion of human cell and tissue donations, i.e. raising the awareness of our citizens, of the importance of donation, the SNS will vote for this proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42571	National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42572	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with my colleagues from the ministry, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I have submitted another amendment to the 3rd member of the law on cells and tissues, with the desire to support this law again, precisely because it is necessary for our citizens of Serbia. Otherwise, as a donor in 2011, I signed a donor card wishing to make a contribution and be heard about it because I was then president of the municipality. Dear Minister, I can tell you as a man from Srlig, from a small municipality that I represent here in this Assembly, the United Peasant Party, I can tell you that you as a minister are one of the best back 20 years, precisely because much has been invested in our health care, in the apparatus, I think you should continue to do so. With laws like this, we have the opportunity to speed things up, to give even more meaning to these bill proposals that couldn't have been done before. Otherwise, we can all be at one point, we may need some medical attention, God forbid, some transplant, so this law gives us the opportunity to save our loved ones at some point in time. That's our goal and all of us here in the assembly and you as Minister. Also, as an MP, I supported our President Vukic when he was prime minister in the fight against corruption. You as Minister and our KCN director, Dr Zoran Radovanovic, are the most active in the fight against corruption, because you want corruption to be contained in every part of our Serbia. One thing that is very important to us all, KC has been opened back six or seven months, and it has been invested nearly 100 million for KC, but for all of us living in southeastern Serbia the development of Nis, health care in Nis is the most important thing. Now that I hear it's open to the helipad, it's something that's important to all of us, because it's southeast of Serbia, where Nis as a center has a great opportunity to give every bad thing, any bad thing, any part of Corridor 10, an accident. It's a big deal for all of us living in southeastern Serbia. I urge you once again, dear ministers, to support and small municipalities, to provide the specializations needed for our lives, the existence of our people. Our municipalities are small, devastated, demographically threatened, mountainous areas, and that's why we have to give such municipalities a chance on this specialization, and I've been talking about medical specialization, internally, and there's no such thing in Srlig. The situation is similar in other small municipalities. Once again, I call on all of you MPs to support my amendment, because I want this to be supported, Nis, the southeast, the small municipalities and the normal health care of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42573	The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42574	Thank you, Chairman. I will continue where I left off, on the previous amendment, in 2011, with 2,600 potential bone marrow donors and our great happiness in 2013, whether this was due to a change in health policy or a sudden development of our conscience, we have increased the number of donors and we have finally joined the world registry, so our patients also have acute leukemia, or those who need bone marrow, were able to find their donors in that world registry. That, on the other hand, reduced the cost of our health care and allowed drunk doctors to treat our patients here, because they did it successfully before that, only related to the donor. For all those unbelievable and those debaters, on the other hand, it's enough just to say that they should have looked at last night's "Dnevnik" RTS, I mean "Dnevnik 2." And to see some young people who are waiting or have already done a transplant, or they've finished the more important part, they've found donors and they've done a transplant. I think he's saying enough and saying a lot more than we're all gonna say here. I'm going to get involved and say that because of them and those young people, and this is already a topic for the Anti-Corruption Agency, I'm one of the founders and members of the Association of Patients with Acute Leukemia, treated patients, family and friends. I have to point out, it's very important, family and friends, because without family and friends, you can't even find a cure. What is the purpose of our association? The purpose of our association is that in it, above all, there are teachers and doctors who deal with acute leukemia, psychologists who will help all those people, especially young people, who are in a situation to wait for the donor and wait for their transplant.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42575	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now setting a break of a few minutes. Please be patient and let us all stay in the O.R. We'll start 18. A special session of the National Assembly, where we are scheduled to be addressed by Njeg's Excellency, Mr Demetris Iluris, representative of the representative home of the Republic of Cyprus. Thank you for your understanding and for your patience. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before I give my word to Dr Dragani Barisic, I would like to inform you that it is in agreement. 27th and Art. In the 87th century, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word is Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42577	I thank the esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, here, and today in the afternoon we have had the opportunity to hear the haters of each progress of Serbia, to make false in this room, and once again try to lead Serbian citizens astray. First of all, they talked about jobs and the Transplant Law and everything that was done, but certainly to challenge all the good that had been done in the past few years. On this occasion, I want to point out that this is a really good law. They repeat it once again, the law that will save many lives, primarily the lives of young people waiting for that call for salvation and I cannot understand those colleagues who are now gone, have extended the break, because they always have a lot of work to do, and thus also show that they have only a personal interest in them, and not to care about the citizens. So I want to remind them, and they'll probably hear that – what did all this Ministry do and what did the government of the Republic of Serbia do in the previous period? Well, in the previous period, over 2,000 workers were employed, only last year, which means over 2,000 health workers in over twenty-one health care institutions throughout Serbia, which means a new fit, new jobs and we want to keep young people in this country, not as they did. I was first on the 2002 list, waiting for work, because I wasn't like the director of the yellow company. In Krusevec, the only doctor who's been on the list for two years at the Employment Service just because I haven't responded to the political line, and that's why I'm here and that's why I'm still fighting them, and I'm not going to let them come back, and that's not even going to let the citizens of Serbia, because they don't forget all that desolation they left behind, not just in the health system, but in the economy, the economy, in all possible branches. So we go ahead, we'll vote the good laws, and we'll introduce them to the citizens and explain why they're good and in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42578	Thank you, colleague Barisic. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nenad Mitrovica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law in which I propose adding point 3. – the area of human cells and tissues has so far been governed by the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation of the Republic of Serbia Official Messenger No 72/09 as well as the sublegal acts adopted under the law. This law is partly in line with European legislation in this area which was in force at the time of its adoption. In fact, the applicable law governing the area of human cell and tissue transplants did not recognise the importance of defining and editing jobs in human cells and tissues for human application, as well as the conditions under which these jobs can be done, so the adoption of a new Bill on Human Cells and Tissues joined. Mr. Minister, if you'll allow me two sentences to look back at the Bujanovac Health House over which the founding rights are exercised by the Bujanovac municipality. It is that every month from home health comes the request of the municipality council of Bujanovac for the approval of money to pay a dozen workers in temporary and occasional jobs. The Municipality of Bujanovac transfers funds for material costs from which salaries are paid to the mentioned workers on temporary and occasional business even though there is no real need for their engagement. The money intended for material costs was able to purchase medical equipment that was missing from home health and thus to avoid sending patients to other health centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42580	Thank you, fellow Mitrovica. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42581	In order not to repeat myself, local self-government has to come out of the state auditor's office to make a record so that we can react.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42582	Thank you, Minister. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Radoslav Cokic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42583	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, in the debate, and about the amendment, we could hear a large number of doctors and their professional comments of this law and most of them support the law, and I even noticed that opposition doctors support this proposal, which is very encouraging not only for this job we have now, but also for other jobs because many difficult tasks await this country and President Vukic. I wouldn't speak as a man of profession because I'm not, but as a user of health services and unfortunately for certain reasons, I have a need to be very often in health centres, monthly required by a specialist for six months, and I can tell you, I have an observation back 20 years as it was in health care. We remember situations when the patient had to buy all the drugs, when he had to take everything to surgery, and we have a few years back, when the situation was completely different, when the facilities were being restored, when the power was restored. Someone just said, "The doctors are leaving." "What are we going to do with it?" "Well, the football players go away, everyone else goes away." Is this government guilty of being 10 times the salary of a doctor in the EU? It's not normal, some who created these conditions earlier are guilty of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42584	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here is my colleague Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42585	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, the citizens of Nis and southern Serbia need a new KC in Nis. With the start of the new KC in Nis at the end of 2017, Nis and Serbia received the most modern and modern clinic in this part of Europe. The new KC has 48,000 square metres and has better conditions to diagnose the disease for more than 2.5 million inhabitants who are gravitating this health facility. In the new KC complex, one of the largest operating blocks in Serbia and the Balkans with 16 state-of-the-art surgical halls of triangio halls, two emergency centres, was also built. Patients are located in comfortable double rooms with a bathroom, and there are 613 standard beds in the stationary area and facilities for intensive care, and for the first time is a separate organ transplant centre and monitoring the condition of patients in the most modern conditions for the care of the population, but also for the work of medical professionals. The fact is that previous regimes headed by a "yellow company" were not interested and did not care if this capital facility ended. With SNS coming to power, it's realized. They were simply busy with themselves, their own businesses, so much for their concern for the citizens and their health.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42586	Thank you, colleague Mrdakovic Todorovic. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's your colleague Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42587	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned in previous reports on the subject of this law, it is very important to do everything possible to improve health conditions. It is also essential to care for patients who are not only a matter of expertise, but also the ethics and moral codes of developed social awareness of the modern state. Accordingly, I believe that the Law on Human Cells and Tissues is making progress in this area. This law applies with special attention to the deceased cell and tissue donor, with a dignified attitude towards the donor family, i.e. the appearance of the deceased after the necessary procedure has been carried out, which is very important from the above principles. The Law on Human Cells and Tissues is governed by the special principles of medical justification and security, and as such, it is very important in terms of further development of health and overall progress of the Republic of Serbia. This law lays down business in this health area in more detail, regulates the issue of permits and gives criteria for human cell and tissue donors, which are also very important aspects. For all of these reasons, I believe that the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues is extremely important in further improving patient protection and care and the continuation of comprehensive reforms implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42588	Thank you. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, the SNS continues to turn Serbia into a better place to live with this set of health laws. Speaking of my earlier amendment, I cited an example of how the health system is being restored in the city where I come from, which is in Novi Sad, and now I wanted to show with several examples how the health system is improving in Serbia. However, I will skip a whole series of examples, prompted by a desire to look back at everything we have heard in these two days in the congregation. My esteemed colleague mentioned earlier that opposition health workers also support this law, as our colleague, who in the first day of the debate, really embodyed the correctness and necessity of the adoption of this law, but seems to have silenced him in haste, because he is neither present nor today to continue defending this law in the same tone. What I, as an ordinary citizen, can be said by the user of health services, which is that this law was not written by politicians, it was neither written by the opposition nor by the position. It was written by experts, but then we have experts on experts who must certainly cast a shadow of everything this government does and what this government does but forget, and I have not forgotten, I come from Novi Sad, near the city where the Institute is located, remember the "Kamenica 2" affair of how many lives lost in 10 years of building an extremely significant one, and thanks to the 2016 elections and the takeover of power in the province by SNS, "Kamenica 2" is doing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42590	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Don't mind me, it's limited time to two minutes, but everyone finish the sentence. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, fellow Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42591	The amendment to the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues is primarily a success towards humanization, is primarily directed towards the human line, so I will show through one example of practice, because I think that examples from practice best speak about the depth of this matter and the essence of this matter. Since much is said here in various ways and at least in terms of the attitude of the religious communities and the SPC, I will use one example, and I will mention the 2011 SPC's attitude as a good example of the Serb church's behaviour and the good example of the clergy. In 2011 The Episcope of the Sabački Lavrentije was the first, as the first minister of the SPC to sign the donor's card and bequeath the organs. Immediately thereafter, 35 priests of the Sabbath diocese signed donor cards, which was a good example of what to do. In 2013 in Soko City, 78 believers signed donor cards and they are people who are pretty much with young people on the move and it is a symbol of one humanity and charity. The Episcope of Lavrentius once said the essence and just to read it – leave the organs on the ground, you do not need them in the sky.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42592	The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here's a colleague of Yokic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42593	Honorable ministers with associates, I must admit that this law is very difficult and that it is convenient for manipulation and that all those who do not love this country, who love only power, are very skillfully trying to manipulate the people, with the opinion of the people. It is therefore very important to establish communication. You're doing good. So, there are forms that you have introduced and expanded and come up with communication with the people. First form, it's an open door to the home of health and hospitals. A lot of people who don't have health care have come to find out about their problems. This form should be used and explained to the people by this law. Second form, they are visited by local communities, mostly by villages on Sundays, on Saturdays, holidays, etc., where next to these examinations with the people should be spoken to, people should be spoken to. The third thing, the most important thing in the villages is to open up, by local communities, to create conditions that doctors can live, as you did in the most beautiful village in the Divics and create conditions for the doctor to be there for 24 hours. So, simply, this nation that was against the railroad 100 years ago, it's easy to manipulate and try to manipulate it into being against this law that is very modern, very difficult, which is for the benefit of all of us. I'd love to, and I'm sure you'll continue, because healthcare until you came to the head was in a very difficult position, not to say in fat crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42594	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dr Desanka Repac submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here's my colleague Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42595	Thank you. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates. We are talking about very life-threatening laws these days, and even today we are promoting the necessity of donation of tissues and organs, including a senseless legacy, because human organs represent the necessary resource in the treatment of critical patients and severe diseases that destroy organs. Transplants around the world have also accepted a successful and successful way of treating patients who have experienced irrevocable cancellation of functions for the life of the necessary organ. This method was started a century ago. She started a corneal transplant and developed into a medical procedure to save and extend human life. Transplantation is the only area of medicine that requires active participation by citizens. Donating organs is a humanity that costs nothing, and the benefits are invaluable. Today, nowhere in the world has any topic been praised so much, present and represented, as a donorship. With this amendment, I want to encourage the affirmation of humanity in the Republic of Serbia, that we all find together a formula that will allow the Republic of Serbia to come to the very top of Europe's donorship. The humanity that the Republic of Serbia has, the winning mentality, informing citizens, knowledge, we must not miss the chance to extend our lives to a sick man. We need to join the society of human countries. I'd like to say another sentence yesterday from the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukitch. Health care is a picture of Serbia's standard. I would add that health is a national capital. Thank you to President Alexander Vukic and the Government for economic empowerment and great successes and investments in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42596	Thank you, Dr. Repac. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the humanist approach to this law brings me back a little bit to the past, brings back the memory of human organ transplant pioneers. It doesn't have to be from a medical profession to know about a South African cardio surgeon, Dr. Christian Bernard, or a professor from Houston, Michael Debachi, who are synonyms for fighting for human lives. There's a lot of gray heads here. I hope they remember as well as I do that we had the first heart transplant in 1967 as the finals of the World Cup in football. Literally, it was celebrated every day, although the first patient lived only 40 days, it was a huge victory. It wasn't an extension of life, it was a kidnapping from death, and that was very important. For the first patient to live for 19 years in 1968, only four years later, a patient with a new heart lived for 23 years. I had a chance to know Duško Vlach from Elemir, my fellow citizen, from the municipality of Zrenjanin, the first Serb to whom his heart was transplanted and I remember his forgiveness from the city, with little chance that he would ever return from America, and came back and played on dances for several years his guitar in his rock band. Today only after 50 years, patients with new organs are healthy people. Not only did he save his life, but he improved his quality of life, and that is to win science and progress. Let's just look into the future. Can we assume what's going to happen in 50 years, over the next 50 years? Of course, it's hard to predict. Is that why we have the right to stop what is now called salvation? The parliamentary mandate cannot stand between life and death. The vote for this law is a voice for life and it's the only way to understand it and that's the only way it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42598	Thank you, colleague Krlic. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42599	I thank the chairman. Significant investments that have been invested in the House of Health "Dr. Djordje Kovacevic" in Lazarevec have significantly contributed to creating better conditions for the work of employees, as well as to improving the quality of the provision of health services to our citizens. In the home of health, there is a counselling for preschool children who are very visited, then a developmental counselling center, diabetes counselling, for pregnant women, then a screening center for early breast cancer detection thanks to the Government of Japan that donated the mammogram. On a proposal from the Ministry of Health, preventive checks shall be carried out and on Sundays well visited. In addition to mammography, an ultrasound examination of the abdomen, thyroid glands, ophthalmologists, interns, and a number of others is performed. What is significant, the home of health also organises checks in rural areas such as measuring blood sugar, measuring blood pressure, ECG and many others. In order to ensure more comprehensive health care for all our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42600	Thank you, colleague. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Professor Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42601	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most important thing is that when a person's body extends someone's life, it also affects the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the general medical conditions, especially the mental health and life of each individual citizen. If Doctor Dubravka Stojanovic had enjoyed quality general medical conditions, she would not have enjoyed 21.7. In the year 2018, I quote: "The same elites that made war in Serbia are in their interest to forget responsibility." There are no serious historians, even in the West who do not claim that the US, the European Community, the Vatican, have even one representative of the NATO Pact apologized to Serbian citizens these days. She was an exponent of this policy through George Soros, and today she is a professor of Dr Dubravka Stojanović von Soros. It proves through that statement that it did not enjoy the general medical conditions that affect the implementation of this law and thus the general mental health of each individual, as well as the mental health of Professor Dubravka Stojanović von Soros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42602	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Becic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42603	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are having a discussion today about a legal solution that saves people's lives and you can only get support in the National Assembly, but if you can comment on me, Mr. Minister, how is it possible that you, as you build and invest in improving the quality of health services during DS, disappears an entire hospital? Here we see, the General Hospital of Vrbas in 2012, we have three buildings on the poster, a pre-election poster of DS. We also have funds from the Capital Investment Fund, but we still have only one building and one meadow in which only one hole was dug by the then province's prime minister for the cornerstone, and there's nothing since this hospital in 2012. So, this is just another proof that during the robbery of Mr. Bojan Pajtic and the Capital Investment Fund, equipment and expensive equipment for hospitals in Serbia disappeared, but a whole complex of buildings also disappeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42604	Thank you, colleague Becic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42605	The Honorable Chairman, Ministers with Associates, here we are at the end of the debate in the details of the law which, I believe, and hopefully everyone else, is the only hope for many, hope for a better life and health and only treatment. Many patients daily follow a list of themselves, waiting for the appropriate organ of a potential donor. They themselves are aware that the new law will not provide much more donors overnight, but they hope that in Serbia they will begin to significantly change their awareness of donations. According to the Biomedicine Authority, we now have six donors per million inhabitants, while Slovenia is 25 to 30, while Croatia broke out to the very top of Europe and has 40 donors per million inhabitants. In Serbia today, the most people in need of a kidney are on the transplant list, among the life-threatening, which is 750. With the heart and liver, counting the cornea that the most candidates have, the authorities in Serbia are currently waiting for about 2,000 patients. At present, this law that we are discussing is intended to move from informed to assumed consent, which means that in the event of a brain death, we would all be potential donors, except for those who pleaded to life against or at the time of their death, their family does so on their behalf. Patients waiting for the organ and living in the hope that it will happen soon, without any reserves believing in our brilliant doctors and our health care, believe in Health Minister Zlatibor Loncar, our Government and President Alexander Vukic. I hope all the citizens saw our president yesterday at the moment he was visiting the clinic center with the Minister of Health, so that's another proof of how much care we care about every man in our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42606	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42607	Mr Marinkovic, respected ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, waited 50 years for Serbia to invest in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. For those 50, 60 years, it's almost just a replaced carpentry and that certain rooms have been painted. It's an institution, I'll remind you, in which every day a large number of our citizens enter and meet with health care. It is important that better conditions are in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, it is important that the rooms are cleaner and neater and that we continue with better equipment and staff training. We will continue to invest as SNS in all those homes of health, hospitals, hospitals and simply not remain on the case at the Clinical Center that now exists in Nis. Indeed, Minister Loncar, I was pleased with the news that yesterday was in all Serbian media that Serbia will receive a new, magnificent clinical centre in Serbia over the next three years and that work on the arrangement of Serbia's Emergency Centre will be completed by New Year's Eve. In the reconstruction of the Serbian Clinical Centre, the state will invest 69m euros, already invested 8.5m euros. They're encouraging the news that we're gonna get two H knives. The equipment we'll get for the Clinical Center of Serbia's Emergency Centre, the construction of a new H knife centre will cost us 800 million dinars. This is an example of how responsible the government, how responsible political party, how responsible SNS takes care of its citizens, takes care of our patients, because indeed our citizens' lives are our citizens' lives, we really care about our citizens' health. I've had a real chance, and that's how I end up, and we're going into another week as we discuss very important laws. I would invite all these opposition critics to put themselves in shoes, put themselves in the skin of those patients who are now lying in our clinics waiting for a new organ. These are laws that go beyond high politics. These are laws that take care of our citizens' lives. Let's take a chance. By adopting these laws, we reduce waiting lists. We're actually getting, we're giving all the patients in this Serbia a new chance of a new life for a new organ. I call on all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the positions and opposition to support these three truly high-quality legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42608	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42609	Thank you. Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 3 of the Law, which adds Article 3 which reads - the humanist character of this law encourages Serbia's overall development with a special reference to improving the health system. The stem cells are not specialized cells and can be transformed into any other type of cell in an organism that has been destroyed during the aging process, disease, injury or similar condition. They are the source of all cells of the body, and this ability to regenerate damaged tissues makes them unique in medicine. The stem cells can be divided into different categories depending on their origin, into adults that are further divided into bone marrow stem cells and stem cells from the umbilical cord, embryonic stem cells that provide the most potential, or can develop into any other type of tissue or cell, but only for research purposes, and not for therapeutic purposes. The stem cells have a wide range of applications in medicine. Many are diseases that can be treated by stem cells. First of all, malignant tumors, which are a set of diseases that characterize irregular and progressive cell growth with an uncontrolled division that have the ability to penetrate into other tissues. The cure of choice is just stem cells. Blood diseases, such as leukemia, are also a cure for choice are stem cells. Sugar disease, regardless of whether it's type one or type two, the cure choice is just stem cells. Cardiac anaemia, valaemia, circytosis, chronic granumatosis, heriditor thrombocytopenia, various disorders of the immune system, syndromes, etc., all are a cure for stem cell selection. The disease of the chromosomes, like the trisomy of 21 pairs, is the cure of choice just as the stem cells.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42610	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Does anyone want a word? Stanija Kompirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42611	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of this law will create conditions for raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as organising jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, and will allow the Republic's waiting list to be reduced for individual tissues, and the number of patients on the waiting list to be reduced. The arrangement of this area will have a positive impact on patients who are waiting for tissue transplants, will provide better results of transplants and progress in medical care, and my anomist in Article 3 of this law is heading towards improving medical protection. The health system is one of the most important factors in the survival of the Serbian people at KIM. That's why our President Alexander Vukic and the government are doing a lot of work to strengthen the institutions. Strengthening health along with education is the right line of survival between us and our people at KIM. Visiting our President Aleksandr Vukic, the Health Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica gained the status of the Clinical Hospital Centre, it received new scanners and modern appliances, which shows how much they care for us and provide assistance in the KIM area. This attracts the neighbours of Albanians and everyone else to be treated in our health system, because it strengthens relationships, brings normalities and makes us closer. The opening of a new hospital in Pasjan enabled the birth of new lives, and adapted health homes in Gorazdevec, Zubi stream and Zvečana were arranged. So the state works and strengthens the health system in KIM, so health is an important factor and we take care of it in our space as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42612	Thank you, colleague Compirović. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42613	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, my amendment refers to a distraction to give a special consideration to the increase of medical institutions, i.e. the number and implementation of the medical institute network plan, which are defined by the development strategy which, ultimately, the Ministry of Health is carrying out and with increasingly efficient work. According to the strategy today, we have 375 institutions with a total number of beds projected at 38,500 with a number of 114,000 health employees. What's important today is that this government and this ministry have shown that the really failed projects that we've had were unable to implement that started project solutions, this ministry, this government and this minister are obviously able to finish, like KC in Nis, who didn't even lay the foundations by 2009. But it took a Mr. Vukic to come and take responsibility together with the SNS, to simply Mr. Loncar as a resolute minister lay the foundations and build such objects and equipment in the way the profession sought. And it is very important that we here today hear certain presentations of MPs who are constantly declaring themselves to be some people who need to say something about how it should look in health care. Well, I guess doctors ask themselves something about it, I guess they have as professional people the right to say in public what is the model on which to write the laws, and they have said their word, by this law they have given their solutions and, therefore, it is up to us MPs to really defend the professional proposals that come to us here in the form of legal solutions. What is most important is that the state will invest in health and that there is nothing more important than human life and this is being led by Mr. Vukic and the Government of Mrs. Brnabic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42614	Thank you. Thank you so much, Dr. Tomic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Vladimir Petkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42615	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the Law on Human Cells. The aim of the proposal for a law on cells and tissues is to regulate this area in accordance with the highest medical standards, to address the shortcomings we have had in practice so far and to simply simplify the system of functioning. The area of cells and tissues is developing extensively and it is necessary to pass a law that will accompany these changes and improve the opportunities for our citizens to be treated best. It is important to point out that in order to go to cell transplants, citizens of the Republic of Serbia must go abroad where these procedures cost about 60,000 euros, with hospital costs of several hundred thousand euros. Now we have a situation that we'll be able to do the same with us. First of all, in a clear and precise way, it is arranged that health institutions can apply for such work in this area. Treatment with stem cells has been shown to be one of the most successful forms of treatment for the most severe diseases in 90% of malignancies. An example of good practice is VMA which has done close to a hundred transplants of this kind and in this way we want to show that this law is very human and very necessary. What I want is to invite all Members of Parliament to support the amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42616	Thank you, colleague Petkovic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42617	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the National Assembly is a place where we should put our different views on certain matters. I would understand that there are financial laws here, in the area of law, in various other areas, so I would also understand certain brutal discussions of my fellow MPs that they had about this law. These brutal discussions, when it comes to law like this, I can't call it politics any other way than mere politics. My dear fellow MPs who brutally attack one of these laws do not think that sickness and accident do not always happen to others. I can do it for those of you. Don't give it to God, who they care about a lot. So when they think so and think that because of the existence of one of these laws and the possibility of applying one of these laws, someone's life that they care about is saved, when they rise up again and discuss this law, let them finally keep that in mind. I don't have a dilemma. I will uphold this law. Friends who don't support it is their right, but don't bring your discussions down to normal politics because sometimes it can come back to you in the worst way possible and the way you don't expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42618	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Olivera Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42619	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues should create a positive impact on Serbian citizens as it simplifies the process of giving consent to the donation of tissues and on the other hand provides the possibility for every full-time citizen of Serbia to ban in writing or oral form the donation of their tissues, as well as the possibility of family members to plead unless the person has declared themselves to his life. This law best performs promotion and affirmation of voluntary organ and tissue giving in order to treat other people. A large number of Serbian citizens are currently awaiting organ transplants. Some estimates are that about 30 people die annually because of the lack of organs in Serbia. The adoption of this law will open a new chapter of health modernisation in Serbia, and the fact is that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, daily, invests in modernising and developing health care by building and renovating hospitals, clinical centres and health homes throughout Serbia. The job is to keep young doctors in Serbia. And this year 100 of the top medical graduates got a job, and I'm happy to say that among them are two young Leskians, my fellow citizens. It is a responsible policy led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So this amendment of mine goes in the direction of supporting such a responsible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42620	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kostic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42621	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, People's MPs, I must stress that it has never been issued for health care again, so today one-fifth of the Republic of Serbia's budget stands out for these very purposes. Just to remind, a few months ago, a bone marrow transplant and a sterile block opened at the Clinical Centre of Serbia. It's the third institution of this guy next to the Institute for Mother and Child and VMA. The health ministry and Serbia's Clinical Centre invested 90m dinars in a new centre. About 40 bone marrow transplants are performed annually in Serbia in patients suffering from malignant and autoimmune diseases. By opening this centre due to better working conditions, the number of transplants is constantly increasing. Every kind of transplant, just to tell you, dear opposition colleagues, costs between 150 and 300,000 euros abroad. And the same kind of intervention will now be done with us at four to five times lower prices with the help of our Serbian doctors, who by their expertise and skill mate world experts. Mr. Minister, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Sokobanja family, whose son, at the age of 17, had an accident to suffer from malignancies, but because of their parents' inconsistencies as donors, had to be referred to treatment precisely for bone marrow transplants abroad. Keep working like this, and the citizens of Serbia will always stand by you and support you in their efforts.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42622	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42623	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SDS, we wanted to support these bill proposals and to support the dedicated and truly quality work of the Ministry of Health and Minister of Health, Mr Zlatibor Loncar, who definitely has a clear strategy for the development of health in our country, which follows the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic when it comes to modernising the country and defining and achieving the highest level of quality of life for our citizens. Of course, that this kind of development of health and this kind of visible thing, which I will remind only my colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can be seen every day, at every step of the way. Many of my colleagues mentioned, of course, that from the Clinical Centre in Nis, KCS, the stone foundation for the clinical center in Užica, the diagnostic centre in Novi Pazar, it speaks of the fact that the Ministry of Health is not only engaged, and is not focused solely on the quality of the health system in the capital, Belgrade, but also on the level of development and security of quality health care throughout Serbia. It is exactly what Serbian citizens see daily, that building infrastructure, building highways, the first quarter of this year 4.5 growth in our country is also following what Minister Zlatibor Lončar is doing with his team, which is building clinical centres, which is buying the most modern and qualitative equipment. It could not have been realized that there was no vision of the then prime minister, now President, Mr. Vukic in economic development, in economic empowerment, and then empowering all those segments of social life in our country that are needed to make our country more modern and to make our citizens more decent, better and more quality of life. For these two years, Minister Zlatibor Loncar has shown that, in addition to knowing the health system and clear goals in this domain, he can build, he can work, what is very important to us, selects the best fit in the Ministry itself, but also in all those health organizations, institutions that are important for the functioning of this, perhaps the most significant sector and pillar of our country's development. So, in any case, the SDS supports this kind of strategy to implement this strategy, to grow and develop the health system, to health care, especially what I have left since the beginning of today's session, what the minister said is that we are one of the few countries where health care and health services are still free. This suggests that the government of the Republic of Serbia has remained on the path of a socially responsible government, which, in addition to economic development, new employment, new investment jobs, the creation of one of the best possible business environments, the business environment in our country, takes care of those who are the most vulnerable and take care of the achievement of those most important, most important human rights from the human rights corpus, which, of course, are respected and have the highest possible level in our country. These are every man's right to health care, every man's right to work, to have a normal and good job and to meet that goal that the prime minister defined a few years ago, where ministers, Minister Zlatibor Loncar, are helping him, which is that every citizen of ours has good quality and good health care and that every citizen of ours can get a job, can and has a chance to work, and no citizen of ours gets hungry in his bed at night and can provide through that approach decent and dignified work, a normal life for his family. It is the one Serbia we want to create together, Serbia with equal chances, Serbia with dynamic development, but Serbia that will never forget the most vulnerable groups of its citizens, where everyone will have the right to treatment, where everyone will have the right to work and where everyone will have all those rights defined by the highest EU standards and most developed countries in the world. It is this right of European Serbia, modern Serbia, economically strong Serbia, Serbia with a strong health system, responsible social policy, a strong army, and that is what we have created and what we here in parliament together as allies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will persist in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42624	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42625	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, the existing law has helped to ensure that the area of human cells and tissues is not regulated, because it is not a clearly defined institution that could be a human tissue bank and that, on the basis of clear criteria, would carry out the above mentioned tasks, leading to the absence of the same. With a clear definition and precision of the conditions in this area, with regard to space, business, equipment and staff, we would remain behind long-standing bad practice that health institutions doing certain jobs in this area cannot apply for authorisation to carry out these tasks. So the area in the Republic of Serbia is completely unregulated, without clear rules and precise conditions. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues first defines in a precise and clear way which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues, including any conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit. With the precise definition of all the terms the bill refers to, the humanistic character of this law is stressed and it improves the functioning of the health system in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42626	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42627	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The law on human cells and tissues, to put a special accent on improving conditions in medical institutions, but also on the human aspect of this law. There are a large number of patients in Serbia who are expecting a transplant, a large number of patients who expect that most important call in life. A call that will save someone's life or improve the quality of someone's life. This area of medicine is developing very quickly and provides a really great opportunity for healing, but unfortunately, which Serbia faces is a small number of donors and long waiting lists. What is very important is to point out that after the adoption of these regulations, Serbia will have access to countries that have common waiting lists and will have greater opportunities to save its patients. This unique information system will provide information and insight into what authorities are available, what potential patients can get these organs, but also the way of the body to the very donation until the moment of transplantation. Since 16 times the chance to need an organ, given how much we have the chance to be donors, is very important to break the prejudices that relate to donations. The topic is really sensitive, but it is important to point out that it is the family that will make the final decision, when it comes to organ donation, but also that a team of experts will participate in this whole process to decide on the whole procedure. I have the impression that even through social networks, information that is actually semi-information or misinformation is easier to convey, and it is very important that it speaks out loud about it, about the whole process and that given what this law provides, there really is no room for doubt or for any abuse and that it really needs an accent to be on that one human and noble act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42628	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42629	Thank you, Chairman. I want to refer to my distinguished colleague Milena Turk's discussion, who said there was a lot of incorrect information that didn't just appear on social networks, but in all the media in the country, when it comes to the bill I'm talking about. There I would only point out that I fully support the government's initiative of Minister Nenad Popovic to pass a law that would regulate exactly this kind of false news that appears. We had several concerns and very high-quality discussions about this relationship, let's say, my colleague from the SRS spoke about the relationship between our Serbian Orthodox Church and the implementation of this law. The discussion was very good, but by analysing the bill's proposal, by analysing the views of the church and the patriarch himself, we cannot find any opposition when it comes to the implementation of this law. My personal example is that in 2011, I also signed a card, with the permission of the Metropolitan Amphilochy of Radovic, as many, many of my colleagues have done, so as to do so, I think we can talk about having a full social consensus, when it comes to this bill. This government of the Republic of Serbia is the most important human life. The most important are people, and it is not by chance that we have a proposal for this law at this session, which is what we are talking about saving human lives, what we are talking about is the improvement and possibility of improving the health system in the Republic of Serbia and the possibilities for saving lives in this way. This is just a feed on what President Vukic started a few months ago. This is the problem of demographicism in our country, the problem and the goal that we need to achieve, and that is how to be one million more, and not to look calmly at being 30,000 or 35,000 less, and that when it comes to the security of traffic or saving people's lives through the implementation of this law, we look at it as random passersby, thinking that the demographic problem is solved by itself, so it won't solve itself. So the state must have a clear resolution strategy and this bill speaks in favour of us having this clear strategy and that it will be part of the process. Minister Stefanovic was with his proposal for a traffic safety law that would improve the possibility of saving lives in that domain. Minister Lonchar is here today and we're talking about saving lives. I'll tell you about the analysis, so the statistics that say that 90% of those killed in car accidents are human error. That's what can be fixed. We have to do this as a state, and we're going to do it to prevent them from working. We are also dealing with these issues when it comes to this bill, and I think we should hear every critical thought in any case, but we should think about respecting both the opinion of our colleagues and the opposition, to talk about it, but in one reasoned, serious way, so that the greatest benefit from it is from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this law is very easy for us to come to this minimum of consensus, because it is about humanity, because it is about the highest possible interest of our country, our nation, the citizens of our country and, in any case, we want to respect, as we have done so so far, Minister Zlatibor Loncar himself, and the opinion of the majority and opinion of the opposition and the opinion of the Serbian Orthodox Church, but why not the other confiscations that function and represent the citizens of our country, professional associations, experts, individuals dealing with this matter. I am sure that we will jointly vote this law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of our nation, for the benefit of our country and for the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42630	On what grounds is she a colleague? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws it out of place. No, no, no, He didn't even mention the name, he just mentioned some discussion. She could have been referring to anyone. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42631	Comrade Arsic, I respect your diplomatic activities as vice-president of the National Assembly, but to understand and not to think that I want to abuse something that no SRS MP ever does. When it comes to the discussion, I have to use Article 107 and Article 27 to personally explain things to you because you were not due to your other official duties at the session. Now, Mr Arsic, if I were right to report to the Rules of Procedure, it is also a fact that something must be done as a National Assembly to grow, so as not to offend the dignity of the Assembly, which is that this law has the consent of our traditional SPC, as well as of all other traditional religious communities in Serbia but under certain conditions. This condition is that both the recipient's life and the life of the organ donor is not threatened in any way. The church can't deal with the medical profession. It is the church that will always say that mercy, benevolence, humanity in action is something that a man, as a godless being, should at all times have in mind and everyone with awareness of helping his neighbor does a good deed. However, the question is raised, Mr. Arsic, if you are now interested in this subject, so you can't answer that question when she didn't give the medical profession to the end, and she's not a traditional religious community, and what is that moment when the complete death of a man comes? Our church, as the heart is being transplanted today and it helps many people whose lives are at stake, specifically forbids it to be done with a living man, but only when life is over, and that is why we fear that such a situation is not being abused, because this law gives that possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42632	My colleague Jovanovic, I really don't know where I broke the Rules of Procedure, nor have you been called, nor has your discussion, nor does anyone under this law have the right to kill anyone, and you just said that. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. You have no right. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about your injury to the Rules of Procedure? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No, but I am right about the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Well, I can't break the Rules of Procedure twice when I answer to you. Don't say that. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42633	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know the current finding of opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija. They're such that they limit opportunities for normal lives, for people to function in all their segments. Of course, these opportunities also manifest negatively to the functioning of health institutions located in a network of health institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Nevertheless, the health system works, and measures and activities are being taken to improve health care and quality of services to patients. In this context, I point out that the transformation of health institutions in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, which currently exist in Kosovo and Metohija within the health system of the Republic of Serbia, form seven health institutions and this: Kosovo Mitrovica Clinical Hospital Centre, Pristina Clinical Hospital Centre, Gjilana Health Centre, Štrbce and Gorazdevac Health Centre, Apotheka Kosovaska Mitrovica and the Public Health Institute in Kosovo Mitrovica. The current period of functioning of health institutions has shown that some of the existing institutions have been dysfunctional and that institutional integration will create conditions for better and better quality health care. In particular, the fact that of the total number of employees, of about five thousand, 600 are working in central Serbia, and they are receiving earnings in KIM institutions, which is an illogical solution and is a barrier to new employment. In order to eliminate this anomaly, it is planned that this category of employees should be administratively verified in the institutions in which they work and that so many new jobs will be opened after their integration into health institutions where the network of healthcare institutions has been employed and transformed. In view of the above, I am taking the opportunity, dear Minister, to ask you when is expected...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42634	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42635	... Completion of the transformation of health institutions to KIM and the resolution of work-legal status of category... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42636	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42637	It's already been sent to you, so it'll come to you. We also want to hear your opinions from the field, to say the right information that is necessary to you, to fit all that data, to do one final analysis, and to hire people, the ones that are really necessary in the system, to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42638	Thank you. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) College of Filipovski, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42639	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are for me the most important humanitarian character of this law, because it offers the opportunity for a patient who is waiting for organ transplants, and there are approximately two thousand of them in Serbia, to continue his life. So this is undoubtedly a law that will allow us to have more donors, to have more transplants and to make it difficult for citizens to have a new life this way. Certainly, the humanitarian character of this law enables further development of medical centres in Serbia, which is also the reason for the submission of my amendment. Because the proposal for this law on human cells and tissues defines, among other things, what health institutions can apply for jobs in the area. Given that this area of medicine is developing intensively and offers great treatment opportunities, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law, as I also believe that health institutions doing these jobs will provide better conditions in line with modern opportunities in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42640	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Grubor, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42641	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of this law will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as for organising jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, which, in all stages, respecting the principles of traceability, will ultimately improve the quality of medical services in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, i.e. with EU regulations in this area. The proposed solutions in this law will affect society in general, as the establishment of a clear and transparent system in the area of cells and tissues will increase confidence in this system, which includes the development of altruism, which is an important factor in tissue donation, because tissue transplantation is primarily based on the principles of voluntary and unpaid giving, in order to ensure quality and safety, both cells and tissues. The humanistic character of his colleagues in the ocular ward of the losin hospital, Dr. Alexander Isaković, deserves special attention and commendation, as they operate from 350 to 600 patients with cataract disease during one year and return them to normal life, to see and function normally. All these interventions are done by one man with his team, using acrylic flexible lenses that can be implanted through a small eye cut. The Republic Fund has provided sufficient material for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which was not possible in the previous regime. By forming a blood bank of umbilical cords and by introducing modern techniques and processing of stem cells of haematopoiesis, cryoconservation and storage of haematopoiesis stem cells, faster conditions will be provided for finding suitable donors for the needs of patients in Serbia, since the transplantation of parent... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42642	Thank you, colleague Grubor. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Radičević's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42643	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 3. The bill, with the aim of further defining the law, and to point out the importance of raising health institutions to a higher level by constant care and investment in health care. In order to achieve that, it is necessary to include local self-government in the modernisation, in addition to the ministry. Given that health homes are in the jurisdiction of local self-government, only good co-operation with the Ministry of Health can provide good conditions for the work of doctors, as well as good conditions for treating patients. The first condition that needs to be met is that the health homes look decent, that the rooms meet the standards prescribed. That local self-government has recognised the problems of health homes also confirms that it is constantly investing in health homes in Serbia. The local self-government in Aleksinc is currently funding a complete reconstruction of the Zitkovec Health House premises, which means replacing old and up-to-date carpentry with a new PVC carpentry, replacement roof covering, complete insulation of facades and ceilings, replacement of complete installations. The value of the works is slightly higher than eight million dinars. Only such investments can provide prerequisites for providing quality health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42644	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Studenka Kovacevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42645	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates, were already talking about the progress made in the field of health, in the part relating to the conditions in which healthcare is provided. The hospital renovation project is indeed a major step forward, and an even greater step seems to be by obtaining the most modern equipment that will allow our citizens to be treated abroad, instead of abroad, in Serbia, which will be an economic aspect for both the benefit and the budget, as well as for citizens themselves, because some interventions will cost significantly less. There's been a lot of work going on at the maternity home. I mention this because we have come to the conclusion in our conversation with women on the subject of increased birth rate that conditions in birth Halls have in some way affected the decision to give birth. As one of the factors considered when making a decision on the birth of another child very often is the rapper's previous experience during childbirth, so mothers who were satisfied with the conditions in birth Halls and in general at the maternity ward, starting from a positive experience, had a barrier less than those with worse experience in terms of ambience. Given that we're in favour of a higher birth rate, we should make maximum improvements in the terms of each maternity ward. Although I don't think it's the main factor that affects making this kind of decision, it certainly will have a psychological impact on every woman to welcome her baby into the world more easily and beautifully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42646	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Comrade Tarbuk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42647	Yes, thank you, thank you, Mr. Arsic. Honorable Minister Loncar and his associates, respected Serbian citizens, one of the newspapers of the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues has simplified the process of giving consent to tissue donations. In this way, it was given the opportunity for full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia to ban oral or written donations of their tissues, as well as the possibility for family members to do so to the extent that the person for life has not declared himself in this regard. With regard to minor citizens, the necessary informed consent of the legal minutes or guardians has been accepted. This bill provides for the promotion of voluntary giving and raising citizens' awareness of the meaning of giving. The adoption of this bill will affect patients on the waiting and transplantation list of individual tissues due to a shorter waiting time and necessary tissues tested, processed, stored and distributed in accordance with EU standards. Also, the adoption of this law will affect society in general, as the establishment of a clear and transparent system in the field of human cells and tissues increases confidence in this system, which means more developed authorism which is an important factor in tissue donation, because tissue transplantation is legally, above all, in the way of supplying and incurable giving. Mr. Lonchar, I see that yesterday we got a machine that will help treat people who are seriously ill, along with everything we've said these days that you've improved our health care, along with your associates, and given hope that we'll be standing on our feet and maybe someday we'll be the leaders in the region on health issues, from the heart I congratulate you. I think you've done a serious job and in the hope that it will continue, endure and end KC in Belgrade and KC in Novi Sad and Kragujevac, that it will be a beautiful story. In any case, this law is good, I call on my colleagues to support this law, if of course you have the strength, the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42648	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42649	Thank you, honourable chairman, respected ministers, with associates, respected fellow MPs, I would like to take this opportunity, ministers, and ask you to reconsider the request of the Mladenovac Municipality, within the health centres network in Serbia, to form a health center in Mladenovec, which has some 60,000 inhabitants around it, because Mladenac is not logical to own the House of Health and the Special Hospital for Internal Diseases, and there is no general hospital. This is due to the fact that the citizens have been denied for doctors, specialists in many areas. This also creates increased pressure on the KC and other hospitals in Belgrade and the establishment of a health centre would make the citizens of Mladenvec more accessible specialists, who are unable to employ such systematicisation at the Special Hospital for Internal Diseases. Like this, there's our neighboring town, which is, for example, an Arangelian. Since this has to do with my amendment, which I have submitted to Article 3 to add attitude 3, it concerns a humanistic approach by raising the level of services and quality that affects the development and organisation of health institutions in the Republic of Serbia. The sustainability of the health system clearly defines macro and micro-economic policies of health, planning, development of work, ensuring maximum transparency, curbing corruption and deception and selective decentralisation, in resource management and expanding resources and funding methods. Improving the efficiency of the quality of the health system, with the definition of specific state programmes in the field of disease prevention, early detection and more effective treatment, the Ministry defined through a network of institutions, technologies and medical preparations. Anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42650	I thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Janošević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42651	Thank you, President-in-Office, Honorable Minister Loncar, since we are on the day in which the debate ends in particular, I would like to thank you for your endurance, during the debate and in principle. Why do I say endurance? You have consistently endured this session, not to be encouraged by me, but simply because you have endured some slanders that have been addressed to your address and every time you have received time for a word and for an answer, you have treated every conversationary with equal respect, answered questions and showed what professionalism is. However, respected ministers, even if you have not answered some of the questions, tell you and your work the results only and what the Ministry of Health shows in the last period, which is the standard, which allows and what quality our fellow citizens. What is a serious problem are inherited debts, and one of the inherited debts is the Djordje Jovanovic Hospital in Zrenjanin of 600 million dinars, however, the hospital conducted 280,000 hospitalized visits annually. It's a really big number, and we need to help these people and the employees there. What was made possible last year is an angisal and a new X-ray that hasn't entered our city in 40 years. However, Zrenjanin is another unique thing, which is that the financial assistance of women in out-of-body fertilisation has been disabled and an age limit has been shifted for women participating in the programme from 41 to 45 years of age. However, we also take care of gender equality, only to see women come true as mothers, but it is also necessary for men to come true as parents. And if they didn't have a chance in the first marriage community, in the second Jell-O, and those couples were allowed to go into out-of-body fertilization. It is not necessary for us to understand ourselves so much in the medical profession that we know what is good for the citizens of Serbia, so I will support all proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42652	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? The word has Bojan Bag, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42653	Dear Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, we entered the second week of the debate on the law proposed because of the need for the area of human cells and pumpkins to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, but also for healthcare institutions doing these tasks to provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. The scope of human cells and pumpkins covers the tasks of donation, obtaining, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and use of human cells and tissues in humans by a living donor or by a dead person. When we look at the full text of the bill's proposal, we come to the conclusion that its primary objective is to establish a high level of safety and safety in the field of human cells and tissues that will be achieved through the definition and formation of a bank of human cells and tissues, the definition of registers of progenitors of haematopoiesis, inclusion in the republican human organ transplantation programme in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of a quality system in this area of the introduction of a single information system in the field of human cells and tissues in all institutions, as well as in the Biomedicine Administration and a clear inspection of surveillance in the field of human cells and tissues. In order to establish a high level of safety and security in the area of human cells and tissues, the bill's proposal has in a clear and unequivocal way defined the role of health institutions in this area by detailing the basic activity of the bank of human cells and tissues, defining it as a health institution or an organisational unit of health care at the territorial level of health care and a network of health institutions that brings the government and which performs minimum work on the processing, storage, distribution of human cells and tissues, so that it can carry out the tasks of obtaining and testing cells and tissues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42654	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42655	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, supplementing this article, with the position of 3th, which I have proposed, is further defined by the proposed law in terms of the contribution of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to continuing human empowerment of the health system, the employment of young medical professionals and the approval of professional training of doctors, i.e. specialisation, in continuity for several years has been allocated to the construction of new and reconstruction of existing medical facilities, i.e. to the supply of medical equipment and investment maintenance in health institutions. In the first half of this year, over two billion dinars were invested in health institutions, primarily in the purchase of modern and sophisticated equipment. Over 600 million dinars have been invested in the health centre of Užica in the past few years, thus raising the level of health care for more than 300,000 citizens of the Zlatibor district. A month ago, a hundred cardiosurgery operations were performed at the General Hospital in Užica in the Department of Cardiosurgery which opened in 2014, doing minimum four operations a week, and the Ministry of Health announced the reception of five doctors and ten nurses, as well as the acquisition of state-of-the-art equipment. The work of the Full Capacity Cardiosurgery Department is important not only for the construction of the Zlatibor County, where for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those who wait longer for this type of operational procedure, this way the waiting lists will be significantly reduced by the end of this year. The Serbian government's responsible policy and enabling regular training and adequate working conditions, including modern equipment, create conditions for new generations of doctors to contribute to the development of health care and thus to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42656	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the development in the field of health protection naturally implies that today, thanks to the serious and responsible attitude of the state, we have resources in the budget. We can invest them and Serbia is exactly what it does in treating rare diseases for our children, it was only a few years ago completely unimaginable, today it's a reality. We can invest, and Serbia is just doing it in the opening of an x-knife centre. Just two days ago, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic personally visited these papers. It is important today to give this support to development through the laws we are discussing today, because this is an extremely important way to preserve the lives of Serbian citizens. Today, when we're running a terrible hack, a monster campaign, by members of the former regime right against us, and on the subject of the law on organ transplants. What do the different Sasa Jankovici, Veseninovici, who are called one or more, the rest of the crowds Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas, their make-up actresses and former actors do? On social networks, they deal with montages, counterfeits and raw lies. They speak against Alexander Vukic, the SNS, against our MPs, putting words in people's mouths they never said, not only to harm us, but to scare the citizens of Serbia. To say that now people, imagine someone is going to kill, rob and everything else the worst, the scariest thing you can imagine, they're saying, and they're having little, so they call the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the yellow house and that name all of us here. Of course, with media support from various Solah N1 televisions, different Slavis Lekic, who, of course, received payments in the millions of amounts of Dragan Gilas, their "today-oids" and similar ones. That's why our job as MPs is important, not only to propose, support and vote for advanced laws that will save people's lives, but also to educate and thus end Mr. Chairman, that all of this little town that's come to the surface, all that misery and what's misery, DOS Palanka, who carry Jankovici and Gilasi and similar to them, we prevent them from doing harm to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42658	Thank you. At the title of Chapter II above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42659	Authorities have shown a very interesting view, saying that we against this law cannot be because we are not doctors, and I am now asking them how can they be "for" when they are not doctors? But what Serbian citizens are passing on to the minister and to you who will vote for this law is that they do not want this law because they do not want anyone, as most of the people we have met with these days, do not want them to be butchered. They say people, we're believers, I don't want to, I want to live as much as God has given me, I don't want anyone's organ, if I could possibly be told by the doctors that I need it, but I also don't want to give my organs to anyone. And that's what had to be respected here, and that's the harshest violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that's why we Serbian radicals are going to file an initiative to the Constitutional Court and we really expect, thanks to these newly elected ones, not to some, but to the respected newly elected judges of the Constitutional Court that they will actually take care and that these provisions of the law will be declared unconstitutional. Of course, whoever wants his organs taken and while he's still alive, while his heart beats, we don't mind, but you don't have the right to do that to people who don't want to, and that's the essence of our opposition to this law. We would also like to draw attention to you that we, all of us from the authorities and MPs and the Minister and the President of the State, draw everyone's attention and end this Arsic, that neither this law nor any law, especially the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, allow no one at any cost to donate the heart of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42660	National MP Sreto Peric submitted the title above Article 4 of the amendment. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42661	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, no law is so professional that its adoption should take place past this house, and it has been implemented by some colleagues, some who are not doctors by profession, that they should not speak of this law. One health ministry warning, stop being leaders in the region in three years. It's an irresistible association of me to the DS, when they said long before you that they were leaders or that they would be in something, so you see how far Serbia has arrived today. You insist this is a human gesture. A human gesture is just what a man does voluntarily, not endangering others. It can't be humane if there's supposed consent to donate dry organs if it's something humane, it's voluntary, and if it's assumed, it's mandatory. If it's mandatory, it's not humane, so it really doesn't make sense. We fear another situation that may be unconscious, but I'm not sure, unconsciously introduces a high degree of commercialisation in health services. This leads us to the obligation of the Biomedicine Authority to submit reports with many details that the European Commission will file, and then it leaves the possibility of subsequent organ trafficking that someone will do best, but if he wants to, because we do not want to influence it. If he willingly agrees, so be it, but for which reason my Biomedicine Administration should file such reports. Co-operation, if you will, over the acquisition of some new knowledge, is not disputed. I must say that we have excellent doctors who could do this area, or transplants, and they, Mr. Minister, stand out. Perhaps Professor Djukic, who is not presently there, knows that until now he has not been adequately regulated in their fee. He says that these interventions work past hours, even if it's in regular working hours, it's not for them, because they have other obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42662	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42663	Here, on the third day of the debate in detail on this bill, I must say that this discussion could have been both constructive and quality, that there was more understanding and respect for our MPs. Despite everything, we have sought to reasonfully criticise everything that we think is not good, if what is our objection to the position and jurisdiction of the director of biomedicine, and in particular the normisation of three assistant directors, who for their work corresponds to both the minister and the director. Also in carrying out inspection surveillance, you said that this surveillance should be continued for what we agree, but it was said to be carried out at least once every two years. The Serbian Radical Party believes that a better solution is to have inspection supervision carried out every year in order to reduce, respect or eliminate all negative consequences altogether. I have to say here once again that not handing out a heart transplant license to a health institution is the same as, if I were to use football terminology, if Ronald or the Messiah were to be banned from playing on the opposing half of the field where they were actually the strongest. This large number of patients gave you the right to be treated very hypocritical. In the end, I want to say that it is an unimpeached right to life, it is also an unimpaired right of every patient to be treated, to choose a doctor and a health care institution to check his health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42664	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Stojanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42665	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal of the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, I have submitted the following amendment, in Article 4(1). The bill is amended and reads: “Giveing and receiving human cells and tissues is based on full respect for the priority interests of preserving life and health, protecting the basic human rights of the donor and recipient.” Most people have humanistic access to this matter, but when we have a situation that someone wants to make money on its organs, then things become completely different. You don't think those few who know what's in the law are going to waste their time going to a competent institution saying they don't want to be organ donors? Are you aware that the vast majority of people don't know that their organs can become the subject of trade in this way? If you want this law to have its effect, then say that the organs are donated in the event of brain death so that absolutely all possible abuses are excluded. That's the only way everything you suggest makes sense. Otherwise, you'll soon be going to supplementes and amendments to this law. You need to understand that this is a serious thing that can't leave any doubt. For all of this, we in the SRS can't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42666	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, buddy Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42667	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, the SRS is trying to draw attention to smaller environments that are at the mercy of regional health centres. For example, small environments such as Prepolje, Nova Varoshi, Pryboa, Sjenica, which do not count more than 100,000 people, where patients are directed towards the hospital in Prijepolje, and a large number of patients in ZC Užice, who own CTs, i.e. scanners or private health institutions. I impose the need to take a critical look at you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For example, every week from the above mentioned subregion, more than 60 patients are indicated for the needs of scanners in Užice. How much does a health center cost? Here's an example, let's say, from Prijepolje to Užica 100km and back, that's 200km, car, doctor, driver, technician, all that costs, let's take 10-12 thousand dinars, a week 600,000, 22 working days, over the month 1.3 million, a year 15,600,000 dinars. Minister, what does this tell you? In order for the cost of treating citizens to be smaller, these smaller environments and for diagnostics to be reliable, you need to address the systemic problems of smaller health institutions that are in the mercilessness of regional health rates. I have the impression that you, as well as your colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are only seeing Serbia to Zlatibor. I ask the question of Minister Loncar, why is the Užica ZC currently in blockade 91,843,193,11 dinars? Why can the abovementioned organizational units not fill in the empty places of doctors, nurses and maids?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42668	You're bringing the end of your colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42669	Reagents are often missing, and certain medications are missing in the hospital. There's no time for... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42670	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Ružica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42671	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll all agree that transplanting human cells is a human act of tissue and organ and that it means life to someone. For renal patients who have been on dialysis for many years, the new kidney will surely mean the only salvation. The organ donation should and must be an expression of our will, our free choice, because if it is a legal obligation it will certainly not give the desired effect. With these repressive measures, you are simply forcing Serbian citizens to sign that they do not want to donate organs or to use the advertisement, or to call the Biomedicine Authority, which I normally called on Friday, all day. No one's been reported alive. It's about cell banks. So you're forcing citizens to sign, donate organs, give up, and thus put out the only hope for those patients whose transplant means life. Such a legal proposal threatens Serbian citizens to be threatened with basic human rights, which is the right to live, legally taking away. That is why we call on you to withdraw this bill and let the citizens of Serbia decide whether or not they will be donors. A positive campaign can achieve an increase in the number of donors. The citizens of Serbia first need to regain trust in a health system from which corruption should be eradicated. So, only by restoring confidence in Serbian health and a positive campaign will you increase the number of donors, and that will not happen while Zlatibor Loncar is at the head of this ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42672	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42673	Serbia is a country of sick people and I am sorry that we did not take advantage of the time when the minister is there and that we are truly looking at this health picture of our citizens. If we know that 670,000 people are suffering from diabetes, if we know that between 400 and 600,000 people are suffering from depression, which is solely the result of stress and fear of life, if we know that we have over 200 patients who are addicted to psychoactive substances immediately three times how many problems in each family. So 600,000 was hit with that problem. If we know we have 350,000 alcohol addicts times three, it's a million people now. If we know we're 13th in the world by the number of suicides, and the reasons are poverty and psychoactive substances, why didn't we talk about it? It's no problem at all to save 30 people a year who die because of the lack of organ transplants, so it's not a problem, but you can see that we have over three million sick people in the country. So more than half of us are sick. If we know, this is now the most serious example and the most serious issue for the minister and the health ministry, which is that more than 50,000 people die annually in Serbia as a result of a stroke and a heart attack. So it's a steep and quick death. To us, it is not clear, to us Serbian radicals, nor to the general public, what is the moment when a man appears in an emergency service with the outcome of death, what is the moment when he opens up and his organs are taken away, and who wonders about him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42674	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42675	Our well-known surgeon, Professor Dusan Scepanovic, whose heart was transplanted in 2006, warned you a few months ago, when this law was in the form of a proposal and came before the National Assembly, that you must bear in mind that Serbian citizens should know explicitly what the assumed consent is, and that means there is no explicit refusal that anyone will not donate their organ. Now, since you adopt this law, you will have to explain to all citizens of Serbia what this means and how and how their human rights are violated and why those who do not want to think about it must now, according to this law, think and report to the National Register and explicitly, as Professor Scepanovic said, say they do not want to, if they do not want to. Why did you resort to this, we ask you Serbian radicals, to apply the worst legal solution when it comes to the donation of organs that exist anywhere in the world? On such a sensitive issue should fall the health minister, besides all the other affairs he had, because the law is unconstitutional and broken. 23rd and 25th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because of the fact that by bringing down and attack on the physical integrity of every single person in this country, who will not be able to defend himself against it, as well as members of their families, because people are uninformed, you question your good intentions in passing such a law. Will you now, I ask you, Mr. Arsic, as vice president of the Assembly, all of you individually, because it's not enough for two or three days of congregation debate, to appear on the media and to advocate this and explain to people what it really means? Of course you won't, and the citizens will have no idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42676	Maybe someone will know, someone won't, and I signed my donor card. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: There are no more cards under this law. I don't know what's wrong with you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Seselj, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42677	We had the opportunity to hear today in the debate in detail how this law regulates voluntary organ donation. That's not true. This law regulates the mandatory giving of organs, i.e. Donating, and that's what's problematic and it doesn't matter what there is any other example in Europe that presumed consent works. That doesn't mean it's good. The assumed consent in the organ transplant law is a repression against citizens and disrespect for their human rights. The law views Serbian citizens as a resource, does not respect their rights and their personality. Authorities are not things, organs are not objects, organs are an integral part of a person's personality and, as to citizens, executive authority should act, not as to some potential resources, the source of the organ. It's only a matter of time before we think about whether these organs might be able to go anywhere. On the other hand, what is the biggest nebulosis in the whole debate is that we are looking for the confidence of Serbian citizens in the health system and in the transplant law. We heard colleagues here from the ruling majority, there are many doctors, all honours, you won the elections, and why you seek the confidence of the citizens in the health system, and place the name "doctor of death" in the place of the Minister of Health... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42678	My colleague Seselj, he's Mr. Loncar here, and please welcome your nicknames to the press conference, so say so. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42679	I know, Mr. Chairman, that you couldn't control what anyone would say until they did, but Article 107, the question of dignity, I think it points out that for this kind of thing, because they're obviously done on purpose, which is not the first time during this debate, they should react and they should give a warning. I said you couldn't predict what was going to happen and that's why I'm not asking to vote on this, but I'd ask that we take care of it, because we know what, unfortunately, some of us can only expect. It is unacceptable in this way to insult the minister, insult the government, insult the National Assembly. As nice as it is, let's just say, obviously it's not worth anything, it doesn't serve anything, some just don't want to hear and understand and adopt. The story of repression is also an insult to the National Assembly. It's not repression, ladies and gentlemen, if we assume he's human, that a Serbian citizen is by his nature, as by default, human and generous. If you assume, and some of them go, is it so, that a man by his nature must be selfish and that it is a serious sin to assume the opposite, it is your business. You cannot insult others, nor the present minister, nor the National Assembly, but most importantly, the citizens of this country. Forget everything else, forget the election if you're not told about them, just think about people whose lives depend on whether these solutions will be adopted. We're not asking too much. If we're looking, consideration and decency about these people. Mr. Arsic is right, when he said today, it would be bad for any of us here, including those who use such words, in the case of their family or family, to understand why this solution is so important. Don't let us get into a situation until then, some of them come to their senses. We're serious, responsible, grown-up people, and we can do these things in time, fair and square. If we do things differently, Mr. Chairman, these elections will be a big purgatory for those who can do it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42680	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. A fellow Seselj, on what basis? (Alexander Seselj: Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42681	Only the president can, or chair, take care of the order of the National Assembly. It cannot be a deputy or head of any parliamentary group. You know what, the nickname that Zlatibor Loncar wears didn't give him me. So that's what we've had to listen to ever since he was appointed minister, and it's precisely because the interests of Serbian citizens are first, and that's how it should be for all MPs. We're talking about this law. We had the experience of the "yellow house" Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, where a whole new criminal operation of their abductions, liquidation and extraction of organs, is being sold on the black market. So how can we approach organ transplants so unscheduled, say how fantastic it is, and how will it only improve the health system? No criticism is allowed. Just you who are proposing, who will vote on all the lists for, should have it all in mind and talk about it, not that every word of criticism bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42682	My colleague Seselj, since you've been talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, no one's stopping you from criticizing. It's your right. What is not allowed in the congregation, regardless of the lines, these are insults. Milorad Mircic: It is out of charity. If it is someone of mercy, let them call it members of their family. I don't have that problem, Mr. Mircic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42683	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, in Section 2. Article 4 of this Bill refers to the principle of protection of interest and dignity and respect for the dignity of the deceased person and the members of his family. Matter is extremely sensitive, so with this amendment, I have proposed a slightly different definition than the one proposed. Describing the adoption of this law, the proposer wrote that the possibility was left that every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia should be banned in writing or oral form by giving their tissues, as well as the possibility that family members would do so at the time of death unless the dead person had declared themselves to be alive. It's, like I said, very sensitive matter and it's very delicate moments, so it doesn't need to be played and such provisions should be put into law. As regards the amendment to Article 4 of this proposal of the Law of the SRS Parliament Group, when the National Assembly adopts the law, this must be done precisely so that there is no situation for certain deficiencies to occur in the application of the institution. that something has been defined in a vague way, and in this case it is an important law in the field of health care. To that end, the Proposer should think carefully about all the suggestions of the MPs expressed through the amendments. As one of the reasons for the adoption of this law, the Proposer also cited the need for the human cell and tissue area to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that the area of medicine that develops intensively and offers great opportunities to treat people and to provide health institutions doing these jobs with better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42684	I thank my colleague LJubenović. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Komlenski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42685	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this Law. I suggest that the word "and the tissue from the deceased donor be treated" be added to the word "debt". This would practically, in line with positive legal practice, raise to one higher level the obligation to respect the dignity of the deceased when taking cells and tissues in accordance with this law. This may seem to you from the point of view of people who are dealing with medicine as unnecessary, but we who have been dealing with law for many years know that this absolutely has a purpose and that would really contribute, firstly, to the relationship to the law itself, and also to those who are bound by this law when it comes to obtaining human cells and tissues. I think all the amendments I have submitted from Article 1 to Article 4 of the amendment are to be adopted. I'll vote for them. I think both colleagues will support them and these are amendments that can really give this law one extra weight and one extra seriousness. This law is as good as I said, it really provides one security in the pursuit of this action, if that's what you can say, and it has to be said. And what must be pointed out through these amendments is that the level of that security of due respect for the deceased is something that this country knows how to respect and know how to identify itself in the legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42686	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42687	What the SRS wants all the time is that on this topic we don't want to reach or score cheap political points. This isn't a subject, nor is this a law of politicization. However, it is obvious that the ruling coalition does not care when it determines its personnel who will represent them at the level of the executive authority and this is an opportunity for us to point out that fact to the public as well. Instead of calming down the situation by the minister of resolutely, to slowly amortise attacks or awkward issues from the opposition, he is moving into something that is undesirable when it comes to the assembly debate. Here in this law we need to achieve this effect of solidarity, that humanity rises to a much higher level, and it can't if we have such a representative of the executive government. And the ruling majority also knows for a simple reason why the behaviour of individual ministers does not contribute to better enforcement and application of the law. We here say even some things that the minister does not like for reasons for the public to see what views on the work of parliament and what the executive power has on parliament at all. As soon as something is said not to suit him, he jumps right away and starts to insult him and he joins him and now he holds the presidency, who has even taken his own right and gone so far as to mention the family, which among other things thanks to this family, her member Vojislav Seselj, for a long time, ate bread and fed his family and at least deserves to make such an incorrect comparison with the family and what is said to the minister of mercy, Mr Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42688	Since you keep calling me, colleague Mircic, I ask you to go through the families and patients of Mr. Lonchar he cured and explain to them the origin of that nickname. Let me see what they tell you. As far as my existence is concerned, it was never from politics. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Milorad Mircic: Can I answer? You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very interesting to hear how the representatives of the ruling majority praise these laws, without understanding a tenth of the problem from all this can lead to. To be clear, no one in their right mind is opposed to helping people, to prolonging life, to increase the quality of life, but none of them have ever heard him mention the ethical component of all of this. It is known that in this area science is rapidly developing and opening perspectives that were never thought of in the wildest fantasy. Already today we have situations and assumptions that changes can be made at the level of DNA and is not far from day, since human freedoms are parallel, individual freedoms are also forced, when, for example, someone is going to ask for a hoove instead of a hoove to go without shoes. Of course, this may be funny to some, but without ethical limitations, this will be our coming reality. Already today, we have a situation where our young generations mimic the appearance of virtual heroes and virtual heroes. A man is designed so that apart from appearance, he is no different from most. Man is God's creation, and if anything is added to him or taken from him, the question is whether it's more that person and if it's that man. One question, to use Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, do you know that recently a heart donor appeared in Nis, that a team was coming from Belgrade to take over that heart. However, this team was absolutely unprofessional and the whole business was ruined. That heart was no longer in function, and this person who was supposed to receive that organ was left without it. Is that familiar to you and did you do something about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42690	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Janjusevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42691	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, how do they respond to the fact that it is politically legitimate to say in a voice that the water in Belgrade is not correct, to say that the Assembly is a "yellow house", to say – keep your organs, after this law, someone will catch you and extract your organs, how do you respond to those who do not sit here and believe that a reviled "tweet" can replace their presence here in the Assembly? And these days the only possible answers have arrived. You, ministers, were in Vrnjačka Banja seven days ago with the president of Serbia to lay the cornerstone for a new hotel within the special hospital "Mercur" in Vrnjačka Banja, where health tourism is developing. The answer is also the announcement of the Moravia Corridor Cačak – Kraljevo – Vrnjačka Banja – Trstenik – Kruševac – Pojate. The answer yesterday was when you and the president of Serbia visited the construction of the "ix knife" centre at KCS. The answer will be the day after the day when Aleksandar Vukic lays the cornerstone for the construction of Germany's Forverg factory in Cačka, where the job will find 1,000 workers. The answer is speedy work on the end of the Belgrade highway – Cačak and a new contract signed at 40.4km, a new section of Preljina – Požega, and 450m euros worth. All these answers are no "tweet" and there is no "facebook" status ugly that can erase those letters standing on the board in the International Red Cross building in Geneva where it writes – Be human, as Serbia was human in 1885. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42692	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42693	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this law is one of those who follows the government of Serbia's trend of efforts to organise Serbia as a modern state, a state that does not forget its glorious history and which creates the best conditions for citizens' lives. Today, there is a health law ahead of us and by adopting it we will certainly contribute to better health care in the Republic of Serbia. We need to keep our young doctors, medical workers to stay in Serbia, and as hard as that may be, I think we're on our way to do that. It's starting to rebuild KCS. At the end of last year, KC was also opened in Nis where 50m euros were invested. It is also working on the construction of the Centre for the "ix knife", a "gamma knife" opened, where the government of the Republic of Serbia invested 460m dinars. With this work, Serbia achieves the goal of becoming, having the most modern medical equipment, and slowly becoming a leader in the region in certain health areas. Patients from the environment are also coming to Serbia today, and our money is getting less and less going to Turkey and some other countries where our citizens have previously been treated. As health care is done, so is infrastructure, education, military, culture, innovation and Serbia showing that it can, can and can not give up creating conditions for better citizens' lives. I expect this law to raise the level of health care in our country and keep our experts and I will support him in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42694	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Ognjanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42695	I thank the chairman. The very act of tissue or organ transplantation represents a human act that extends and improves the quality of the patient's life, and which, after adequate therapy, gets the chance to work again, actively participates in all spheres of society, to have offspring. In Serbia, unfortunately, there are a large number of children waiting for this type of treatment. May 15th of this year opened the first newly built children's haematological department within the building of the Children's Hospital for Internal Diseases of the KC. The Nis department is a project of national importance and, most importantly, will improve the quality of treatment for children suffering from cancer. This is the first health facility of this purpose in Serbia. The construction lasted two years, and the initiator was the Association of Parents of Children with Cancer, which, with the huge support and assistance of citizens of Serbia, donors, the Ministry of Health and the administration of KCN, led to the achievement of this project. For four years, the target was to be achieved and over 400 actions took place during this period involving over 1,000 volunteers. This is an example where humanity and will overcome all obstacles, an example that together we can help each other, that together we can do much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42696	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a friend of Martinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said this morning that Rodoljub Sabic stopped being an independent and independent state body and became an opposition politician. He's been doing it for a long time, by the way. Today, this opposition politician, who falsely presents himself as a public information trustee, submitted and, imagine, just today, at a time when we are talking about a set of laws that come or the Ministry of Health and which should help treat our citizens, today Rodoljub Sabic submitted a request for the initiation of a mistrial against the health minister. Zlatibor Lončar and against the acting director of Serbia's Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut" because of what he said made it difficult to determine the facts in the case of a mobile application "chosen doctor". Since Rodoljub Sabic is making politics out of everything, including this application, which is also used by the patient, he believes there is something suspicious in the application "chosen doctor" and has applied for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure against Dr Loncar and against the director of the Institute of Public Health "Milan Jovanovic Batut". At the same time, I would like to say, Mr. Minister, because of you and the citizens of Serbia, that the Council for Monitoring, Human Rights and the fight against corruption "Transparency", today against Rodoljub Sabic for the crime in Article 359. The criminal code, filed with the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, for embezzling on the name of the salary, on the basis of 118 solutions for admission to labour relations 32 million 606,000 dinars, on behalf of official trips of millions of 350,000 561 dinars, I speak exclusively of net amounts, and on behalf of the organisation of press conferences in the "media Centre" in Belgrade, without public procurement, 207,000 430 dinars. Also, on the basis of various contracts related to projects organised by Rodoljub Sabic, he embezzled three million dinars and based on two contracts with, imagine, drivers he hired. One is Milos Vasic, first writes Milos Vasic, and Milos Zoric, apparently Rodoljub Sabic doesn't know exactly what it is, in any case, based on this one contract for Milos Vasic, he embezzled 218 thousand 706 dinars, and for this Milos Vasic, or Milan Zoric, he doesn't even know what he's called, 255,000 757 dinars. I'm saying this so the citizens of Serbia know that Rodoljub Shabic is ruthlessly robbing Serbia's budget. If there were no such people who were essentially opposition politicians, not independent independent state bodies, there would be Mr. Loncar, much more money to treat our citizens. I said this so that Serbian citizens would know that against the government of Serbia, including the Minister of Loncar, as you can see, were organised not only by certain opposition political parties, but even by those who consider themselves independent and independent state bodies, and in fact are the exhibits of those who work against the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42698	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42699	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, I must point out for the sake of Serbian citizens that the bill on human cells and tissues has been adopted in accordance with the highest standards of medical profession, in accordance with the principles of humanity, ethics and morality. Also, I must point out that this bill absolutely does not mention any coercion. On the contrary, this is a law based on the principle of volunteering, and it is explicitly stated by Article 28, and Article 32, as well as the whole law from beginning to end. Also, I have to point out that in small areas such as Priboy, where I come from, a day-to-day hemodialysis hospital is open within the General Hospital, where it came out to meet those kidney patients who need this service, not to travel 60 kilometers to Prepolje or 160 kilometers to Užica, but to get a haemodialysis service within a daily hospital in Priboj. I expect that for these patients who are on haemodialysis in Priboj, this law that gives a chance for a new life, and these patients from Priboj, they're about to get that chance to live. Also, I want to point out that other than cyber knives, gamma knives and x knives, which are being announced, I have to point out that a huge investment in equipment has been made, and equipment is health equipment, is part of efficient and functional health care. I have to say that in KCS within the urology clinic, the most modern rock-breaking machine in the kidney has been purchased, the value of this apparatus is 48 million dinars. It has acquired Mystivation and KCS, which can be treated annually by about 2,000 patients, and the possibility of healing is over 90%.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42700	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42701	As the MPs of the SNS, ladies and gentlemen have already said, our role is not only to support good solutions, to show them properly to each other, but our role is to educate. Why is it important to understand this law in the right way? Here's a couple of data from the media. I don't know if they're too precise, but if they are, they lead to thinking. They tell you that the chances that a man will need the help that comes from these laws, so aid in the form of organ transplants, are 20 times greater than it will be necessary for him to participate in the security of this type of aid for someone else, 20 times higher. They tell you that 30 people a year end their lives without waiting, unfortunately, to get this kind of help. That data says how important it is for us to adopt these solutions. If we take the slightest possible step, the smallest possible step will be terribly important, because human lives are the least possible, and it doesn't have to be the least possible, because I don't see any reason not to make a situation similar to what the comparisons are, in the number of donors per million people in Serbia today and in Croatia, where it is seven times larger. To get close to that result, there's no reason not to. Imagine how precious that would be, how important that would be. What we've been saying for days, I'd say, there's still some effect, among other things, on the people who are taking part in the debate, and if nothing better, I can see that they're uncomfortable resisting these solutions and our arguments. Unfortunately, we won't reach everyone. Some of them like Gilas and Jeremic, if they experience themselves in a brutal way over the subject and the people who need help, they mock. Here, some Vladimir Petrovic, who knows why, today in the City Assembly, he says -- two more three weekends like this, he's thinking about last weekend, and they can write off my liver. He's had so much fun, and everything on the subject of this kind of help that we're talking about and everything on the subject of a chance to save people's lives. Such ones, in order to help us, have chosen to be stuck forever in that spirit of civility and the obscenity of DOS palace from which, unfortunately, they have never been better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42702	National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42703	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the objective of the amendment that I have submitted to Article 4. The bill is to further define the basic principles of law for the purpose of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to humanities and public health concerns, it is important and necessary in health care, as well as in other areas, to monitor trends in technological development and the application of modern methods of treatment, but also equally important to train and educate an adequate fit that could apply new methods in the treatment process and improve the quality of the provision of health services. The Užica Health Centre Manager has also reached agreement in collaboration with the Užice High Business and Technical School and the competent Ministry since last year, and has been given the accreditation for the "Health Care" study programme, to get the call of professional nurse, in order to provide the Užice Health Centre with as many nurses with higher education as possible, and all with the aim of providing better and better quality healthcare services. A business-technical co-operation contract has also been signed to ensure that the General Hospital of Užice is a teaching base and provides the necessary fit. Also, obtaining the health ministry's permission to introduce new procedures with the help of Serbia's Clinical Centre and the Cardio-surgery clinic, the first open-heart operations were carried out at the Uzica General Hospital and the first guy in Serbia's secondary-level hospital. To date, with the help of the Clinical Centre 110 heart surgery with extraordinary results has been done, which is the result of improvements in work and the improvement of adequate staff. Because of the importance and importance of the law, in voting day I will support both this and the set of other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42704	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, this bill enables priority interests to be respected for the preservation of life and health, as well as the protection of fundamental human rights and dignity of the donor and recipient of human organs. Donorship consisting of donations, acquisitions, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from live or dead persons shall be coordinated with European legislation. The required procedures are simplified, thus increasing the chance for individuals in need of an organ. In particular, it was taken into account to protect all parties in the donation process, which is the recipient and donor, if and to respect the deceased face and family members of the deceased person’s death in obtaining human cells and tissues from the deceased donor. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made it clear that Serbia is working towards European treatment standards. Developed health means a more positive society and generally healthier, and raising the state of health of the nation inevitably leads to an increase in labour and productivity, thereby contributing to a significant increase in GDP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42706	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42707	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are no experts across the street. What's good at it is that Serbian citizens can see that no single representative of the former regime's parties is at this point, and so it's almost all day long, is in the room and that in the best way they see how they actually understand their parliamentary function that they should perform. That's what he says about them. When it comes to discussion in particular, here we are at the end of the debate itself, we have heard all those arguments that go in favor of why this law should be adopted. We have heard the benefits this law will produce for both citizens and in general. We've heard all those results that the Ministry of Health has achieved so far. Unfortunately, I don't have time to read all these results again, and many of my colleagues have done so on several occasions today. I just want to say that my amendment provides strong support for this bill, but also for all the results of the work of the Ministry of Health, but also for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For all these reasons, I want to underline once again that in the voting day, I will support the bill on human cells and tissues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42708	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42709	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, a set of laws we are discussing these days, of course, and the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, each will affect the reduction of treatment costs, among those treated exclusively abroad, because they did not have related donors of tissue and organ cells. After the adoption of a set of legal solutions, treatment will be able to take place in the Republic of Serbia, at more favourable conditions and lower costs. The new legal solutions will certainly awaken people's awareness that in the coming period they donate more organs and thus save human lives, which means that this law and all the laws that we are discussing these days are human character and ultimately affect the improvement of the health care system. In the previous period, the resolution ministry has done much to raise people's awareness of their own health, as an example of the action of free preventive checks. This action, I have already expired, has led to the awakening of people's consciousness, because all health institutions have responded to this action, and that the action has succeeded, says that more than 170,000 citizens have responded to the action and that it has been preventively examined, where many citizens, unfortunately, have been diagnosed with severe illnesses. In the past, when these actions were not carried out, we had a situation where people were dying of healing diseases, and they weren't aware that they were suffering from anything themselves during their lives. Why do I mention these actions? Because each dinar invested in prevention is repeatedly returned to the health system based on the reduction of treatment costs for the diseases covered by these actions. All of this, as well as a set of legal solutions and actions I have been talking about, affects the improvement and improvement of the health care system in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42710	Thank you. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42711	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, starting with the fact that the arrival of SNS in the Republic of Serbia has been recognised as a priority and that a lot of effort, energy and effort has had to be made to stop the collapse of this area and, later, to achieve positive results, we have today on the agenda of this bill. Raising to a higher level of providing services in the area of health care to citizens and positioning Serbia in better places on lists dealing with assessments in this area, we now have legal solutions that required an environment that were created jointly by the president of the Republic of Serbia, the government and the health ministry. Until a few years ago, we had a very poor health condition, but I am glad that these days we have had the opportunity to hear ourselves, as well as the citizens of Serbia, what is the situation in health care, how are municipalities throughout the Republic of Serbia and what is the state of health today, and to work intensively, thoroughly, responsibly, humanely, to approach problem-solving and to make solutions that and how they create better conditions for citizens' lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42712	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42713	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Mr Loncar, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, the Honorable Members of the People's Parliament, is talking about protecting interest and dignity. However, before I begin to explain my amendment, I cannot help but feel that one MP from one part of the opposition said the following - depression is exclusively, undermining exclusively, the effects of stress and bad life. It's really a total layman's interpretation and I immediately have an association to one film, and that's a movie called "Silent Skin", where a student on a visa, played by Irfan Mensur, speaking to Professor Bati Zivojinovic, says: "A man suffers from bad life, and that is – a small heart and long arms." So it's too serious a subject of this law to interpret the etiology of depression in this laymanic way. To get back to my member. "The donation and receipt of human cells and tissues is based on the respect of priority interests for the preservation of life and health and the protection of basic human rights and dignity of the donor and recipient. “ I have to say that a special part of psychiatry studies this subject of transplants, and that is the part called lyazone psychiatry, so I am absolutely in the subject and my amendment is absolutely meaningful when I talk about this law. Because of the short time to explain the amendments, I'll only talk about transplants from a living related donor. But as I can see, I don't have any more time, so I can't elaborate this in one professional way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42714	Next time, colleague Rancic. Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42715	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Loncar and his associates, the local self-government of the town of Leskovac succeeded with the help of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health to make historic investments at the Leskovac General Hospital. Departments of Oncology and Children's Neuropsychiatry have also been renovated, and the new ruho has also received an EEG cabinet that has renovated facades, floors, sanitary nodes, a roofstone, and a park in front of the cabinet. Similar works have also been performed in the Department of Disease Dependence and the Daily Hospital of Psychology, which means that this whole complex has been given a completely new look. There is no hospital service in which at least something has not been done, from editing rooms, sanitary nodes, changing floors, to reconstructing sewers and heat lines. About four million dinars from donors and their own resources were invested in renovating the urology, orthopedics, gynecology, and pediatrics departments for internal medicine and gastroenterology. At the beginning of this year, the Infectious Disease Service building, after 70 years, experienced a complete reconstruction. The Public Investment Management Office for this purpose has singled out 46 million dinars. We can now boast that we have one of the most modern departments intended for this medical branch in Serbia. The last donation that will allow our general hospital to build and equip central sterilization is a donation of the NJ Foundation sterilization apparatus. K.V. Princess Catherine, worth $300,000. We got the sterilization machine from the health department. The General Hospital also expects the reconstruction of the main building to be financed by the Public Investment Office of 620m dinars. In the end, I'm going to talk about health, and we must not forget the care of our oldest residents. 62.2 million dinars have been invested in reconstruction of the institution for adults and older ones, and the city has invested 5.6 million dinars in this institution earlier in exchange for carpentry. Also, I'd like to remind you of the arrangement of a stay for the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42716	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42717	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we are witnessing daily investment in health care, in infrastructure, in equipment, in medical means, in enabling new employment and in healthcare will be invested even more. The observed situation was catastrophic, health care was not invested, and it is necessary that the institutions with which citizens meet most of the equipment, but also to provide employees with the appropriate conditions in which they will work. In early August, Serbia's Clinical Centre will have two x knives, and for each treatment we will save 20,000 euros. More than 25,000 people come to the Emergency Centre of the Clinical Centre of Serbia daily, and the facility must be ready to receive these patients. Nis has received years of expected the most modern clinical centre that will provide health care to patients, not only the citizens of Nis, but also the patients of Southeast Serbia and beyond, and such centres are also planned for Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. The Clinical Centre of Serbia has already invested 8.5m euros, and the complete reconstruction will cost 69m euros and the signing of the contract is expected soon. It is evident that the great commitment of the Ministry of Health is, and not only because of it, but also because, even now, these new laws that are now ahead of us are better quality, I call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support them in the day for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42718	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42719	I just want to let you know, what the president was saying yesterday about building a new clinical centre in Belgrade, that tomorrow at 1:00 p.m. we're signing a contract to build a clinical center, finally.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42720	I thank the ministers. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42721	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, fellow MPs, the SNS, along with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has proposed and adopted a large number of laws over the past few years that have produced reforms that have been beyond the needs of Serbian society and have provided Serbian citizens with easier lives and safer futures. At the very top of the visionary laws that will contribute to raising the level of health care, is this law, the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, which has already been disputed several days back by a loud minority in this parliament, in the public minority who is apores against the law, only because it is proposed by the SNS minister. By spreading disinformation, more specifically lies about the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, the minority is trying to harm the interests of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian health, despite the desire of the majority of the population to support the adoption of the law. The bad campaign is against the humanistic approach of all those Serbian citizens who would like to make life possible even after their own lives. Just in the humanistic nature of this law, my amendment aimed at supporting the bill, which, apart from the fact that it will ensure the stability of the health system and its progress, will also ensure the continued development of the Republic of Serbia. My support for this text of the law, as well as my colleagues, in the voting day will be absolute because this is one of the laws of a special law that will move Serbia a step further on the scale of modern and developed countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42722	Thank you, colleague Zeleg. National MP Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42723	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the area of human cells and tissues is based on the principle of protection of interest and dignity, the principle of solidarity, the principle of medical justification and security and the principle of equality. When obtaining human cells and tissues from a deceased donor, he treats himself with respect for the dignity of the deceased person and family members of the deceased. The donation and receipt of human cells and tissues is based on the respect of priority interests for the preservation of life and health and the protection of basic human rights and dignity of the donor and recipient. Today, the state of Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, with the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent health ministries, is investing heavily in health, primarily on the basis of the good state of public finances. In addition to this, many newly built facilities and investments in existing facilities, as well as employment contracts that President Aleksandar Vukic awarded to the best graduates of the Faculty of Medicine in Serbia and announced that every six months the countries will seek out 50 new best graduates, enabling them to specialize, doctoral studies, which is, we will all agree on the best way to invest in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42724	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. The word has a folk letter from LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42725	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the Law on Human Cells and Tissues is defined both by the donation and receipt of human cells and tissues based on the respect of priority interests for the preservation of human life and human health, as well as their basic human rights and dignity, both the donor and the recipient. This law looks at the humanistic character of the development of the health system, and thus the entire Republic of Serbia. The application of this law leads to simplification of administrative procedures, which would significantly facilitate and speed up the start of treatment for all slow-diagnosed diseases, whose treatment is long-term, expensive and unorthodox and unsuccessful. By giving cells and tissues, we strengthen the humanist consciousness of the population, solidarity among people, and most importantly we influence that the recipients of these cells and tissues will be cured and included in all spheres of everyday life as a completely cured person. The health of the population and the quality of life must be a priority for all of us. The adoption of this law is of multiple importance both to the improvement of the health system and to the health of the population and thus to the development of the entire state. improves the quality of medical care provided, allowing for a reduction of the time limit from disease detection until the start of treatment. The proposed law should be supported because it not only improves the medical system, and most importantly gives the sick a new chance of healing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42726	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42727	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament and respected citizens, what the minister did from taking over the ministry, and I will remind the citizens, I don't have to show the pictures, but they remember very well that the ministry at the time seemed abandoned and half of the facilities didn't even have heating, let alone equipment that would be adequate for years, that is, in the 21st century. The gamma knives and x-knifes and other equipment that appeared in the meantime and appeared in Serbia could only dream, and they didn't even promise it in pre-election campaigns, and this in 2018 is reality and something that exists and what citizens can count on. The law we adopt is the same as the disease, does not choose, acts on everything and acts primarily regardless of religious, national, political or any other belonging. All those who need help will have the right, will have hope and will have the opportunity to get it, and I will repeat, mathematics is a simple science, 20 times, I will repeat 20 times more likely that any of us will be a recipient than an organ donor. I repeat, citizens, you know, 20 times. What I must finally repeat, it is that, in the day of voting, I call on all citizens to be present and to see who voted for this law, but at the same time I call on the citizens themselves, I call on Serbia to stand behind this law. This is a law for them and a law that will bring them a brighter future, a solution for those who need help, and it applies to the sick who are waiting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42728	Thank you. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42729	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of Parliament, tabled an amendment to Article 4. The bill on human cells and tissues, which reads -- the humanist character of this law, encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the progress of medical institutions. One of the objectives of the bill is to promote giving, and humanist character is a very important aspect. The draft law provides for a simplified procedure for issuing authorisations to healthcare institutions for performing operations in this area. It is also clearly defined procedures that institutions can apply for these tasks, which institutions can be banks of human tissues and which are the necessary conditions for obtaining work permits in terms of jobs under this law. A unique information system has also been envisaged to implement and implement the principle of traceability. On the other hand, the procedure relating to giving is significantly simplified when it comes to dead persons, it is considered that there is a tacit consent unless the person for life objected or his relatives did so at the time of death. When it comes to living persons, she or their parents, or guardians, must give explicit consent at any time. This approach significantly simplifies and facilitates the procedure and avoids excessive unnecessary costs. Accordingly, the humanist character of the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the progress of medical institutions. The amendment I have proposed aims to highlight this in particular in Article 4. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42730	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42731	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers are indisputable efforts and investments that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health achieve to improve Serbia's health care. The results are particularly significant but, above all, the energy by which Minister Loncar runs the Ministry of Health and which he successfully transfers to the people who run the health institutions. An excellent example for this is the co-operation of the Ministry of Health and General Hospital in Šapac, whose head is the director of Dr Slobodan Popović Hospital and where with the help of the Ministry the following equipment has been carried out: central sterilization, worth 22 million dinars, which solves the decades-long problem, the battery system for the purposes of working in the orthopedic service with trauma, two ultrasonic appliances have been purchased, the reconstruction of the parking space within the General Hospital Shabac, and all approaches to the facilities, 40 modern, modern, hospital beds, donation of the church to the municipality from Linc. The purchase of two anaesthetic devices, two monitor patients, has been provided with funds for the purchase of microscopes for the purposes of the pathology service, is the same with the purchase of a patient monitor for the intensive and surgical care unit. More than 55 healthcare professionals have been employed on certain and indefinite times and many new medical procedures and technologies. What I would also like to point out is the project of reconstruction, adaptation and construction of institutions, where, based on the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the task force on reconstruction and improvement of the facility, the General Hospital "Dr. Lazarevic" will be fully reconstructed, renovated and upgraded. Upgrade of a five thousand square meters lamela area and reconstruction of all other facilities at the disposal of the facility, a total of 27 thousand square meters, is foreseen. I thank you on behalf of the citizens of Capca.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42732	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42733	Just to let you know, I don't know if you've heard from them, there have been laparoscopic colon surgery in Sapac today, a laparoscopic column is being taken, and with the support of doctors from England and our experts, doctors in Sapac will be able to do it on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42734	Thank you, Minister. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42735	Thank you, Chairman. The objective of the amendments I have submitted is to point to the human character of this legal solution and certainly to its contribution to the development of the medical system in Serbia. I'm a member of the 4th talking about principles, as well as this whole other head, which we're talking about right now. First of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, we are obliged to give another explanation, because we have heard from the opposition's work these days a malicious, sometimes morbid and ludicrous explanation of the law, and the main goal is to alert the public of Serbia and the deception of Serbian citizens, and ultimately is to cause artificial chaos, as is the case in all other areas of life, when it comes to the Serbian opposition today. Namely, the principles on which this law rests are the protection of interest and dignity, the principle of volunteering, security, equal availability of human organs. Now, that's exactly what the key to this law is, and I think it's important to note that all of this is based on the principle of volunteering. So, no organ transplants will be done if anyone, but anyone, from family members, disagrees with that and no organ transplants will be done unless there's a written trail behind the deceased, any written clue that he informs that he doesn't want his organs donated after his death. Since we are on the principles, I thought it was important to point out once again, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, which is, in fact, the essence of this amendment – that it is a human act based on volunteering, and in itself, it affects the development of the entire medical system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42736	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42737	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, above all, want the citizens of Serbia not to be in a position to be donors, because we know what the position is. I really wish them that, as a humanist. I also want all people to stay away from the position that they need an organ, that they need a donor. Desires are both reality and reality. I believe that wishes are shared by all here who are present. I'm not sure about these absentees. These absentees called us the yellow house, the Parliament. This isn't a yellow house since 2012. The yellow house lost here in 2012. That's what those who released 2,106 Albanian terrorists in 2001 call us. They let the Serbs' organs out. And today they are without shame and shame, with two fingers of cheek and claim that this assembly is a yellow house. It hasn't since 2012. But there's a little yellow room. In a distraction, as you can see. Also, there is a saying – the health of the mouth enters. They've done it a lot. I'll show you the contract the House of Health had in India. The action was called "Vojvodjanska kuda zdravne". But how did the Duke's House of Health work? I'll try to get you some of what's been invoiced. So – but sometimes you eat well, “Vojvodjanska kuda health” enters the mouth. Treaty of 24. 09. In 2015, and in 2016, they starved with power in India. He says this - a bar, a health contract and a coffee shop, it's a pain in the ass. It says – the type of product, what is consummated. And it says: Vienna steak, 200 grams, amount of 600. It's a weird lunch. With that lunch comes the carats, the thickness of the diameter of 180 millimeters. This must have been a democratic dream, as they call it, 180 millimeters, 600 portions. I'm not making anything up. Maybe it's funny, but it's costing. This was paid for by health insurance. Next, loaded hanger - 600 servings. It's like the army was. First of all, the bar can't take 600 people. But exactly 600, they eat 600 of this, 600 of that, that's the third meal. Fourth dish - roasted chicken. They loved those chicken, all kinds of chicken. 600 servings, too. A 200g burger – 600 portions. All in all -- two million 610 thousand. The home of health was otherwise found in a minus 300 million. The drugs - minus 172 million, although we from the RFO gave them money for the drugs. But they spent on burgers, on a 180-millimeter carat. It goes on to say, creamy, 150 grams, a thousand pieces. These 600 ate one, 66 crepits. The macaque or nut strudel, at will, a thousand pieces. The cherry strudel, a thousand pieces. That cost 864 thousand, that's already coming in about three and a half million, but in addition, since health was at stake, there were juices and water. The water “Rosa” 5,400 pieces, so these 600 drank nine waters, it was clear that each of them would drink nine waters. Next, “Cola-Cola”, 1,200 pieces, that's a foreign drink, and that's two “Colas” along with water and “Fanta” another 1,200 pieces. It all cost close to four million. That's how they did it, this yellow company in the distraction. Not to remain in debt to Djordju Vukadinovic, this is my famous tractor. I didn't get the incentive, it's a loan from the Vojvodina Development Fund. I give him a tractor, but to take over a 30,000-euro loan and a few euros, to take over a six-month war of 3,000 euros, and we return 20%, and 40% subsidies, here is a confirmation, alone under the contract, that I am obliged to grant a fund for the development of Vojvodina's agriculture. So, yes, Alexic got a tractor, there were other MPs, that's their right, but, well, I didn't take advantage of it in Serbia, and that's another invention. And finally end up with this alliance of crooks and cheaters, so-called. Gilas left. Left-wing millionaires. Millions robbed millions, robbed millions of alliance thieves and frauds, I call them rightly. The Albanians were pulling our organs out, those 2,106 they released. After that, they used functions for private jobs. Tens and hundreds of millions of euros are heavy left-handed left-handmen, the right-handed pocket, Gilas. If the Albanians have been pulling our organs out, these 12 and 16 years of blood on our straws have been drinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42738	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42739	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, stem cell treatment has proved to be one of the most successful forms of therapy for the most severe diseases. Even 90% of those treated with malignant and haemaoncological diseases stand out by Professor Dr. Hope Bashar, one of the largest stem cell transplant experts. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving as well as the organisation of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, which, in all stages, respecting the principles of traceability, will ultimately improve the quality of health care provided in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, i.e. with EU regulations in this area. It should be pointed out that stem cell transplantation, haematoposis is carried out in five health institutions, primarily at the Institute for Mother and Child Belgrade, Dr Vukan Čupic, then at the VMA institution, the Military Medical Academy, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, the Institute of Oncology of Vojvodina, while tissue transplantation is carried out in five health institutions and two in state property – the clinic for ophthalmology and the Institute for orthopaedic and surgical diseases Banjica, and three in private property - the Special Hospital "Milos", the Special Hospital "Zenit" and the Special Hospital "Opticus". The new Law on Human Cells and Tissues has laid down a simplified procedure for issuing authorisations to health institutions for carrying out jobs in human cells and tissues, as well as the establishment of a single information system in that area in order to establish and maintain a traceability system. One of the papers of these laws is the simplification of the consent procedure, which is very good. Thank you for your attention and the law is human, and I don't think there's any dilemma about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42740	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42741	Thank you. Since parallel to this debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues is being conducted and debated on social networks on the Internet, then in the yellow press, by cafes, etc. for the daily-political purposes, I would like those who are angry opponents of this bill to consider the following. All right, everyone has the right to prohibit in writing or oral form the donation of their organs, but there is the possibility that as a member of the family it also prohibits for one of their deceased family members, unless a member of the deceased has already declared it. But would you consider that in the event that this ban on donation means giving up your right or the right of a member of your family and prohibiting being a recipient or receiving an organ when you need it? So if a ban on giving at the same time meant giving up your own right to receive other people's organs, if you ever needed it, how would you think? Would you give up admission to other people's organs for yourself or for members of your family, for example, your children? I don't think so. You think again. Think about it as you attack the legislators of this law and the bill itself on social networks and in cafes. Think and don't be selfish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42742	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by the people sent by Radovan Jancic. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, with the aim of further defining the principles and showing that the humanist character of this law encourages not only the development of the health system, the pharmaceutical industry, all areas of health, the fields of scientific research, but the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which is the primary objective of SNS policy and the start of reform processes. It is of particular importance that the donation and receipt of human cells and tissues is based on respecting the priority interests of preserving life and health and protecting basic human rights and the dignity of the donor and recipient. Nothing is more important than the preservation of life and health, so it is of particular interest that the importance of organ donation and transplants is raised in a ranking topic of the highest public interest. If we judge by statistics and donor numbers in Serbia, it would be said that we are inhuman society, which is not true, if we know that in many situations we have shown solidarity and humanity. In organ donation, it's that we don't know enough about this subject, to conclude on the basis of stereotypes and to be burdened with prejudice. Signing a donor card doesn't cost anything, doesn't require effort, but it gives great hope to those who are life-threatening. More than a year ago, I signed it, and nothing has changed since. Or what happened to me, no one chased me, they didn't chop me up, or someone hit me at the walk-by. Finally, Mr. Minister, I congratulate you on the results achieved so far, on the care of the even development of health in general in all local self-government, with the invitation to place the accent in border areas in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42744	I thank my colleague Jancic. The 4th amendment was submitted by the People's Sentinel Dr Darko Laketic. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42745	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The law, the proposal for a law on cell and tissue transplants, and this Article 4 refers to this ethical aspect, the ethical dimension of the problem of transplants, the protection of basic human rights and donors, or donor cells and tissues, on the one hand and the protection of fundamental human rights and dignity of those who receive cells and tissues. I, above all, will have to look at several very important facts that we have heard in part, and in part we are not in the debate so far. In this debate, we have witnessed many exhibitions where certain half-truths, untruths and misinformation have been used and are related to this law, in order to inform citizens, I must say that, above all, the outcome for anyone who has read the law, the bill on cell transplants, tissues and organs, the outcome in terms of organ donation permits is practically identical to that of the previous applicable law. In fact, the nearest relative decides whether the organs will be donated or not. So the fundamental difference is that we won't have any more financial expenses. I'm talking about the administrative charge for the donor card, we're not going to have the cost of printing the donor cards. That's the fundamental difference. So the outcome at the end is identical. It's the decision of closest relatives. Besides, I think the motives, and I'm ending Mr. Chairman, I think that the motives of carrying out false things are just to cause public concerns, to cause anxiety, and I think that we, first of all, have succeeded in disinformation and defeating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42746	Thank you, colleague Laketić. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42747	Thank you, Chairman. As my colleagues have found several times today, here, this sad picture of empty benches across from us, I would like the cameras to show the citizens of Serbia how those who share mandates, not earned, not earned mandates, not received mandates in the elections share in various Monden resorts, in the mountains, in the cafes, where they all meet, in which they experience these serious topics that we have been trying to discuss and discuss for days and talk about the state of health. The health care situation is best known by those 7,000 employees of healthcare workers in KC Serbia and thousands of others throughout Serbia. The state of health and how SNS manages this sector within the Serbian government is best known to those between 15 and 20,000 people who pass through KC Serbia on a daily basis. They are also seeing those works that are being conducted today at the KC Serbia Emergency Centre. These people will also be witnesses tomorrow when a reconstruction contract and the restoration of Serbia's complete KC is signed. Nislji, hundreds of thousands of Nislji see how SNS takes care of health care through the most modern KC in this region. Also, it will be seen by the Novosadians, Kragujevci. All Serbia is witnessing that we no longer have waiting lists today, the whole of Serbia is witnessing a much better situation, not of course a great one, but much better than it was, but the whole of Serbia is a witness and that those who are gathering around Dragan Gilas today and their runners and the tycoon are witnessing that millions have disappeared from donations to health during the government and the yellow break-up of the peyto coalition. That's why that time in Serbia will never come back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42748	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42749	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law on human organs transplantation implies introducing an assumed consensus that all citizens of Serbia are potential donors, unless they explicitly reject it. However, family approval will continue to be sought so that the organs of their loved ones who are in a state of brain death can be used to transplant and extend their lives to those who are the only cure. There were 40 deceased donors in Serbia during 2017. 92 transplants were performed, of which 62 kidneys, 23 livers and seven heart transplants. Seven donors were recorded during January and February 2018 and 16 transplants were performed. Still, a large number of people are still waiting for a transplant. Unfortunately, too many organs fail because people die, and there is no possibility of being used for transplanting and surviving other patients. From one donor, a lot of people can live on. A good internal organisation of the transplant program is important. This involves the existence of national and hospital coordinators for this area, financial stimulation for people who do so in order to motivate and, of course, orderly system, responsible leadership, commitment and human work. As this law creates conditions for the promotion of human cell and tissue donations, it raises awareness of our citizens' importance of donation, the SNS will vote for this set of proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42750	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42751	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, with colleagues from the ministry, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I submitted to Article 4. The Law on Human Cells and Tissues, with the desire to contribute to much more talk and that many people know that they have the support of me as a man and as president of the United Peasant Party and the man who signed the donor card back in 2011. It was my wish at the time that by my example, I was then the President of the Community, to show by example that it was necessary, that this should be done. Now this law, the bill of law and other laws, gives us a great opportunity that if a bad situation comes, we can save people's lives. These people can be our closest, our family. It can be us and that's why I support a set of all these laws, because I think this is right, because I think the goal of all of us is to ensure, firstly, a better future and the health of all of our citizens in our Serbia. Otherwise, I have spoken several times and now I am saying that the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by the prime minister, now Serbian President Mr. Vukic, at that time you, ministers, were the same health minister, invested huge resources in developing health care in the territory of southeastern Serbia, invested in a new KC where it is important for all of us that people can have the opportunity at any moment to provide health care. Another big thing is that now that you're doing Corridor 10, you're going to be doing a helipad at KC Nis, and that's a big deal for all our citizens, for all those people who are going to go to Corridor 10. If an unwanted situation occurs, it can provide life for people at any time. Also, now I'm talking again, and I used to say, a large number of our small municipalities, like the ones I come from, have problems with big territory, with a small population. We, say, Svrlig and the surrounding municipalities next to Svrlig, had nine hospitals before, and the territory of the municipality was covered by these hospitals, and now because of the lack of personnel, we really want to ensure that these hospitals continue to be visited by doctors, nurses, because there are other old people, we are exhausted, and we need to give these people the maximum possibility that they can be treated, that they can be cured and finally have a safe age. Once again, I call upon you, dear ministers, to find the opportunity together to support small municipalities, small homes of health and to provide internal medicine and all the necessary aspects of specialist examinations, that people can live there and treat themselves in the best way, as people in large cities do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42752	On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42753	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, looking at the views of Articles 1 and 2, I think it is necessary to supplement the 3rd position that the humanist character of this law enables the development of health care in the Republic of Serbia. Transplanting of tissues and organs almost worldwide has become a practice of top medical institutions, thanks to which many people, who have been severely ill, have been sentenced to premature death, continue to live quality and dignity and are working. It's known that the transplant technique is over 70 years old. Its general application was delayed due to the occurrence of graph rejection i.e. transplanted tissue and organs. The discovery of new drugs to suppress immune mechanisms that the organism reacts to unknown substances introduced into it has made great progress in this area. This is certainly a century of transplants and we must prepare for a new phase of development of transplant programmes. We have to keep in mind that the lives of people whose organs are being canceled are turning into a struggle for a naked life and nothing more. What makes it more difficult for patients and such a difficult condition is waiting. These people in their misery seem to be waiting for something that will never come, and the only thing they're waiting for is a transplant that can change their life from the root. The agony, the fight, the bed, the hospital bed survives a large number of people in Serbia, and a small number of donors and it has to change, because it's enough just to be human. This is precisely why this law should be passed because it enables priority interests to be respected for the preservation of life and health, as well as the protection of fundamental human rights and dignity of the donor and recipient of human organs. Severe patients, including children, expect to have the right to be transplanted in their country, to be adequately treated, and we can help them through the provision of simple donation procedures...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42754	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42755	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this Law. For the viewers following this transmission, I will read this point 2. – in obtaining human cells and tissues from the deceased donor, treats the dignity of the deceased person and family members of the deceased and takes all necessary measures to restore the appearance of the deceased donor. Why did I read this? And for the sake of the viewers, I mean, especially since these days, it's been a little under attack here and these laws have been used to make the criminal and corrupt side of these laws humane, and this has been used to attack the minister, the government, directly and on the Wolf, but it's also a medical profession. Let me tell you, medical students, future doctors already in the third year of medicine, in pathology, get their first lesson in first autopsy – "mortui vivos docent" learns the living. In medical history, autopsy was useful. Everything we know from medical science is taught here. We tell the students at the first exercise that they have to behave with respect without any inappropriate behavior with only professional discussion. So, future doctors learn to respect the dignity of a dead person by the third year. Later on in the so-called In clinical cases, they learn to respect the patient and their medical science and doctrine. This human effort to learn from the first step in respecting the dignity of a deceased person until later should be respected and appreciated, not inappropriately attacked.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42756	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42757	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the purpose of all the amendments I have submitted and my discussions is to give a personal seal to this bill, the perfect bill of law as a man who knows what a transplant is, who survived, as a man who waited for a donor, as a man who was prepared for a transplant and the day before the radiation process, it's good that it was before the radiation process, the donor from Germany canceled my donation and I waited some next month for a young man from far away Minipolis, from America, who has insisted on it since the first moment that he was a donor to me. A young man who is my sons' age, 1993, who has extended my life, whom I may know, and perhaps not. Now, after five years, and we can get to know each other, because you who do health care and this science know that five years after which a transplanted man is thought to have healed, or he can never get better, but that this disease should not die, I hope neither do I, and that we can donor and I get to know each other. We met through the mail. I think this is a great bill. You, Mr. Minister, know how you work. I remember when we opened a reconstructed hospital internally in the King, when we talked about the Department of Hematology in the King that works successfully, which is dislocated and which should work the way it should, so I'd ask you in the context of all these papers on KBC to find a good place to transplant at the clinic, and to have leukemia 2 be space for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42758	Thank you. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42759	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Since the beginning of the year, I think it's more than enough for the citizens to realize that this is a very good law. Otherwise, those of you on the other side who respect us all day that we're passing a law where citizens won't know what it's about, it's not true. Members of the SNS are almost daily in contact with citizens and we have a policy, a clear goal and a clear policy ahead of us, and we do not serve the lies as those of the yellow company do. That's why they can only win Twitter and social networks, and we win where citizens give us their vote, and that's in the election. On this occasion, I would like to add more reasons to vote and support this law, and these are the results of the ministry. In fact, recently, Mr. Minister visited my town of Kruševac and managed to coordinate the work of Kruševac General Hospital with the Clinical Centre in Nis according to which the patients from Kruševec are gravitating and now instead of just one examination that was previously on the magnetic resonance, the citizens of Kruševac can have four reviews a week, which is really for every praise because this coordination is seen, and this is what the competent ministry took part in. About the successes and all that was done at Krushevac hospital, I think we've heard many times in this room. The state of health isn't so good. Of course it's still going, but it's all these reform laws that have been passed over the past few years, and everything that's been done shows that we're going towards a good path to make it all the way it was supposed to be long ago, but unfortunately 12 years of the rule of the yellow company has destroyed Serbia so much that it takes us many years to recover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42760	Thank you, colleague Barisic. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues on Article 4 by adding Article 3. The amendment aims to further define the basic principles of the law. This bill proposes that the area of human cells and tissues be based on the principle of solidarity, the principle of medical justification and the principle of equality. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues first defines in a precise and clear way which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues including all the conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit. Also, the bill requires the adoption of a human organ transplant programme involving both human cells and tissues and which will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which will define clear procedures and procedures concerning the organisation of teams and the financing of the overall process of human organs and human cells and tissues. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42762	I thank my colleague Mitrovica. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42763	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, when we talk about the growth of public health, as far as my amendments are concerned, I will present in my presentation the results of the work of the Ministry of Health for 2017, headed by Minister Loncar. There's a lot of them, but for the sake of time, I'll just mention some results. In 2017, the Eurotransplant board unanimously decided that Serbia would be accepted into the organisation. The membership agreement is signed for a year. The budget envisions 35 million for this purpose, and in addition, teams are strengthened by new, young doctors, a 24-hour transplant centre has been introduced and national transplant coordinators have been set up for 24 hours. In 2017, the Ministry of Health singled out 1.1 billion dinars for the treatment of rare diseases. 600 oncology doctors have been employed. Under the auspices of the Ministry of Health and the Clinical Centre of Serbia, construction of the most modern angiosala has been completed. For the purchase of protective equipment from ionic radiation, as well as the adaptation of space, close to 57 million dinars has been allocated. More than 55 children were referred to the budget fund's cost abroad or foreign doctors came to Serbia and more than 130 samples were sent abroad to diagnose. The budget fund provides for 246m dinars intended for children who need assistance. And in the first five months, 56 transplants were made out of 38 kidney transplants, 14 liver transplants and four heart transplants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42764	National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word, please sign up, the word has a People's MP, Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42765	I would first like to cheer Minister Loncar and say Valjevo got the endoscope, that Valjevska brewery donated 50,000 euros and that now Valjevo is in a position to solve these problems that could not be solved back a month. It's a great success for Valyev. On the other hand, I am in principle responsible for the enforcement of all the laws being put into effect, in office, in the focus of the minister. It's the minister who can commit the ministry, and vice versa, I don't think he can. The ministry can't be responsible and make a responsible minister. And these laws are good, because the minister has taken great responsibility on himself, above all, that there will be no abuse. And his past work, what he's done lately, is a sure guarantee that it'll get better and better and there won't be any problems in these laws and that this is one big step into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42766	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Desanka Repac. The word has a national letter from Desanka Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42767	Thank you. I welcome the minister with his associates. I have submitted to the law on cells and tissues an amendment that further defines the basic principles of the law. The law determines this area professionally and ethically. The expertise should talk about the importance of these laws and the safety of transplants. A tissue cell transplant procedure can only be performed if it is medically induced. It's a procedure, it's done in life-threatening people, and it's done in order to improve the quality of life. Taking organs is possible from a living donor or from a missing man. Since such a negative donor campaign and this law is under way, I would like to say, when it comes to cadaveric donors, that the public and family of cadavers must know that brain death is a final condition. It can't be reversible, it can't wake up a patient who's defined death. When brain death occurs, there is no chance of resuscitation, but the heart continues to work for up to 24 hours because it has its own autonomy. That heart rate is not a sign of life. Without the consent of relatives, there is no taking, or giving, those organs. The law defines the possibility of taking tissue after confirming death. One man who died can save 16 patients from transplants. We need to educate our citizens, inform them of everything that is related to the grant of a transplant. They need to overcome all prejudice and fear. This law should also respect the principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42768	Thank you, time. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42769	Thank you, Chairman. In the trend of the humanist aspect of the amendment that I have submitted, which speaks of the recovery of our health, I might just take a little further away from the amendment, but of course it has a complete connection and draw attention to an autoimmune disease that is becoming increasingly dominant in our society. We almost had the opportunity to have an international symposium on multiple sclerosis in the small hall of the municipality, with association and experts, where Dr. Laketić spoke and found out there, for me some fragrant data. Serbia has over 8,000 suffering from multiple sclerosis. Most of them are women and borders range from 60 to 50, as it was before, now it's 30 years old and going down, which is alarming. I don't need to tell you that. I know you know that well. Today there are new innovative medicines and treatments in the world, extremely expensive, up to $60,000 is therapy for the primarily progressive forms of the disease. What's very important to me and what I want to pass on to you, whether you know it or not, is good for the public to know. Of course, this is not just my personal mind, it is a consultation with President SANU Dr Kostic and Professor Jelena Drulovic, who is the largest European and one of the major European authorities, as far as this disease is concerned, who say that by investing in innovative medicines and therapy, more than 50% of these sufferers would be able to work. I will say that almost everyone with that diagnosis MS is immediately retired and receiving other people's care and help. So the state has to be very good at assessing and this is about saving, not spending. It's good to assess whether investing in innovation, treating multiple sclerosis, we can get working people who can do eight hours of their work on a computer, doing all the jobs they've done so far, and that the state benefits from that. Finally, as far as the law itself is concerned, that today and these days we have only listened to Mr. Zoran Bojanic, a witness who is the recipient of the organ, I think it would be enough to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42770	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42771	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through the adoption of a proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, conditions will be created to promote the giving and raising awareness of citizens about the importance of giving, as well as the organisation of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, which, in all stages, respecting the principles of traceability, will ultimately improve the quality of health care provided in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice. This law allowed every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia to prohibit in writing or oral form the giving of their tissues, as well as the possibility for family members to do so at the time of death, if the deceased person has not made a statement about it, while the information consent of the legal representative or guardians is necessary in terms of minor citizens. The adoption of this law deprives the patient's waiting time for the necessary tissue, as the likelihood of finding a donor from the national registry is the fastest. The establishment of a clear and transparent system in the area of human cells and tissues will increase confidence in this system, primarily on the principles of voluntary and unpaid giving, with a view to providing quality and safety cells and tissues. In voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42772	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42773	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, respected Mr. Martinovic, I also address you because you are the only president of the 17 parliamentary groups in this high House, and Mr. Milicevic, who holds the presidency. This speaks of your relationship, not only to this high House, but also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There's no more humane act than when someone's organ extends life to another man. The humanistic character of this law will contribute to the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, this will contribute to the general medical conditions, especially the mental health of every citizen, including the mental health of us MPs. If Prof. Dr. Dusan Pavlovic, a respected MP, had quality general medical conditions, he would not distribute porn films from his Facebook and thus cause inconceivable damage to this parliament and also to the professor's profession. I'm sure it's Professor Dr. Dusan Pavlovic, called Dusan Porn, was influenced by cannabis, as a psychoactive substance, since he was here all the time advertising cannabis oil. I call on Professor Dusan Pavlovic, called Dusan Pornjan, to resign to the post of MP, and thus at least launder a little from this high house that he did with his irresponsible procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42774	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Vera Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42775	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, I submit an amendment to Article 4 of the Law, which adds Article 3 which reads - the humanist character of this law encourages the overall development of Serbia, with a special reference to improving the health system. This bill lays down the conditions for achieving the quality and safety of human cells and tissues in the human population, but at the same time, in a clear and unequivocal way, it also defines the role of health institutions in this area and sets out steps in achieving the basic objective, which is to establish a very high quality of safety and safety of the application of stem cells. This makes the level of health care and care for the Serbian population as high as possible, because the health of the population and their quality of life should be a priority for all of us. It is therefore necessary to educate the population in the function of donor and stem cell influence on each organism, as well as the way and methods of application of stem cells in the treatment of many diseases, which I spoke of in the previous amendment. Many local self-governments do not have adequate institutions, nor do they have an adequate professional staff to care more intensively and deal with this problem, but preventative centres at health homes do education through the stands and through lectures. If stem cells are preserved, at age they can be used to treat heart attack, stroke, atherosclerosis. The price of 29 euros per month is not a large figure given the effects that are achieved if the disease occurs. If donor tissues match and match, they can be used when treating parents, as well as brothers and sisters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42776	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42777	I thank the chairman. Serbian citizens for healthcare stand out 10.4% of gross social income, which is one important piece of information if we consider that 20% of the budget goes to health care, not only to health workers, institutions, employees, but also to investment. That's why a law like this requires a full and stable budget. The Serbian government has shown that the economic reforms and fiscal consolidation were the need for Serbia to move forward and thus to develop health care and at all the laws we have on the agenda today, I cannot unless we have one economic stability. Humanity, nobility, solidarity and charity are also the basis of this law, but today we have the opportunity to hear, and we need to repeat for the public, that free will is in fact the basis of this law that applies to both patients and the patients' families, but also to those who are waiting for organ transplants to extend their lives. What is important to say is that it is completely hypocritical by opposition parties, who have united in the fact that it is identical to the adoption of this law with the morbid war activities of the KLA and ANE in Kosovo, which took place in the war facts that really represented the Serb state's sunflower and this identification only goes in favour of marketing those who today represent so-called. The republic of Kosovo, which simply pressures negotiations in Brussels, when we talk about Belgrade and Pristina's relationship and simply work in favour of Serbia's damage. With this law and a statement by the minister, which says he will answer all insults with responsibility for human life, the need to adopt such a law in parliament is real.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42778	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a folk proverb that says - a healthy man has a lot of wishes and only one sick to heal. Mr. Minister, all those to whom this is funny and this discussion which is thrown out by the law and the discussion and the Assembly, so try not to mind you, too. They don't know what it looks like or how a man can be fulfilled, I can only tell when he saves someone's human life, and you do that job. They don't know how a man can be filled with happiness and satisfaction when he does something good for his country, for his people. Because they don't know, they're all funny, they're all critical, they're all politics, they're all, I think, and some phobia about stealing, abuse, treason. Here, I'm not surprised this law would be an act of high treason. But to get back to the beginning of the discussion, a sick man only has one wish, that's to heal. I don't want them to have just that one wish. I really don't want to do this to anyone, not in this room, not their families, not any Serbian citizen. But it seems to me that my wishes and these difficult experiences of patients or people who have been killed in some accidents are not enough for us all to get serious here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42780	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42781	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is heading towards supporting the policy of overall development, that is, the policy led by the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a very human law that will promote voluntary organ and tissue donation to save human lives. So I can rightly say that this bill represents the greatest achievement of humanity. The state of Serbia has had huge investments in the area of health care in previous years. Many homes of health, hospitals, clinical centres and in Leskovac, in the city where I come from, have been renovated, huge funds have been allocated for the development of health care. There is almost no infirmary in the territory of the city that has not been renovated and there is almost no department at the General Hospital in Leskovec where there has been no major investment. On the importance of opening a clinical centre for citizens of southern Serbia, I find it unnecessary to speak. As the final result of this law, we will have an increased number of successfully performed organ transplants and reduced waiting lists for organ transplants. So the final result will be saving people's lives. That is why I call on my fellow Members of Parliament to support this law in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42782	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42783	Thank you, Chairman. In a number of newly opened health institutions in the last five years since the SNS took over to run Serbia's policy, the Institute of Oncology and Radiology of Serbia, which in May this year, after eight decades of establishment, also won Onkology 2, the new building and the most modern equipment. The treatment conditions of patients with malignancies in this institute will be leveled with European standards. Three of the most modern linear accelerators were purchased for the Institute, one CT simulator, as well as accompanying radio therapy equipment. Construction works on a building covering 1,200 square meters have been completed. The value of the investment is 8.9m euros, of which about 6.4m euros was invested in equipment and about 2.4m euros in construction works. Oncology 2 will conduct radiation therapy. He's investing in new specialists for this institute, and some doctors went to training all the way to Japan. Serbia will finally respect the European standard, which is one apparatus for 250,000 citizens. Besides the apparatus, the entire investment is immeasurable because of the importance it will have for the sick, as well as for the members of their family, i.e. for all of our society. Serbia's government won't stop here. It will continue to invest in the health of its citizens, because without a healthy nation there is no progress in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42784	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jolovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42785	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Article 4 of this proposal, the principles in the field of human cells and tissues are defined. The principle of protection of interest and dignity, solidarity, medical justification and security, as well as the principle of equality further defines how procedures can be carried out, which should be respected, and what priorities in the course of interventions of this species. The reason for the amendment is the fact that the humanist character of this law encourages the development of health care in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as the organisation of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, thus improving the quality of health care in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, i.e. with the European Union regulations in this area, in all stages, with respect to the principles of traceability. Since all the new solutions proposed by this Bill refer to a matter which could not be regulated by another legal act, and given the extent of the amendments proposed, the adoption of a new law on human cells and tissues is the only option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42786	Thank you. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42787	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The law on human cells and tissues, in order to further highlight the human aspect of this law, but also put a special accent on improving medical conditions. This law for the first time defines what conditions all institutions need to meet in order to deal with transplants. So far, there has been a problem that has not been precisely defined and therefore this law represents a new and qualitative step. The law has a special weight and, with the establishment of these legal provisions, adequate promotion of the transplant process itself needs to be carried out. It is indeed a sensitive subject and it is therefore important to point out those essential things, that it is assumed consent when it comes to donorship, that each individual can express himself explicitly by written means or verbally that he does not want to be a donor of organs, but that in any case the family is asked, gives the last opinion and the last word and if the family opposes, i.e. Don't agree, the transplant won't happen. There's really no room for doubt and for the negative campaign that we have on social networks these days. The process is quite transparent and the whole process is done by a whole team of experts who care about making sure everything is safe, justified and that it is a dignified approach both to the donor and to the patient. It is certain that, after the adoption of the regulations, the European register of donors will also open, so that our waiting lists will be shorter and that our patients will have a much greater chance of healing. It is certain that more investment will be needed in equipment and in the Biomedicine Administration itself, in the equipment of teams, with the cooperation of our Agency for Transplantation with the administrations of other countries, but it is all in the interest of the patients to whom this is the only salvation. There's really no room for controversy and doubt, the process is transparent, it's about humanity, it's about solidarity, and we need to raise awareness about this subject and break prejudice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42788	Thank you, colleague Turk. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42789	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, crowded waiting rooms, long waiting lists, looking for connections or who has material opportunities and treatment in private, it was an illustration of the real state of the health system in 2012. Such a fact condition has conditioned that the European Health Consumer Index, which analyses national health systems based on 48 indicators, which includes areas such as patients' rights and information, treatment outcomes, access to health care, scope and scope of services, prevention and use of pharmaceutical products, ranks Serbia as the last on the list of 34 European countries. Such a negative trend was halted by the arrival of SNS to power, when it began continuing progress on this list, which was made during 2015 and 2016, in order to take 20th place on Serbia's latest 2017 list of health systems, and behind Serbia, including members of the European Union, including Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and Greece. The latest list is the confirmation of a positive trend launched in 2014 and has been created as a result of significant material investment, reforms, modernisation, as well as new health policies aimed at preserving and improving Serbia's health and quality of life. The most observed results in 2017 are the continuation of information on the health system, the introduction of an electronic recipe, the shortened waiting time for treatment of oncological patients since the consular decision, the improved state of mental health, and record results in the organ transplant area. In the belief that a positive trend will continue in removing the many adverse consequences in this area and achieving the objectives of the proposed law, the SNS parliamentary group will support this and other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42790	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Filipovski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42791	Dear Minister, you will agree with me that without a healthy nation there is no progress in any country. Therefore, constant concern about the health of citizens, the constant increase in the capacity of health services and the institution must remain at the top of our priorities. Unfortunately, colleagues who criticise this law do not distinguish between actual arguments and the real reasons for the adoption of this law, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I would say, their delusions and their political beliefs. That is why it is important that, with the adoption of this law, we need to work harder than we have so far to ensure that the prejudices that exist in our donor society are broken, we need to work to promote organ giving and develop awareness that adopting this law should be difficult for citizens to give a chance for a new life. In addition, it tells everything that has been done in the field of health care, from the employment of healthcare professionals and doctors, to the fact that young doctors have been given the opportunity to enroll specializations, to adapt health institutions, clinical centres, and to equip with the most modern appliances. Therefore, this law is another important step to advance our health system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42792	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42793	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of this law will provide the necessary conditions for health institutions that carry out the work of the bank of cells and tissues and hospitals for the donation of tissues, hence the system of issuing or withdrawing authorisations to carry out this activity, enables the highest standard in this area to be met in accordance with the conditions laid down by this law and the sublaws adopted for the implementation of this law. Since the transplantation of haematoposis stem cells is a significant modern form of treatment for many acquired and innate diseases, and for some successful therapy, this would reduce the number of patients who refer to treatment abroad and achieve significant savings from the Republic of Serbia's health insurance fund. All tasks in the field of human organ transplantation shall be carried out in accordance with the relevant professional standards, professional guidelines and ethical principles, as well as the quality and safety requirements of human transplant bodies prescribed by this law. Health institutions that carry out tasks in the field of human organs transplantation, conduct documentation and ensure the traceability of all obtained, obtained and transplanted and unused human organs in the Republic of Serbia, from the donor to the recipient and vice versa. The Biomedicine Administration shall ensure that the unique system of identification of the donor and the recipient is applied in order to allow the traceability of the organ from the donor to the recipient associated with it. The documentation provided for in this provision shall be kept for 30 years in writing and electronic form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42794	Thank you, colleague Grubor. The 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Radčević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42795	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in previous talks, I have pointed out the need to raise the level of health services to a higher level, not to solve this problem, we heard during the debate. We've heard he invests in buildings, hospitals and health care homes, invests in professional training of health workers. I must point out that during the previous period, much has been invested in equipment and basic resources for the work of medical staff. The local self-government in Aleksinc has invested a lot in primary protection during the previous period, and it is planned to continue with this practice in the future. The funds were provided and three vehicles were purchased for the transport of patients on dialysis. A new ultra sound has been purchased, a new autoclave has been purchased, and much more importantly, all debts inherited from the previous period and finally the home of health have no debt. From all of this, we see that we are seriously working in the field of health, and as a result we have these laws ahead of us. In Voting Day, I will support all the bill proposals, and I call on my colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42796	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42797	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, all my amendments address the recovery of health care and I have spoken about it in previous talks. Progress is visible, which is very important, investments are evenly deployed in the territory of the entire country, so in every city and every municipality, citizens can see at least part of the effort and work to raise health care to a higher level. Not even the rural environments should be forgotten, one of the colleagues already mentioned it, which means that local self-governments have come out to meet the rural population and opened the infirmarys. The benefit is certainly double, because citizens do not have to drive home to health care, and in health homes the crowds are also reduced. The local self-governments that have provided such a service include the Borska local self-government that I come from. I'm also going to refer briefly to the Law on human organ transplants, because I want to support humanity, because I think humanity is precious and it's the most unselfish act. I want human people, donors watching this session, to get an unequivocal message of gratitude and admiration from here. As long as there are people who are willing to help those in need, fewer lives will be lost, fewer families will suffer for their loss, so thank you to the dedicated doctors and thank all donors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42798	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tarbuk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42799	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Honorable Minister Loncar with his associates, respected and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the adoption of a bill on human cells and tissues has a humanitarian character. It is necessary to develop awareness among people for the voluntary giving of human cells and tissues in order to extend life to people who need it. Our society needs more donors, and I believe that the adoption of this law will go that way since citizens will trust the health system of the Republic of Serbia more, because this area will be precisely defined by law, abuse cannot be. It will also comply with EU standards. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues has simplified the process of giving and consenting to tissue donation, increasing the number of donors in the national register, the donor is faster available. By proposing and passing this law under which the government of the Republic of Serbia's will to improve and improve and regulate the health system and thus better conditions for the benefit of the health system. Mr. Lonchar, you and your associates sit here with us for days and answer all our questions and you have time to explain everything to us. I'm very grateful for that because you've been studioy and you've told us which direction our health care will continue to go. Once again, as a man, I want to thank you for increasing the salary in the health sector by the end of the year, said the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, and then absolutely trust me. This law is excellent, when it comes to living in full capacity it will do a lot of these works, so my fellow MPs ask to vote in favour of this law, of course, if they have the strength and time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42800	Thank you. The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miloevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42801	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as well as in the previous amendment in the mentioned article 3 and in this article, we can be guided by the same principles of the need to regulate provisions in order to clearly develop the Republic of Serbia. The importance of moving forward with the most developed societies is important in all layers of social flows, from economic, social and environmental, to most likely the most important health care. I mentioned and added to the development, how important it is to invest in improving the health sector. At the end of this address on this subject of the amendment, I will only mention another positive example that took place in the municipality of Arangelovac. On the basis of the decision to grant funding for the co-financing of the units of local self-government, the municipality of Arangelovac has been allocated more than 15 million dinars to implement the project to help children and parents while local self-government will participate with just over five million dinars. The municipality of Arangelovac has applied for the purchase of an ultrasound apparatus for the examination of baby hips that will be in the service of home health, and in addition, the funds will be invested in the reconstruction of the “Sun” kindergarten. This is another one in a series of major projects conducted by the municipality of Arangelovac in co-operation with the competent ministries of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and as you can see most of the funds will be used and invested in the development of the health sector. We hope there will be more projects like this in the future for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Arangelovec and all other cities of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42802	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42803	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the foundation of health promotion is public health policy, where health becomes a centre and a backbone of all policies of the government of a country, to optimise health, productivity, as well as the overall quality of life for the population and reduce health inequalities. The patient is placed at the centre of the healthcare system, through the clear definition of his rights in health insurance, the protection of human rights and the respect of his will and the security of consent for all procedures related to his health and health care. We're seeing a lot of progress here. Since 2012, we have been on the list of European health systems in 20th place, ahead of eight EU countries. Thank you for restoring your reputation to Serbia from your area. In addition to everything said today, I would like to point out that the ministry, in addition to improving the working conditions and obtaining modern appliances, has made a major shift in the approximation and relief of the population that through free checks and disease prevention we have a healthy population. Because health is the largest national resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42804	Thank you. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Janošević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42805	Thank you, Chairman. You know, when the laws come into the congregation procedure, then they're on the agenda, it's normal for someone to support those laws, someone to say against them, it's about time they were adopted, and someone to say it's not time for them yet. However, I believe that this is normal in parliamentaryism, but we cannot possibly get into a situation where someone says they don't agree with these laws. It is necessary to make a single conclusion – yes, I agree, I will vote for the adoption of this law. Whoever doesn't support it and who isn't up for the adoption of these laws is simply inhuman. And they must not in any way influence standing in the way of people who need another organ in order to heal. They do not have to have donor status, however, must enable those who want it to have a donor card. Such thinking has greatly affected the fact that rural settlements and villages in our municipalities cannot develop. The current government of the Republic of Serbia through local self-government allows the development of local self-government and so is Zrenjanin. Recently, it was possible for the inhabitants of Jankov Mosta to get a new infirmary, after three decades, as well as to renovate the infirmary in Melenci, to allow development and progress in the work of the healing spa Rusand, but also the settlements of Green Field and Sava Kovacevic also received new hospitals. They will certainly remember that, with the help of the SNS, as well as during the term of office of Alexander Vukic, Resolute Minister Zlatibor Lončar, their safer health system is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42806	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bagby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42807	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, since this is my last amendment to this law, I will use the time to explain it to remind you all of the disastrous situation that we have inherited from previous authorities in Serbia's health, but also of the enormous efforts and significant resources that the government of the Republic of Serbia, first led by the then prime minister and current Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the current republican government, led by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, would be invested to bring the level of work of health institutions and services that they provide to citizens throughout Serbia back to normal conditions. Despite the fact that the inherited problems were enormous, as well as that health care separations were insufficient, and with such separations, the Government of the Republic of Serbia managed to significantly recover the health system, to arrange it, make it functional, and to do an extremely large amount of work on its modernisation, primarily through the purchase of new modern equipment, with which some of our health institutions stood side by side with the world's best health centres. With her daily work and maximum commitment, this authority has managed to restore citizens' trust in the health system after many years, to provide them with security and timely and quality health care and assistance. For all of this, I will take the opportunity to finally commend the pledge and work, both Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42808	Thank you. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Popovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42809	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia further raises the standard of citizens by making good laws, decisions and regulations. The use of an electronic recipe today is standard in more than 90% of health institutions in Serbia. Patients no longer have to go to the selected doctor once a month, but once every six months. The crowds in the waiting rooms have been reduced, and doctors can focus more on patients who need urgent help. By the end of the year, the introduction of an electronic health card is also expected, and this will complete the health information process in our country. In addition to large and constant investments in health infrastructure, the Ministry of Health continues with good practice in the employment of young experts and the assignment of specializations. Over the next few weeks, the top medical school graduates are getting jobs at health institutions in Serbia. The Youth Doctors' Employment Initiative will not be completed with this, but will, at every six months, deliver to the Ministry of Medicine the lists with the names of the best graduates who finished in time and with the best grades. Let us add to this the fact that in the past few years, thanks to the good decision of the Ministry of Health, a ban on the award of specialization has been lifted and so far over six thousand young doctors have received specializations, especially from the deficitary branches of medicine. With its responsible policies and activities, the Ministry of Health makes a full contribution to the process of our country's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42810	Thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42811	After so much praise by these members of the government, ministers and ministries, the only conclusion would be that we don't really need the Ministry of Health at all anymore, given that you've solved all possible problems. But, of course not, and special problems will arise in the application of this law if, hopefully, they will not be applied, we believe that the Constitutional Court will accept our initiative and declare these disputed provisions of this law unconstitutional. Article 5 speaks of the principle of solidarity. It's cells and tissues, but it's the same when it comes to human organs, that is, this other law. You're now saying that donations are voluntary, without financial compensation, etc. And we ask you, when you're taking human organs from living people this way, without the consent of the one whose organs you're taking, why didn't you at least predict that families who give you consent give you a certain fee? Not because they would sell those organs to their relatives, but simply because it's real, because you're going to get money for those organs too, so we don't see why you didn't see it coming? You said here – a living donor's fee during temporary prevention for work. It's sick and it's completely pointless. Or – justifiable compensation regarding the payment of health or other services related to the taking of human cells and compensation in the event of excessive damage that we do not know who will determine, as we do not know, and who will determine that someone is brain death to take his organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42812	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic proposed amendments to the article with one amendment. 8, 9, 10, 11, 17, 18, 20, 22, 26, 29, 30, 32, 33, 36, 37, 39, 41, 46 and 48. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Vukadinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42813	Just for a moment, as an illustration of how we have submitted constructive amendments, that the Ministry has respected, or the Ministry responsible for what was on the line of their concept, and that we should not be angry, there are plenty of people who are angry if we differ in other strategic matters. I think it would be much better if such amendments were submitted and a constructive discussion was conducted, regardless of what is involved in the legal and technical matter that does not change the essence. I am sorry that there was no hearing that even though some MPs of the ruling majority are not, that we are trying to make sure that what is positive for these laws is implemented, and that what is negatively removed or which is not acceptable, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, that it is removed during further application, which I also believe, as well as some other colleagues will not come, because it will probably be either corrected by the Ministry itself or the Constitutional Court will declare that part of the law invalid.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42814	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Nenad Christmas, LJupka Mihajlovska proposed amendments to the article with one amendment. 9, 14, 22, 23, 25, 28, 29, 31, 35, 36, 38 and 52. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 16th Amendment, MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted to the title above the 22nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42815	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the debate, we have heard several times that when minors are without parental ageing, as are those who have been completely or partially deprived of their business ability to agree to take tissue and organs, that it is merely an ethical committee of institutions and that it is not possible to involve a legal representative in making a decision, because it is not by law. So it is said that underage and adult protégés have guardians who decide on them, or protect their interests, but only while they are alive. As we know, the donation and donation process is one complex job and taking cells and tissues and organs from the dead person is taken at the time when the brain death is declared to be determined, i.e. by specific procedures, and it is said that the shortest period between the two clinical examinations of the donor, which determines the complete termination is six hours in adults and 12 hours in persons up to 12 years of age, so I ask you whether in those six or 12 hours, is the person legally treated alive or not? If death has not been officially determined, there is still time to include the guardian, which means it is by law, which in that case will decide whether tissue and organs can be taken from his protégé. And finally, I have to say that the statement by my colleagues, so I'm going to quote, says, "When a man dies, he doesn't own his organs." It's scandalous and just confirms our suspicions of your good intentions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42816	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42817	Serbian citizens should know that Zlatibor Loncar, the minister of health in the government of the Republic of Serbia, has deceived them. He said this law is a simplified consent to organ donation. That is simply not true, because in this law the citizens of Serbia should know that your consent is gone. Supposedly by Zlatibor Loncar and those who wrote this law to have your consent. You who are Eurofanatics and are seeking Serbia's entry into the EU, which Serbia will never enter because it will fall apart before, you have also deceived along with Zlatibor Loncar, who wrote it in an explanation, that one of the EU directives explicitly advocates such a model that under certain conditions, everything is clearly defined and clearly stated in that directive that the conditions must be met before the law implements so-called. ‘proposed consent’. I'm sorry that my colleague Martinovic, who was Dr. Legal Science, didn't want to get into this more detail so he could look at the parallel practice, and he even had one big guff the day before, did Mr. Martinovic, when you were talking about the Law of Inheritance...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42818	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42819	You should have defined yourself as something that is a practice in a world where there was no such negative public opinion. A little while ago, an excellent lawyer might be mad at me for insisting on it, Mrs. Radeta said there should be some sort of compensation. If you'd gotten into it a little bit, maybe Professor Djukic knows about it, there's a so-called English law in it. The law on a uniform anatomical gift. You could take the practice of other non-EU countries and be human in action. This is how you'll fall in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42820	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Despotovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42821	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, tissue, cells and organs are taken from a potential donor when brain death occurs, and the heart and lungs are maintained with the help of the apparatus. The man is then medically and legally dead. Also, it's possible to break up but drastically under electrical apparatus of the brain most medical devices can't register. There are not half the hospitals in Serbia, and this bill says it has yet to be obtained. First, this law must not enter into force until all hospitals have the most modern equipment that will be able with great precision to determine brain death. Second, the deceased’s family must be clearly pictured in the exact state of man and the meaning of organ donation. Many will take this condition as if there's still hope, that their loved ones are still alive, but still, they need to know. When a mother hears that her child's heart is still beating and the doctors want to start extracting organs, if it's not from the medical profession, she can just faint. This law does not provide for a way to declare to the family the condition of the patient, but has been left to each individual physician to decide how to explain it to them. As a result, it was a better previous law that meant the signing of donor cards. Then every man could be informed of what it means to be a donor, and what it means to be a donor, and then decide for himself what happens to his body. This is what was left for their sisters, brothers, father, mother to make this decision for him at such a difficult time. The next healthy logic, now should be less donor, and you expect more and that's what's suspicious, but time will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42822	Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together on Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament MPs of the Dveri group submitted together to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. On time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42823	He's not on time, he's working this parliamentary unit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we MPs of the SRS have repeatedly stressed during the debate that these bill proposals are bad, while MPs are the ruling majority of praises, and we're not quite sure they think so. You've often told us MPs of the opposition not to talk this way about these bill proposals, that by any chance one of our relatives was in a situation where he needed a transplant. Well, gentlemen, I didn't think I'd have to say this, but I'm going to tell you, unfortunately, that my brother about my uncle was a longtime kidney patient who's been on dialysis for a long time and needed a kidney transplant. Unfortunately, he didn't wait. He passed away at age 24. So my personal tragedy didn't make me say these bill proposals were good. On the contrary, so as not to result in a variety of abuses, when applying this so-called. Your assumed consent, we have criticised this law and we doubt your good intentions and that this law, as it is, will live.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to let you know that the time that belonged to the applicants of the amendment is in accordance with Article 158(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, spent. Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42825	I want to thank the MPs immensely for the constructive debate. I want to thank all the citizens who have shown interest in this area, for the sick, for this law that is passed for them and who will mean to them. I want to repeat that this law is the work of our best experts, the experiences of others who have had a serious result in this area so far. I want to tell the citizens to make sure that everything is done in this law so that there is no abuse. I want to apologize to the citizens for having to listen to and what is not related to this law and everything that is not related to patients whose life means this law. I appeal to citizens not to be angry at those who wanted to collect political points and spread disinformation during this debate. Don't be angry, though, they're just coming from themselves. She's the only one in the head of malfeasance, abuse and crime. This law only has one good intention to help those people who have no choice but to transplant. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-23-1.u42826	Thank you. Members of Parliament of the Free Members have jointly submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to the 44th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs of the Free MPs together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament of the Free Members have jointly submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the Assembly of the Dveri together submitted to the 54th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Transplanting of Human Organs You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendments of the People's MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandr Stevanović, Nenad Bozic, LJupke Mihajlovska, in an article. 23nd and 52nd. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted the amendment to the proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Head and above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinovic proposed amendments to the article with one amendment. 1, 3rd and 41st. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Alessandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of Chapter II above Article 4 of the amendment, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Under the name of Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic proposed amendments to the article with one amendment. 9, 11, 12, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 40, 42, 43, 46, and 48. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament of the Free Members proposed amendments to Article 1 of the amendment. 13, 17, 20, 23, 26, 32, 33, 37, 39, 52 and 53. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, proposed after article 16a, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Verica Rade submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nada Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Psychoactive Controled Substances You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta and MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday 24 July 2018, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
