ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30517	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 141 MPs are present in the hall, and we have conditions for continuing work. Today, he informed us that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Aleksandar Chotric. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 32 of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the foreign law proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on foreigners to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted six MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the SDS-NS parliamentary group and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30518	I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 135 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has voted for – 10 against – 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 135 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 134 MPs for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 14, no one, 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 132 MPs for – 15. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 10 against – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one, have voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 131 MPs for – 15. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 130 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 121 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 125 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 132 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare, six, against one, no one, abstentioned, has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, have voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 125 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 131 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for - four, against - one, abstention - 141 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—two, was voted by 140 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, two, voted 129 MPs for – 14 against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 125 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 137 of the Messengers of the people, for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—two, voted 131 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 133 MPs for – 11 against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 131 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 131 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 141 people's messenger. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted 135 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 131 MPs for – 11 against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted 135 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 128 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 133 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 129 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 132 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 119 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 134 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – 15, against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 2nd Amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, was voted by 134 messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dr Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 122 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 131 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 129 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two people. 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has voted 141 people's messengers for – two, against – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 128 MPs for – 15. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 129 MPs for – 14, against – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS-NS group and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the amendment's 3rd text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 129 MPs for – 14, against – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against one, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, voted 129 MPs for – 15. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 133 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 137 of the Messengers of the people, for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 138 MPs for—seven, against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 135 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Krsto Jaljušević submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 130 MPs for – 15 against – the abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 120. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – 19, against – no one, abstention – no one, voted 126. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Studenka Kovacevic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 124. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 3rd Amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment tabled by the People's MP, Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, abstentioned – one voted 132. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – 19, against – no one, abstention – no one, voted 126. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: six, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 130. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 130. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 132. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 129. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 132. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Boban Birmancevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 142. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 131. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, together Verica Radeta, Marina Ristic and Milorad Mircic and seven MPs from the Dveri group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 143. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 140. Can not get folder: %s: %s On Article 4th of the amendment tabled by Parliament MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 139. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 128. Can not get folder: %s: %s The MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, abstention – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 138. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 135 for – 11, v. Can not get folder: %s: %s Member of the Parliament of the People's Republic of Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 136. Can not get folder: %s: %s Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 134. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 140. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 139. Can not get folder: %s: %s Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 139 for – seven against. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 137. Can not get folder: %s: %s On Article 4 of the amendment submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 137. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 130. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 136. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 139 for – seven against. Can not get folder: %s: %s National MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 135. Can not get folder: %s: %s The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 14, for – 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by 125 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 139 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 134 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger for six. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for – seven against – 140 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 131 a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for – seven against – 140 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for – seven against – 140 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 137 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger for six. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for – seven against – 140 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 5th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 144 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger for six. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 139 people's messengers in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger for six. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for seven, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for four, no one, abstentioned, no one voted 144 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 137 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljković. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 132 MPs for – 15 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 137 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 133 MPs for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – six, against – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 19, against – 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 144 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – 11 against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 135 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 144 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted for 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 141 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Fifth Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, together Nikola Savic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet and seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 145 MPs for – two, against – one, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one, have voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, no one, abstentioned, one, has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, no one, abstentioned, one, has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 10 against – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, eight, none of the Messengers of the people, voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – 10 against – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against one, abstention - one, there was no vote of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—one, the abstentioned—there is no vote, not 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Ivana Stojiljković. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 17, against – one, abstention – two, 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojiljkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, voted 141 people's messengers for—seven against—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP general, Dr Milovan Krivokapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 10 against – 138 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 126 MPs for – 22 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, was voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven against—there is no one who has voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one abstention – there is no vote, there is no vote of 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 10 against – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was filed by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party-The People's Party group and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has voted for – seven, against – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 138 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 129 MPs for – 18. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – 11 against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 138 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has no vote of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two. 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – five, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against one, abstention - one, there was no vote of 137 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—16 against—no one who has been abstaining—no one has voted for 129 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 137 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, prim. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 137 of the Messengers of the people, for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstention—two, voted 140 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has ever voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 135 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - no one, abstentioned - one, was voted by 140 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS-NS parliamentary group and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, abstention, no one voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 133 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against one, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted 139 people's messengers for six. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 137 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against one, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against one, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 134 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 131 MPs for – 15. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbiaslav Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for seven, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—two, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 134 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, voted for—16 for—129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare, six, against one, no one, abstentioned, has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 128 MPs for – 18. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – six, against – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 136 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 140 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for four against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 130 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 11 against – 135 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was filed by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for - three, against - one, the abstentions - there is no vote, 142 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 126 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by 127 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 135 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 139 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—four against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted for 136 of the Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who has been abstained—no one has voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, and there is no one who has voted for 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 132 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted for 136 of the Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 127 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one who has ever voted for 128 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 128 MPs for – 15. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 139 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 128 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 131 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 128 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 139 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, prim. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 11 against 134 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, voted 129 MPs for – 15. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for four, no one, abstentioned, two, voted 139 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—16 against—no one who has been abstaining—no one has voted for 129 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions has voted 124 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 130 MPs for – 15 against – the abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 130 MPs for – 15 against – the abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 139 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against one, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 140 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, 144 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 10th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS-NS group and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 140 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, who is abstentioned, voted for—13, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 17 against – 126 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for nine, there is no one who has voted 134 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 133 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, and there is no one who has voted for 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, was voted by 140 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, doc, submitted to the 10th Amendment. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who has been abstained—no one has voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, was voted by 134 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four, none of the messengers of 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 125 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 10 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted with 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 130 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 143 MPs have not voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 130 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted with 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted for 136 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who is 134 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for - five, against - one, abstention - 137 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 143 MPs have not voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted with 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 10, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 133 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 11th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 142. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 13th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 14 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one with abstention—no one voted 142 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 16th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one with abstention—no one voted 142 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 18th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 19th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 20th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 21st amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. On Article 22 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 142. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 23rd amendment in the same text. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am declaring: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one, with abstention – voted 143. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 25 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 26 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 27 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. I find the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 28th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. Can not get folder: %s: %s On Article 29 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has ever voted 142 MPs in favour of—two, against—no one who is abstentioned. Can not get folder: %s: %s On Article 30 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. Can not get folder: %s: %s On the 31st amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 143 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. On Article 32 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 142. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 33 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. Can not get folder: %s: %s On the 34th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 35th amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 36 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 142. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 37 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one with abstentions has ever voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 38 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – no one voted 142. Can not get folder: %s: %s Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 39th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one abstentioned—no one voted 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 40th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one abstentioned—no one voted 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one abstentioned—no one voted 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted. 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the same amendment's 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted. 143 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one abstentioned—no one voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the same amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one abstentioned—no one voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the same amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been restrained. No one has voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the amendment 46th. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the same amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs of the Dveri group submitted to the 48th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 48th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has voted, has ever voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 49th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 50th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against them, has ever been restrained, ever voted 139 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 51st amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 52nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted for 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 54th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 55th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Seselj, Nikola Savic and Verica Radet submitted together to the 55th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the same amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 57th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the same amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 59th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 60th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 61st amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 134 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic together submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two and two, there is no one who has been held back, who has not voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to the amendment's 63rd. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two and two, there is no one who has been held back, who has not voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to the 65th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to the 66th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic together submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav LJubenović and Milorad Mircic submitted together to the 67th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to the 68th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 135 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30519	On Article 69 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the Dveri Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Devere Parliamentary Group submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 70th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the Dveri Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the Dveri Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic jointly submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Parliament Group Dveri submitted to the amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Devere Parliamentary Group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and the Dveri Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm asking services to take this card out here to the left in the DS MP benches. There's one card, and the MP's not here. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and the Dveri Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Parliament Group Dveri submitted to the 77th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Sreto Peric, Ruzica Nikolic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted together to the 77th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 77th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Devere Parliamentary Group submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Devere Parliamentary Group submitted the same text to Article 79 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Parliament Group Dveri submitted to the 80th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marijanović and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri MP groups submitted. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Members of the 82nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party-The People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group submitted to the 83rd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Members of the 84th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted. On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri MP groups submitted. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. On Article 86 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri MP groups submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Members of the 87th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri MP groups submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party-The People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Members of the 90th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by a parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP group Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri submitted. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 92 of the amendment, the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri submitted to the 93th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Members of the 94th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 95 of the amendment, the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 96 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP group Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I realize it's not accepted. Members of the 97th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Members of the 98th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Members of the 99th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 100 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 101 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP group Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 103 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 103 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The 103rd amendment was jointly submitted by Petar Jojic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On Article 104 of the amendment, the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I realize it's not accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri group submitted to Amendment 105, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Members of the 106th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dvori parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Members of the 107th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the Dveri. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Members of the 108th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dvori parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 109 of the amendment, in the same text, the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and Dveri parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 110 of the amendment, the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 111 of the amendment, the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. On Article 112 of the amendment, the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. The 112th amendment was jointly submitted by Momcilo Mandic, Natasa Jovanovic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. On Article 113 of the amendment, the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 114. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: yes – no one voted, no one joined the vote. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted the same text to Article 115 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 116 of the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 117. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Article 118 of the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted the amendment to Article 119. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 119th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted to the 120th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted amendments to Article 122 of the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary group submitted the same text to Article 123 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 124. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 124th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted to the 125th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 126. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted the same text to Article 127 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NS and Dveri parliamentary groups submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 128th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Aleksandra Belačić and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote, and no amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a law on the whole. I ask you to establish the quorum before I put this law to the vote. A little service intervention, they're asking us to re-enter the cards. We have a quorum, 131. I'm putting the draft foreign law to the vote, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted three MPs for – 131. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on foreigners. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for AZIL AND PREPARED PROTECTION I am putting to the vote the proposal for an asylum and economic protection law, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 131 against – one abstention – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I'm handing my colleague Arsic over to read you these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30520	Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was filed by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 9th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was filed by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two against – one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 19th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, seven MPs of the Dveri group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was filed by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Bozidar Delic submitted together on Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Filip Stojanovic and Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 26, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 27, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -two, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 28 that have been tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -two, against - no one, with abstentions, there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 29, which have been tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dvora Group and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 30, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which have been tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32, which was submitted in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group, to the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which has been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 33, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 34, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 34, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: for -one, against -one, the abstentioned - there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 35, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 36, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 36, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 37, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -two, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 37, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 38, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 39, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -two, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 41, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 42, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 43, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 44, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same article in the same text as the seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 46, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 47, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 48 which, in the same text, have been tabled by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 49, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 50, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote by MP Marija Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 50, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote by MP Meho Omerovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against - no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 51, which was tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament group and the five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions - there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 52, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS Group I am concluding the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 52, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 53, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 54, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the same article in the same text as the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 56, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the same text as the 57 Members of Parliament and the five MPs of the SDS, the People's Party, to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 58, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the article 59 which, in the same text, have been tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 59, which was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 60 which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 61 which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 62, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 63, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 64, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 65, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 66, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 67, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 68 which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 69, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 70, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 71, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 71 tabled by MP Meho Omerovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Meho Omerovic, who is proposing to add title and article 71a. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 72, which have been tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 73, which have been tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 74, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 74, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 75, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 75, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Diana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 76, which have been tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 77, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 77th vote tabled jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 78, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 78, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 78, which was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. I conclude the vote: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 79, which have been tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 80th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 82nd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 83rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-sufficient, will ever be able to do so. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 84th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 85th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted the same text to the 86th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 87th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the "Creative Pero" High School, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 88th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 90th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 90th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 92th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 93rd Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 94 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 95th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta submitted together to the 95th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 96th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted the same text to the 97th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted the same text to the 98th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 99th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 100th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 101st amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 102 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 103 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 104 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Before we begin to plead on the bill, I ask the MPs to first determine the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic system, he is present in the room of 128 MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft asylum and temporary protection laws to the vote, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the proposal for a law on asylum and temporary protection. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on border control to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1, which were tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2, which were tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3, which were tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which were tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 5, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 6, which were tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 7, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Parliament Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8, which were tabled in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 10, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 11, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 15, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Parliament Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 17, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 18, which were tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 24 which, in the same text, have been tabled by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 25, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 26, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 27, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 30, which was submitted in the same text by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group and the five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 30, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 31, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 32, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 33, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 34, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 35, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which was added to Article 35a after Article 35a, which was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 36, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 36, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 37, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 38, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 39, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dvora Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 40, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 41, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 42, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 43, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 44, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dvora Group and five MPs from the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 45, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 46, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 46, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 47, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 48, which was submitted in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 49, which was tabled in the same text by seven MPs of the Dveri Group and five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 51st amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 52nd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 53rd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 54th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 55th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 56th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 57th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dvora group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 59th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 60th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 61st amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 62nd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 63rd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 64th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 65th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 67th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 68th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 69th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 70th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Members of the 70th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 71st amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 72th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Members of the 72nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic-Đuričić and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the amendment's 73rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 74th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 75th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendments have been accepted. Before we move on to a statement on the bill, I ask you to establish a quorum. Since we have established by applying the electronic system that 132 MPs are present in the hall right now and since we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft law on border control in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law on border control. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour and continue our work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30521	Before we continue voting to determine if we have a quorum. Put your cards in units. Thank you. I ask the MPs to put their cards back in the voting unit. I find that we have quorum, there are 127 MPs present at the session. We're going back to work. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON EVADENCES AND DESCRIPTION OF INSTITUTION I am putting the proposal for a law on the records and processing of data in the field of internal affairs, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – one, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one, of a total of 132 MPs I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 2. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, of a total of 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, of the 132 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, of the 132 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – none, of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, of a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, of a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Single Serbia group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - none, of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - none, of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - none, of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment to Article 12 of the amendment, which was submitted by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment to the title of Chapter III the amendment has submitted five Members of Parliament to the United Serbia Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 11, 124 MPs, of a total of 135, did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS group, the NS, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS group, the NS, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for none, against—one of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS Group, the NS, submitted to the amendment on 19th. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five members of the Parliament's group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Alexander Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS group, the NS, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS group, the NS, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS group, the NS, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS Group, the NS, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS Group, the NS, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS Group, the NS, submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav Ljubenovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS Group, the NS, submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS Group, the NS, submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted to the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 56th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 60th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, abstention – no one, 134 MPs voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30522	Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 66th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on records and data processing in the field of internal affairs, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on records and processing of data in the field of internal affairs. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a NATIONAL DNA LAW FOR THE REGIST I am putting to the vote the draft law on the national DNA register, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, and we move on to a decision on amendments. On the 1st amendment in the same text, Branka Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary groups submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the second amendment in the same text, Branka Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary groups submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—no one, with abstentions—there is none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jovan Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Milorad Mircic, Zoran Krasic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the Single Serbia parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-sufficient, will ever be able to do so. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted an amendment to Article 7. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jovan Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Nemanja Sarovic together submitted the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I ask the MPs to sit in their seats. I'm putting the draft law on the national DNA register in general. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 132, no one, three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the national DNA register. I put the draft law on the single number of citizens, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 131, no one, three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The Group of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted an amendment to Article 5. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by the Single Serbia parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, self-abstained, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Nemanja Sarovic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Marina Ristic and Nikola Savic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic together submitted the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the single number of citizens, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the single number of citizens. I put to the vote – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the State of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments submitted by MP Marija Obradovic to the article. 2nd and 4th. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Single Serbia Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Miodrag Lint. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Single Serbia Group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I put it to the vote – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security of Traffic on Roads, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 132, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30523	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messengers, 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messengers who are 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Bozidar Delic submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messengers who are 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Natasa Mihajlović Vacic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messengers who are 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messengers who are 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messengers who are 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Single Serbia group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstention of the Messengers who are 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 134 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has no one to vote. 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has no one to vote. 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted together by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group submitted to the 13th amendment, I am putting the People's Party to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has no one to vote. 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has no one to vote. 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group submitted to the 15th amendment, I am putting the People's Party to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the amendment to Article 16 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belacic submitted together to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 130 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 130 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS-NS group submitted to the amendment's 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 129 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS-NS group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 130 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS-NS parliamentary group submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 129 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 132 MPs in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic submitted together to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 71st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Jovanovic submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Single Serbia group submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare four against, none of the abstentioned have voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare for -- two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not been voted by 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 134 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 80th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 134 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 134 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to the 83rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to the 93rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment, in the same text, was filed by five MPs from the DS parliamentary group and MP Branimir Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 103. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 104. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five of the MPs of the JS Group submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branimir Jovanovic submitted to the 110th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 117. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the JS parliamentary group submitted to Article 118 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 119. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five of the MPs of the SDS, the NS, submitted the amendment to Article 129. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 129. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 141st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 145 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 147th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 148th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic to Article 149. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 150th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Natasa Mihailović Vacic and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 151. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 151 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Mihailović Vacic and five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—128 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 154 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Mihailović Vacic and the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—128 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic submitted the amendment to Article 157. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 130, against – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. We're moving to agenda nine. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – one, with abstention – no, not a single MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Petar Jojic and Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Momcilo Mandic and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Vjerica Radeta and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of Aleksandar Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 29th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 32 of the amendment in the same text, 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and together Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic, submitted an amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of 33rd. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, submitted to the 40th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 42nd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic, together Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bozidar Delic, Momcilo Mandic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not a single MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Changes to Public and Peace Laws. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 132, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Petar Jojic, Ruzica Nikolic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Predrag Jelenkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against them none, the abstentioned, did not vote 123 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Aleksandra Belačić and LJljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Sreto Peric, Tomislav Ljubenovic and Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that none of the MPs have joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 132, no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Public Order and Peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-22-0.u30524	As we now need to decide on the draft laws on the confirmation of international contracts, I remind you that we are deciding most of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on police co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation on co-operation and joint action, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on co-operation in the area of protection against natural and other disasters, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 133 against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on reciprocal recognition and replacement of national driving licences, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece, mutual recognition of driving licences, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 134, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on co-operation in the area of law enforcement, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by a single MP. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the validation of the Work Arrangement between the Ministry of Serbia and the European Union Agency for the Training of Law Implementation Authorities (CEPOL) in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 133. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We are now moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions and elections and resolutions. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to elect the Director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the function of a member of the Securities Commission, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – one with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court. A proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, as there has been a discussion on the contested candidates, is being decided individually by the National Assembly and by a proposal to elect candidates who have not been challenged, is being decided in general by a public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put to the vote the proposal to elect Jasminko Obačin, Judge of the Court of Appeal, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić, as president of the Chamber of Commerce. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has elected Jasmine Obačina, president of the Chamber of Appeal. I am voting on the proposal to elect Jovan Jovanovic, judge of the Court of Appeal, as president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, and whose proposal has been challenged by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: for – 131 v - one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly chose Jovanovic as president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Tatjana Jeremic, Judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Vjerica Radet, as president of the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Tatjana Jeremic as president of the Second Basic Court in Belgrade by majority of the votes of all MPs. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-3180/17 of 30 October 2017, without disputed candidates, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision in general by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to the public prosecutor's election. In a proposal for the selection of each of the main candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and a proposal to elect non-contested candidates is decided in general by public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put on the vote a proposal to elect Mikica Karic, prosecutor's assistant prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, whose proposal was challenged by the MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 134 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly did not select Mikica Karic as the deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. I would like to put the motion to elect Milica Šormaz, prosecutor's assistant in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, whose proposal has been challenged by the MP, Dr Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: no one, against one, abstention—anyone. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Milic Shormaz as deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. I am voting on the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, under the number 119-4126/17 of 14 December 2017, without disputed candidates, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision in general by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote Proposal for a decision on the election of Deputy Prosecutor No 119-2371/17 as of 4 September 2017, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court of Appeal, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the General Court in Novi Sad, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Leskovac, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue: 119-4191/17 since 21 December 2017, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted three MPs for – 131. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members, number: 02-3452/17 of 10 November 2017, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members, number: 02-2901/17 of 12 October 2017, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my personal behalf the elected bearers of office in the selection and wish them many successes in the work together. I'm asking for a little patience, so I can conclude the session, so we can quickly move past the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 7 March 2018, pointed to the violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Neđo Jovanovic, at a session on 9 March 2018, pointed to a 27-member injury at 1220 hours. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. Finalising vote: for - three. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 9 March 2018, pointed to the violation of members 104 and 107 at 12:30. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether the said members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 9 March 2018, at 12 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Muamer Zukorlic, at a session on 9 March 2018, at 14 hours and 08 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Dr Jahja Fehratović, at a session on 9 March 2018, at 14 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 10 hours and 26 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 32, 2nd and 3. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 10 o'clock and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said member is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 11 o'clock and 14 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 11 o'clock and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 11 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, for - one, against - the abstentioned. There's no sustained injury. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 12 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 15 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Marijan Rističevic, at a session on 12 March 2018, at 17 hours and six minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No injured Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 March 2018, at 13 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 158. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Miljan Damjanovic, at a session on 13 March 2018, at 13 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 March 2018, at 13 hours and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 112. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Miljan Damjanovic, at a session on 14 March 2018, at 10 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 14 March 2018, at 10 o'clock and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 14 March 2018, at 10 o'clock and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 14 March 2018, at 10 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 105(4). Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 14 March 2018, at 11 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 158(3). Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 14 March 2018, at 13 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 14 March 2018, at 13 hours and 14 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 103, 104, 107 and 32. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and find that the Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Thanks and I'll see you Monday.
