ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40664	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask fellow Members not to play with cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zarko Obradović, Aleksandra Tomić, Dubravka Filipovski, Elvira Kovac, Aleksandar Stevanović, Aleksandar Seselj, Marija Obradović, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Vladimir Marinković and Olena Papuga. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the context of the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - the draft Law on War Memorials, are invited to attend sessions: Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs with Associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to this bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the Legislatives and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40665	Thank you, Chairman. This bill simply has an incomplete name. I suggested that the bill, or future law, which I have no doubt will be adopted, be named – the Law on War Memorials of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see why this very important part is kept out – the Republic of Serbia in our laws, and I think it is important that this amendment be accepted, that the name of the law be imbued. It would be no precedent, but we had a case at the previous session that the interior minister accepted my amendment and when it can't write already -- Serbian memorials, let it say -- the memories of the Republic of Serbia. We must not allow anything to be understood in this high House and in our legislation. So, the law itself also applies to the memories of the Republic of Serbia and so we will avoid future any dilemma that in our territory or anywhere, where Serbian memorials in the world can exist and be subject to protection to memorialize some other countries like Turkey, Germany, the United States that have been committing aggression in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that the minister will understand that, like his colleague, the interior minister, he will allow the law to be completed with an important sentence -- the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40666	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40667	We have suggested that the title of this law be - the Law of Order and the Protection of War Memorials. This would be more complete, especially given the content of this bill. So this is the whole point, this amendment should have been accepted. We believe that the alliance of a state is made up of ancestors, present generations and descendants, and whoever forgets his ancestors will surely lose his descendants. This law will leave much unsaid and will not resolve whether there is a need to memorialize offices in a comprehensive and complete manner. Of course there is. If we had had more respect for our ancestors, or for the people who have paid our freedom with their blood, we would not have allowed the Vid island, not after almost 100 years, of the memorial complex not to be done as the Russian architect designed it, Nikolai Krasnov, but would have been done in its entirety. Now some associations, even some sheets, have launched an initiative to raise funds and do so on a voluntary basis. This is the essence that should have been paid more attention. Mr. Minister, we have a lot of memorials that aren't right or maintained so far. It may be good to know some competences between local self-government and the state of Serbia. A greater relationship is there and the moral question of what we will have toward our ancestors, toward the dead, than who, in the end, will maintain the rest. If we were moral people, if we had appreciated our ancestors, we would have worked without that regulation or regulation. It's an honor and a pride to show such a relationship, that such piety towards our ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40668	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ristic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40669	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have waited too long for the War Memorial law and it will be a great shame if it remains a dead letter on paper, and there are great chances for that and in my subsequent presentations I will explain why it is very certain. It is widely known that the deaths of the Serb people in the wars are enormous and that the situation of crimes committed against Serbs has never been investigated until the end, because Yugoslav and later Serbian authorities have reduced, covered up, covered up these massacres. It was necessary for Croatia and BiH to press charges for genocide in order for our government to tear itself apart and start talking more openly about this topic. The only ones who have had the courage to talk about this publicly in the past 20 years are Serbian radicals. We wanted to keep from forgetting all the crimes committed against the Serbian people until one day we awakened consciousness and conscience and this topic was no longer taboo for our rule. That our words do not go into the wind, that they do not forget, that we leave some things for future generations, we have published numerous scientific papers in the scientific journal "Serbian Freedom Thought", as well as books of prominent figures such as Nikola Žutić, Veselin Đuretic, Momir Krsmanović, Milisav Sekulić and many others who have dealt with this topic. That's why the SRS is very important, but since we have a number of objections to point 4 of the law that is crucial, we will not vote unless our amendments are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40670	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40671	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they've memorized places of instruction and messages. They've memorized memories, places of gathering and new visions. The memorials came yesterday, but ours today and tomorrow. The relationship to the memorials is more convincing than much else, it speaks of one people, our relationship to the ancestors, to history and tradition. Carefully maintained and nurtured memorial sites speak of the vitality and strength of a nation, as abandoned memorials speak of the abandoned mental hygiene of a nation. Over many centuries and millenniums, Serbia has been the habitat of human communities, numerous archaeological sites with material remains are confirmations of natives' residence and lives, various nomadic and war tribes, such as Ilir, Kelt, Romans, Slovenians and Turks. At this millennium's crossroads of roads and civilizations, the intertwination of the Oriental and European spirit, we saw different cultures, fought wars and raised rebellions. The most convincing testimony is the numerous war memorials. Ours is to leave them as an epic story from their knees to their knees for generations to come. The memorials will tell these future generations not only about what they came up with in glory and gratitude, but also about us, and what this story will be about depends on our relationship with war memorials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40672	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savik, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title of the War Memorial Bill. I have to say, there's nothing wrong with the law being passed, on the contrary, it's good that this matter is seen in one way, at least one legal way, because we know that in the meantime, we've changed the names of the larger number of countries we've lived in. But what the Government, or the Assembly, is passing this law, does not yet mean that the state of Serbia has a proper relationship with this matter. On the contrary, the state of Serbia remains absolutely inadequate towards its history, to its heroes, to sites which unfortunately were many, on all sides and our ropes and our wider homelands. I'm going to illustrate that with one example. The recent NATO aggression, NATO enemies who bombed the Serbian state, caused a number of victims and major material damage. So that was literally, all of us sitting here in this room remember that and we're contemporaries of these events, but the state of Serbia has not yet determined the exact number of victims and has not determined the exact material damage. So, no matter how much we pass one law like this, it's not enough because we have to take care of all the details. You know that our enemies, or some other countries, even invent some details to add to their history, so to speak, to their heroic epics, and we have a lot of things, and we can't even count it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40674	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Ljubenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40675	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on war memorials, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment and we proposed that the title be changed in such a way as to read - the Law on the Planning and Protection of War Memorials in the Republic of Serbia. We have submitted this amendment because we believe that the name of the law we propose will be more comprehensive, given that the adoption of this law will cease to be in force long ago, the Law on the Editing and Maintaining of Cemeteries, Fighters from 1986, the Law on the Marking of Cemeteries and Graves of Allied armies and other foreign armies on the territory of Yugoslavia from 1975, the Law on Cemeteries and Graves of Fighters abroad from 1976. The text of the bill defines both the editing and the protection of war memorials, by which the term "edit" should be much broader than how the proposaler explained the meaning of this concept. As regards the protection of war memorials, it is written that, within the meaning of this law, it is meant to prevent belongings and damages and maintenance in a dignified and recognizable state, as well as to prevent unauthorised alteration, processing, transfer, replacement or removal of the early memory or its work. When it's written like this, we in the SRS really don't see what the problem is to accept this amendment and make the title of the law clearer and more comprehensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40676	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40677	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this bill should settle the issue of war memorial protection, as well as all other issues of importance for war memorials in the Republic of Serbia and Serbian memorials abroad. In the last century, the Serbian people had several very difficult Liberation and Defence wars in which they suffered huge losses. We Serbian radicals believe it is our national and moral duty to repay all Serbian victims and protect Serbian victims from oblivion. We visit every year the mention of the markings in Kravica, Bratunc, Skeleni and in all Serbian countries where major crimes took place against the Serb population. The Serbian Radicals delegation led by Zoran Krasic, who dedicated his life to fighting for the freedom of the Serbian people and thus earned a place next to all the Serbian heroes he protected from oblivion, each year honoring the memory of the Zalazi skeleton, the innocent Serbs who were killed by Muslim forces on Petrov day 1992 under the command of war criminal Naser Oric, whose only sin was that of Serbia. I would point out that none other than us Serbian radicals, no Serbian politician, no representative of the opposition, no representative of the government has ever honored these innocent Serbian victims. The Serbian Radical Party believes that no Serbian victim should be forgotten and we will regularly come and pass on to generations that are all Serbian victims of freedom...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40678	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40679	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on war memorials is probably the oldest legislative proposal that has come into this House and we have discussed, if we know that it has been in force for nearly half a century and that it has outlived three states. Unlike other laws, which we have voted here, in addition to the reasons for their adoption based on state interests, on the needs of citizens, on arguments, this law carries a slightly greater emotional charge, which is human and understandable, when we know that it touches our feelings. We're very injured people, the most we've ever suffered in the last 20th century. I will mention the first and second Serbian uprisings, the Balkan wars, the First and Second World War until our country's bombing by the criminal NATO alliance at the end of the millennium. The Serbian Radical Party supports an initiative to pass one of these laws, where this highly sensitive area would be regulated in a comprehensive way, but through amendments to this bill, we will point to our objections and his shortcomings. As a reason for the urgent procedure and the need to settle the issues that are regulated by this law as soon as possible, loses importance in light of the fact that the law was passed 47 years ago, and when something is passed by emergency procedure, that means fast. In the minds of people, there's always a suspicion and a suspicion that there's something he wants to hide, that he's not coming out in public, that he's hiding from the public. I will continue through the next amendments
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40680	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Natasa Jovanovic was submitted to the amendment bill. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40681	This law, Mr. Minister, has too much, in general, and can be found in a congregation procedure in any country in the world, but we, in order to preserve the meaning of Serbian victims, because we are the most perilous people in the 20th century, should have called this law - a law on war memorials and the deaths of Serbian heroes. Because it's been so long, here's 70 years since the end of World War II, we've also marked a centenary since the end of World War I, and not all Serbian victims in the former Yugoslavia are listed. If you now have the opportunity to pass a law like this and if you already wanted to keep the mention of Serbian victims, and we will talk a lot about how much things are here that are not fully defined, why haven't you formed a commission that will work, that once and for all the souls of Serbian heroes who have given their lives for the country of Serbia and for what, and that is what they need to pursue for future generations, that their heroism of Serbian heroes and they are standing up and so teaching them in the family – why didn't you go out to meet those who have been driving this initiative for years to know? Because how will the graves of those who have gone through Albania be known, and they are 150,000, on the island of Corfu, and many of them have not reached there, but from Drinska, from another division, ended up in some other places, when the mention of the markings or so small or not at all? Here, in just one place, the less famous place Agios Mateos on Krfu is one mark where Colonel Vladimir Stanisavljević wrote the words – on Serbian humvees Serbian flowers will not go down. There are no Serbian flowers, but there are places where the bones of Serbian heroes have left behind, which you have not marked, and no government has done so far, and that is what the SRS has insisted on for more than 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40682	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40683	The War Memorial Act should certainly exist, it should have been long ago. The idea is good, but this bill is not good. It's kind of not enough, as I would say, not enough concrete, or it's not concrete, and it's kind of as if it's just a matter of working order, so that the law is passed, without essentially doing what's supposed to be the intensity of this law, I hope both the government and the congregation majority, and ultimately all of Serbia's citizens. Somehow, it's been a constant impression for decades, especially since 2000, that we should be ashamed of everything that's Serbian, which is Serbian heroism, which is Serbian heroism, what all other countries are getting up to, we're kind of trying to represent in public as something retrograde, something we shouldn't be proud of, etc. The fact that the president, former president of the state of Slobodan Milosevic, has no mark in Belgrade, is more than enough evidence that this law will not change such a thing either, and that this law is not good either. We're afraid of something else. We're afraid that this law may be just a smoke screen, let's say -- here, we passed a law on war memorials, and then using this law, and that's why it's not good, we confirm that story that's increasingly public, that we need to break up with our myths, with legends, etc. That certainly shouldn't happen. It's part of those requirements that we get from the EU, and it's about that binding KIM agreement. There should never be something like this done under the form of this law, because we and KIM have, except for our big myths, other than the Kosovo myth that no one must ever give up and at any cost, in any negotiations and talks, we have many new places that deserve memorials and Gorazdevac and Staro Grad and each individual kills every Serb at KIM, and all died in the days of pogrom and all those killed by NATO aggression, not just at KIM. Of course, through the amendments we will go further through history, but what we particularly want to point out now is, Ministers and gentlemen of the government and the ruling majority, don't say because of this law - here's all we have to keep contained in this law, and the rest we will give up for the journey to the EU. There is no path for which anyone has the right to give up one piece of our glorious Serbian history.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40684	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Delich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40685	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law was necessary in any case. When you read reports on the state of our war memorials from the Balkan wars and the First World War on Macedonia's territory and on the territory of Greece and when you see the state of hundreds or thousands of these memorials, then you think about how much it takes for the state to start dealing with this problem seriously. Why did we put in Article 4, in our proposal for an amendment, that it must be a member of the Serbian Orthodox Church? You know that one huge number of war memorials are the mention of the church's skeleton, and also that the church archives contain data on a large number of memorials or sites. When we suggested it, we were thinking maybe just that you didn't do it on purpose and that you didn't deliberately forget the SPC. For us from the SRS, if you do not accept our amendment, everything regarding this law and your efforts and your desire to take care of war memorials will be absolutely clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40686	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40687	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with associates, the matter of the war memorials for the SRS is of great importance. Therefore, we have amendedly intervened on all members of the law, as well as on the title of the law. So we propose that instead of the current title of the law, it stands – the War Memorial Act and the way in which all Serbian memories are protected. Why do we propose to change the title of the law? The reason is simple – the text of the law states that our state will take care of the protection of all Serbian memorials and that both in the state of Serbia and abroad. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the heroic Serb people have so far participated in seven to nine country wars. The Serbian people have never had a claim to conquer other people's territories, always defended their country, their hearths and their freedom. They were just defensive and never conquering wars, which deserves the attention of all Serbs who are descendants of famous warriors. So I suggest you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40688	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Đuric, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Garica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Schulkic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40689	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, we generally feel it is necessary to pass this law, and you have explained a lot of reasons why it should be done. One of the reasons is so-called. codification, unification in general of this legislative regulation, and there are several laws that have regulated this area. At this point, we have neither the possibility to discuss it, nor the need, but that does not necessarily mean that the laws were not good. The question arises as to what was the application and in this sense the practice will show how much this law actually builds mechanisms that what is declared by law and what is given in the jurisdiction of the state and local self-government, will be respected. Basically, this law applies to the so-called so-called law. The war memorials also highlight and value the spirit of free efforts and the freedom traditions of Serbia, its armies and all those who fought under its symbols, under its flag, with no distinction whether it was Serbs or members of other ethnic communities in Serbia as a sovereign state or Serbia who, through the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, or the postwar Republic of Yugoslavia, had these efforts. Furthermore, it also deals with the demarcation of jurisdiction and the recording of existing war memorials and monuments, everything he implies. When it comes to the demarcation of jurisdiction, it is assumed by this law that local self-government will have quite a burden. At this point, we don't really have an estimate of how much the local self-government will be, so local self-government can't meet this obligation, and I hope local self-government will be taken care of when it comes to adopting the republican budget and later local budgets. We have come from the fact that victims, before submitting this amendment, should not be doubled. So, we don't need this law, according to us, not to suggest support or launch, if I may say so, research ventures, nor the recording of unidentified and unmarked crash sites. However, this law does not prohibit it, but in no way does not extend it or support it. So, it's common, and in this law, the discretionary sphere of the executive minister is great, so I hope that in the adoption of sublegal acts, all issues that are not fully regulated by this law will be regulated. The fact is that there have been casualties and casualties in the war, but there have been postwar periods, and that is why we think this law should be, we have suggested in what way it should be, but there may be some better way, but we certainly wanted to challenge or provoke one controversy about this subject and that perhaps we hear from the minister, Mr. Minister, in which way they will refer to those places of suffering that are not recorded, and the fact is that they exist, or that they have been recorded without being marked. I'd like to say something here that might come into question. These are pre-war monuments, or whatever they were categorized between the two world wars, without a large number of them waiting for liberation, whether during the war the occupier or perhaps some domestic structures that worked during World War II in these areas, and certainly there are a number of these monuments that were erected before World War II, which the post-war government, so after World War II, removed. It is interesting to carry out a list, not to prove who was a bigger soul during the pre-war period and all that marks the efforts from Serbia, the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, whether it was during the war or after the war. Then, these represent the death sites during the war and after the war, therefore, which are not marked and they are known to exist and, of course, there are those that are not recorded, and they are not even marked, and in any case, they are known to exist. I'm just going to name some of these examples for all of these structures. When it comes to pre-war monuments, there are examples of good practice, such as the monument to King Peter and the liberator in Zrenjanin, former Petrograd or Vienna, which has been restored in the meantime, which was destroyed during World War II. And then there's the place of death, and I'm going to set an example in the Great Plan, in the yard of high school, that when some works were done, it was discovered mass, so to speak, the place of destruction and that nothing was done to this day. So there should be no difference between the victims, whether it was during the war effort of Serbia or the states in which Serbia participated, to which it belonged or was otherwise carried out. From this time distance, so, after 70 years, when there is no executioner, I think especially of these post-war liquidations and the crash site, I believe that from this time distance of passing this law, this is actually one chance that in some way this law applies and concerns, or at least one of you would comment on it, if you already have that in mind, that in that sense this law gives some hope and some chance that both those victims and those victims will be marked in a decent manner and that they will be honored. When it comes to equating, we can now say that it is assumed, but it would also not be bad to hear, if there are a large number of victims or places where fights are fought, and therefore the deaths of a large number of people, civilians, soldiers during World War II, then I should also assume, since they are even about fighting Fascism and Equality that Ravna Gora will also be a war memorial. Then, if the House of Flowers is a memorial, in some ways we assume that Oplenac is also a memorial. So I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that you may answer some of these questions, and some of these questions I think there are a large number of citizens who are interested – will they ever explore and find out what happened to the victims after the war in particular? So there are mass casualties, so please give some answers in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40690	Thank you. At the title of the Head and Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40691	We continue only what we have already spoken and what we will say all day, that is, as long as these amendments last, about how much this law is actually needed and how much they have somehow been neglected in our people, perhaps not in the people, but more among the officials, and the facts of the victims, so much so that, say, a few months ago, at the Old Fair, where there was once a camp, there was a transparency of SNS. Of course, he's fast-tracked, but that says how much he doesn't care and how much he wasn't at all, there's not even a list of some of the most important places where innocent people died. In 2017, I think that in March, we were at a funeral in Merdar, Zarko Milačić, a volunteer of the SRS, died in Mašićko Sagovina, where more volunteers died, then of course, all under the command of the then JNA. He was buried after 26 years, true, with military honors, but without any official who on behalf of the state should have appeared there, to draw attention to how Croats would not be responsible for mass murder, that they would not open mass graves, but one by one Serb, buried in these mass graves, thus delivering to the family. Not all of Mašićka Shagovina's corpses have been brought to Serbia, that is, where the families didn't bury, because no one from the country wants to get involved in solving this problem, and the late Zarko Milačić was found by one family, in this Mašićko Sagovina two sons were killed, the third son being forced to bury bodies, including his two brothers, and then they moved away, no longer living in Serbia, and they gave data to Brother Žarko Milačić, who personally became very interested in finding his brother's remains. So we have to do a lot more as a state, and regardless of this law, we have to take much more care of the injured Serbs, and I repeat, we must not be ashamed of that. We need to make it clear and loud to everyone what his merits are in history. I'm a descendant of a Thessaloniki fighter. My late grandfather, Steve Radeta, was a Thessaloniki fighter, was in the Cayman. He was lucky to have come from there alive, but in 1941 he was met by the Lebanonn Ustashas. He was slaughtered along with all the Serbs from Livn, all the grown men from Livn who were slaughtered at Fired Mary in 1941, and those victims and those places deserve to be memorialized and that site of Prolog, where my late grandfather and all the karst pits in Livn, deserve to be memorialized and visited by the state of Serbia and to be indicated to them. You know, we bones of our ancestors, we Lithuanian Serbs buried, we removed from the karst pits, we buried on St. Elijah in 1991. A few months later, the same skeleton bones that were made in the Ports of the Orthodox Church in Livn, were kicked in the streets of Lebanon, kicked by neighbours Muslims and Croats. Once again, what has been done has been collected and again there is this skeleton, but it cannot survive in one Livna, where the Serbs no longer have the interest of the Serbian state to show some respect to those Serbs, because it wasn't just my grandfather who was a Thessaloniki fighter, many of them fought, but unfortunately ended up tied to a barbed wire, slaughtered and covered with living paint in those karst pits. Unfortunately, we could talk about this subject and these topics for days and repeat it well that this law has been passed, but if you are not prepared to accept certain amendments, we will not blame you, prepare a comprehensive text, so let us discuss it one more time and pass the law for which we will be. We are basically for this law, but not for this law, and that's why we can't vote for it because this law is just a farce, which doesn't solve the fundamental need to preserve the memory of all our fallen heroes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40692	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40693	Without the active role of the state in the people's period, and above all to be in one of the most important places in Belgrade, and you should see it with the new mayor, since everyone from the SNS boasts that you want Belgrade to be a modern city, let's do something to make up for our ancestors, to create a memorial centre, Mr. Minister and you personally must insist on, where it will be, in fact, the centre of the victims of Serbs who have suffered genocide in the 20th century. If we don't leave this to future generations in inheritance, then the situation will be much worse than two years ago when a poll was made on the streets of Belgrade and when 90% of the nearly respondents didn't know who Milunka Savic was. The Serbian heroin faced by French, Russian generals, who received the Order of the French Legion of Honor personally from the hands of General D'epare, and that the Belgraders, your fellow citizens, and I don't believe that something better is the situation in Kragujevac, do not know which woman it is. If there's no such, conditionally speaking propaganda, if you don't make all state resources go that way, then this law is groundless and there's only one letter left on paper. Something the commission will do, something they won't do, and here we've been insisting on since this debate started, now you've had a really shaken, family story, told and co-worker of Radeta, and we all have such a story within our family that one of our victims, that his trail is unknown. Do so, Mr. Minister, that once and for all, it is known and marked where the victims and the Balkan wars, by name and last name, and World War I and World War II and above all the last country wars. The data is being manipulated so much, and there has been so much propaganda of Serbian enemies and Muslim hordes of evil in Ustasha villains, that there is a minimalization of the loss of Serbian victims, and this loss is enormous and we must not leave it to anyone who will do it or not in the future, and that the day today when there is a possibility of doing it, it is not organised by the Serbian Government. At the end of this further presentation, at night after this amendment, I will remind you, and perhaps some MPs know it, I believe they know that in 1916 in London, Vladika Nikolaj Velimirovic asked how many Serbs died in 1916? You fellow Members of Parliament know the exact number? No one to this day in the great war and in the great suffering of the Serbian people knows what the exact number is, and there were ten times more of us than those English idiots. How many of us are there today? And why isn't the Serbs here? Because they have defended Europe from all evils and from all the monsters of the 20th century. And today you are flocking to those who minimize the role and Serbian heroism, laughing at all of it and wanting to take away the cradle of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40694	Thank you. To the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic: Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40695	Thank you. Although, after my first address, where the minister is not acceptable to call the law on the memorials of the Republic of Serbia, I am discouraged and for anything else relating to the improvement of the law in the Republic of Serbia. I suggested that Article 1, where you said it was war memorials in the Republic of Serbia, but it is probably unacceptable to celebrate and mention the Republic of Serbia in the title. So in article 1, you stated that they were memorials in the Republic of Serbia, and I added "in the region and in the distance". Why the detour? Because dispersion means -- all Serbs around the world, wherever they are, because we have to think about our citizens in the Republic of Serbia and Serbs wherever we are. We heard from previous speakers how much suffering and how many Serbs died in the 20th century, and now, at the beginning of the 21st century, in peacetime, we were down 400,000 in 10 years. In peacetime, without wars, killing, we also disappear. Why? Because, for example, among other things, we are ashamed that the title of the law includes the Republic of Serbia, because the self-refoulement of Serbs in the Republic of Serbia has not stopped. Because I'm denied that my passport says that my citizenship is Serbian. What I don't impose on others, which I want for myself, is denied to me in this country. That's why I'm questioning this law myself whether it will be implemented properly. You've led here to remove the unsuitable memorials. I suggest that when this law is passed, the first memorial to be removed will be a memorial that was set up recently in Kanjiza on 9 June, when a monument was erected to Austrian soldiers killed in fighting Serb soldiers, whose awareness and solemn appointment were attended by SNS leaders, including Milos Kravic, Djola and Karolina, director of DZ in Kanjiza. I call for an apology, for the SNS to officially give Serbian citizens an apology and first remove this memorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40696	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miladin Ševarlic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40697	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to ask the Proposer, first of all the present minister, the resolutely competent to include two more words in the Bill on War Memorial, with all due respect to each victim on either side and respecting each individual grave site, yet in this law we are inescapably involved in two more words – camps and genocide, given that millions of people, including Serbs, from Stari Simište, via Jasenovac, Ošvenci, to camps in Norway, have been killed in camps, and these are the consequences of genocide. I think it would be irresponsible to pass a law that doesn't contain those two concepts. That's the first one. Secondly, since I still have time, let me say a few words about the draft law on the simplified engagement of seasonal workers in a particular activity. First, I think the name is inappropriate. There's talk of a simplified, and that's over 80% of farmers...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40698	Comrade Chevarlich, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40699	I'll keep going, I'll use group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40700	Anyway, you have to talk about the agenda point, so the amendment you've submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40701	I don't see why you don't tolerate...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40702	This is not a principle debate that is also united.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40703	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40704	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40705	Dear fellow Members of the people, the history of the Serbs is no doubt an example of the free spirit of our people and a constant desire for greater freedom, and freedom for Serbs has never been given as with some other peoples in the environment, but has always been won and deserved. She wasn't won from the outside or from above. It's always made by struggle and great sacrifices. Freedom in Serbs is the temptation of entire generations. Today, on a ruthless blow, Serbia's free-lover verticals. How did we treat our war victims in the past? I'd say better with more respect. After World War I, the state formed a cult of the Unknown Hero, took care of the families of the dead soldiers, preserved the names of the dead in the war and built a mass military cemetery. Monuments were built in almost all villages and towns of Serbia. They contained lists of the dead in the form of a memorial board, a memorial-chases and a memorial-bone. The stone and monuments in the form of obelisks or crosses kept a picture of soldiers and his name, the exact date, and sometimes the circumstances under which he died. The Serbian Radical Party believes inadmissible bids with a large range on the number of war memorials. As you say, in 2003 they were registered in Serbia between four and six thousand and 1550 abroad. I think this inaccessible record is inadmissible. Well, five people to hire in Serbia to go to town halls, from village to village and sign the exact number of these memorials. It takes precise records of every dead warrior, every war memorial. It is not only the obligation of all of us, but also the great spirit and gratitude to all those who gave their lives for our freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40706	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40707	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1. The bill regulates the subject matter of the law and includes maintenance, editing and, among other things, the recording of war memorials. Since 2003, 550 Serbian memorials have been recorded outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. For them, the DKP of Serbia is in charge of the countries where these memorials are located. You stated that co-operation with these representations, which was established, is at an envious level, so I would like to say a few words about Macedonia's memorials. Some 40 memorials have been recorded, which are in very poor condition. Here's a monumental oatmeal in Krivojo Palanca, where the earthly remains of Serb soldiers killed in the First Balkan War, where it is problematic to maintain objects permanently, care for the preservation and protection of chapels. Then, a memorial chapel with a skeleton on the Bregalica, which was built on the rise near the train station in Stip, during World War II was torn down. There was later built a meteorological cell, which still exists, and the skeleton site can only be discovered by the referenced ones, since there is no mark of the former complex. Then, the Serbian military cemetery in the village of Živojno, which is said to be the most derelict, was rested in the cemetery by the 1916 dead warriors. Then we have a Serbian military cemetery in the village of Bac, where the dead soldiers were buried in World War I, which is completely abandoned. I would ask you, is there any sorting and maintenance of these memorials in Macedonia planned, because the state of Serbian memorials shows the state's attitude towards Serbian victims and the history of the Serbian people? Do not let memory of the way it is in Macedonia be a picture of your relationship with Serbian victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40708	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Dragash, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40709	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law, believing that, in Article 1 itself, it is necessary to point out exactly what many MPs have been talking about, which is the free tradition of Serbia and the Serbian people. The War Memorial Act is one of the most important, historically significant issues, but a very emotional question, which is why our relationship with this law is very responsible, we support it, but we simply believe that as much as possible at this point, a more precise definition can contain it. It is important to point out when we talk about this law one important thing, that it is the first such a comprehensive law, which, unfortunately, Serbia has not had until now and the success of the ministry itself and the government is precisely in the proposal of a law like this and the movement to make something like this. Most MPs, when speaking about this law, pointed out exactly the importance of a single list of all the memories that exist both abroad and in the country, but also at the same time as one comprehensive record, as well as a large number of MPs, as well as our own MPs, believe that it is of great importance that if this is possible and to the greatest extent possible to which it is possible to make lists of the victims and the dead. Unfortunately, the history of the Serbian people in the 20th century has been marked by many wars, many deaths, and we throughout this historic period and during that period, we have always had a sufficiently responsible and comprehensive relationship that we have treated with the piety of victims and that we have not always been true to the wartime people who have come out of these wars and who have made a great contribution to the freedom of the Serbian state. So this is an opportunity to do as much as possible at this point, the greatest possible effort to do so and a concrete proposal is that this comprehensive single free fight would be highlighted, once again undermining that a large memorial centre should include precisely and sum up this unique free fight and that there is a complete list of how many victims and fighters, civilians in this period of destruction. We think that such a single memorial center and the preservation of such a memory would actually be supported by everyone. In that sense, I believe that this law in the coming period and our overall activities should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40710	Thank you. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Snezana Paunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40711	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the proposal of this law, but before I say what the essence of the amendment is, I would like to commend the work of the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs precisely for the simple reason that this law, as far as I have knowledge, changes two laws, i.e. out of force, puts two laws that have not been amended for 40 years. It really was time to look back on this problem as a state. What's the point of the amendment I filed? First of all, I wanted, in fact, to make an amendment to the cross-preposition and supplement the provisions of Article 1 of this Law and should contribute to the greater accuracy of the legal provision. The additions relate primarily to diaspora memorials, as well as to the formulation that this law regulates the status of war memorials. It is also proposed that this attitude should cover the removal of the memory in legitimate cases. In fact, we owe our children, and this is what my colleague Mirjana Dragas told her, how accurate data about all the deaths in the wars that are behind us in some distant past, but also in this immediate one, and we know that relations are not so great everywhere now, that Serbia has the opportunity to mark all its casualties both in the country and beyond, under the circumstances, that the brave Serb people of wars are infrequently out of their territory defending Europe as a whole. In that sense, the amendment has been submitted cleanly in order to perhaps specify this provision, although I don't think it is necessary, but the SPS, or MP group, will gladly support this law in the hope that any next solution will be more quality than this and that we simply have the right and that it is not perfect if we consider the fact that we are really dealing with this for the first time in 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40712	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is a colleague of Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40713	I thank the chairman. The proposed amendment tries to introduce a qualitative shift in the text of the law when it comes to editing the records of the memorials, especially war memorials, as well as the way in which we finance everything that follows after the adoption of this law, which is once again a commitment and a duty of attention that we were obliged to give to all those who deserve it. The Serbian people are known in history and recognized as the free people. In his history, the Serbian people waged exclusively liberating wars, never being an aggressor. In historical stages, the freedom wars were generally recognized by the victims the Serbian people had in all historical stages, victims who were not small, especially during the period of the First and Second World War in wars when the so-called reproductive population literally disappeared from the territory that was now covered by the Serbian state. That is why we are obliged, with special respect and respect, to treat the victims, to the liberators, to all those regardless of ideology, regardless of political commitment, regardless of the differences, to repay ourselves in this way, I will repeat, we could have done this before, but this is something that is in all respects for those who deserve this respect. Therefore, all monuments, no matter who they are raised to, no matter what ideological definition they symbolize, must be placed on the light of day. They must symbolize certain historical stages, certain historical facts and events because without history, without going back to look at all that the Serbian people have been through and gone through, there is no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40714	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic, Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Col. Pavlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40715	Thank you. The organized war memorials, as an important part of cultural heritage, often also represent significant objects of construction heritage. We therefore considered it necessary to introduce the term “revitalisation” in this Article 1. They are often objects that have great artistic value and need to be revitalised. It actually put doubt on me in this law that I think you should, which you need. In fact, I don't believe in the justice and honesty of this law. First, because we forget quickly, and secondly, because I believe the law was passed to remove as many war memorials as possible than to set up war memorials. Let's just say, how quickly we forget, here, let's say, that Žarko Zrenjanin's study is no longer good enough for the school to bear his name, the elementary school. He's no longer good enough for the city of Zrenjanin to bear his name. The seven SCOJ secretaries are not good enough for the school in New Belgrade to bear their name, and the monument remains. What does the Seven Secretaries' Monument now have to do with Laza Kostic's school? Neither did they die in New Belgrade, nor did that mean a stake in some of their history. Why do I think there will be abuse? First, I think the local authorities will be given hot potatoes to take care of these war memorials. They are funded by budget funds, but I'm interested in whether they will have to, once they have fulfilled all the formalities set out in this law to remove or raise a war memorial, compete with the relevant Ministry of Finance, or will they be given just by fulfilling these conditions for removing or installing these war memorials? So these are some things that should be very clearly defined. Then it's not clear what this means to a wider space continent around where an event occurred? These are spatially undefined continents of this law, and we need to know whether through this expansion of the environment around the war memorial, it means whether this site of destruction will be defined in such a way as to solve other problems, along the way, to take care of some of the cottages in national parks, protected areas. So these are things we really need to know everything about and be defined by this law. Unless it's defined by this law, I can only question honesty, as I said, of this law, and then I would have to sublaw it very clearly to define it, but right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40716	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40717	Thank you. Article 1 The draft law on war memorials has been defined as the content of this law. In that sense, we of the SRS parliamentary group have submitted an amendment to the position of the 2nd member, which we have proposed to amend part of the text, because we believe that certain words are unnecessary and burdensome to the text of the law. It states in Article 1 that this law regulates issues of importance for protection, regular maintenance, investment maintenance, editing and removal and financing of war memorials, establishing and keeping prescribed records, as well as other issues of importance for war memorials in the Republic of Serbia and abroad. We have proposed, by amendment, that the text of the law, which will be adopted, instead of: “keeping the prescribed records” says: “keeping records” and that text would not be unnecessaryly burdened. Speaking of records, I will remind you that in the debate in the principle of the SRS parliamentary group, it has pointed out that our position should be in the composition of the Council for the Breeding tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars to propose the Serbian Orthodox Church, because it has records of various sites where our people died. In detail, with a lot of arguments, General Bozidar Delic has just presented on this basis. These sites are numerous, and the records of them are of great importance. That is why the promoter should consider many suggestions from the SRS parliamentary group and take all our amendments much more seriously, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40718	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40719	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. A bill on war memorials. After a long time and after a number of names of the countries we lived in, it was finally time for this matter to be done in a proper legal manner. The Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people have a long and glorious war tradition and it is good that all our war epopes and all our countrymen, who have given their lives for their homeland, are covered by one law. However, it is not only a matter of writing down our sites and writing down prominent fighters for the freedom of our people. It is necessary to take care of these things all the time, especially to mention these things in an adequate way in our education systems. Unfortunately, our history textbooks today promote other values and distorting facts lead to our young generation’s error. That's why I'm not surprised we recently had a promotion here in downtown Belgrade. Kosovo cultures, called "Mirdita", to which we radicals reacted sharply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40720	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Delich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40721	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of the importance of this law after so many colleagues, I don't think there's any need to, but I want to draw attention to something else that we've seen working on this law, and that's the point of suffering. We know that when it comes to our newer history, especially since the Balkan wars, and finally with the latest wars of the 1990s, there are thousands and thousands of places of death. And it's listed in this law. We just want to know why the concentration camps are left out? Because there's no way we can conclude that the people who work on this bill are not so informed that they're going to bring prisons, captivity, and drop concentration camps. In prisons, I already said that, individuals were killed and dozens or thousands of people were killed, and millions of Serbs died in World War I concentration camps, ending with World War II. Are you gentlemen afraid of someone? Has anyone given the task of not writing a camp, especially a concentration camp? We know who invented camps in World War II. We know that this is an important state and that this state, as some say, will determine both Kosovo and Metohija's fate, but we were never a people who retreated, kept silent and who could not and could not tell the truth. I'd really like you to tell me, gentlemen, did you drop it because you don't want anyone from the German embassy to read that we've put a concentration camp in our law? Because, in the end, Germany, as the main occupation force, was also responsible for what its allies were doing in the territory of Yugoslavia, so it is responsible, after all, for concentration camps in which tens, hundreds of thousands died in the most severe torments, and when I say millions, it means, surely over a million Serbs in two world wars. That's why we're making one serious, most serious remark. It's not a game of words, it's just two words you should have entered into this law, and then we'd be sure you mean it. We know that you as the Ministry are just responsible for the memorials and we as the SRS know, in fact we think a lot more about the memories abroad than about the memories that are in our country's territory and that you and the Foreign Ministry are going to work on the state of the memorial that is today in the next period. If you are afraid to state only two words, then if you do not introduce the Serbian Orthodox Church into this council, perhaps again because of the state of relations of the Serbian Orthodox Church and so on. Macedonian Orthodox churches, then we will certainly not participate in this vote and will not vote positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40722	A colleague of Martinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported on Mr. Delic's amendment. I fully understand the intensities of the applicant for the amendment and he's essentially right about the good part. I just want to make a few notes. I don't think anyone here is afraid of anyone, we're not afraid of anyone from any embassy. To you, Mr Delic, it is very well known that the representatives of Serbia's highest state leadership, I am primarily referring to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, I think of the ministers in the Serbian government, each year to pay tribute to those who have suffered in Donjo Gradina, Republika Srpska, where there was one of the largest sites in the Jasenovac camp. As you know, Alexander Vukic has just initiated a mark of Serb persecution from Republika Srpska. On August 4th, it has been done regularly for several years. It is a great day of sadness and a great day of memory of a sad event that took place in 1995, which lasted several days, but for those few days, as you know, ethnically was almost completely cleared the territory of the then Republika Srpska Krajina, except for eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srem, which were peacefully integrated in the composition of the Republic of Croatia in 1997. I agree with you, you're essentially right, but it may be a bit degutant, but as a lawyer, I just want to give you a formal-legal note, just that you're in mind. The Germans, the Ustashas and all those who were ruthlessly killing Serbs, Jews, Roma, Russians, Poles in the course of World War II in their camps in Auschwitz, Mathauzen, Buhenvald, Treblinka, Jasenovac, Stari Gradišci, Jadovna, etc., they avoided, deliberately avoided the term concentration camp. Of course, it was clear to everyone that it was the concentration camps, that it was the camps for mass destruction and extermination of people, but the Germans and the Ustashas realized that these camps were formally called different, not concentration camps. You watched, she watched the vast majority of Serbian citizens, the horrifying footage from the Three gate in Jasenovac, where that Ustasha in a black uniform, guards with a rifle on his shoulder, and behind it writes – the Jasenovac assembly and labor camp. So they stayed away from the term concentration camp. They knew that someday some of them would be responsible for the crimes committed, and then these camps, which were essentially concentration camps, which were camps for mass destruction of all those who were opposing religion, nation or ideological commitment, would be called gathering and labor camps, as was the case with Jasenovac, or simply called labor camps. I think that whatever they were called, the term "prisonment" referred to in Article 2. The draft law on war memorials certainly includes concentration camps and all other torture sites for our people and for all other peoples who suffered hard in World War II. For this reason, I hope that in the day of voting this bill will get your support, because we share the same beliefs, when it comes to this topic, which is that it really needs to mark every place where Serbs, where Jews, Roma, are eventually members of any other nation, but of course our people are primarily killed, imprisoned and tortured only because they are members of the Serbian nation and Orthodox religion. In that sense, I think that term is well chosen, because it covers all the institutions where people are imprisoned, whether they were called gathering camps, labor camps or otherwise. I don't think we should, because of the terminology and the termological considerations that we share in this matter, because you, me, and yours, and my parliamentary group, I mean, we share the same beliefs, and that's that every place where Serbs have been killed is marked. After all, I am pleased by this, for several years since we marked on August 4th, that day is being called upon by members of all political parties, all MPs, no matter what parliamentary group they belong to, and I am always kind of glad to see people who are from other parliamentary groups, who have contributed to mark the day of the Serbs' death, wherever they happen, whether in the Storm or elsewhere. Unfortunately, these sites were both in World War I and World War II, and in these wars during the 1990s there were many. We paid a huge price. We've often paid that price for our naivety. Sometimes we have participated in other people's wars, sometimes we have died because of someone else's interests, and that is why it is important to learn from all of this, to take care of only Serbia, to take care of only the Serbian people and other Serbian citizens, to look at the world with Serbian eyes, to think of the Serbian head, nobody else's head, nor the American, nor the French, nor the English, nor anyone else's. If we were doing so in the First, and especially in, I have to point out, the Second World Work, today we would be much more, a few million more, we wouldn't have a problem with white plague, we'd be one much more developed, happier state, much more developed and happier people. That is why I am convinced that in the day of the vote, we will reach a consensus and that by voting for this bill, we will once again give a drink to all those who have suffered for the country and who have suffered only because they were members of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40724	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go. (Božidar Delic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. My colleague Delic, not a word, not one sentence, not an insult, not a misread. (Božidar Delic: Does it have to be something offensive? Yes, you must have the right to a replica. (Božidar Delic: It is an absolutely wrong interpretation. Mr. Delich, you have your right to discuss, but you have no right to reply. So you can pick up the amendment. In Article 104, which gives the right to a replica, it writes nicely – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly session is insolently expressing himself, there has been no insult, on a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name, we know that your amendment refers to a discussion, or function, or misreading his presentation. Col. Martinovic expressed his agreement with your presentation. (Božidar Delic: By amendment. ) Is it the first Verse of Radeta, since Verica is the deputy president of the parliamentary group? The word has an amendment holder, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40725	Many things here are absolutely not controversial and can agree with Mr. Martinovic. It's true that the camps, cynically speaking, are golden labor camps. The data says the Ustasha data from that time of praise, saying that 1,400,000 Serbs, Jews and Roma were killed there, German data speak from 900,000 to 1,000,000, and the only commission that ever investigated this is about 730,000 Serbs, 33,000 Jews and 80,000 Roma. I can't agree that this could be taken prisoner. The prison camps are only for soldiers. You know how international law observes prison camps and that soldiers of states who have capitulated or soldiers of the opposite parties who have been held captive in prison camps and that they have had rights, means certain rights guaranteeing international war law. So what was working camps or gathering camps can't possibly be swept under a prison camp. We only found that one remark. We agree on everything, but we believe it is necessary to list camps and concentration camps or just concentration camps, nothing else is disputed between us. We agree in everything on markings, and we support it every year, to be on an even bigger level, but this just stings our eyes. Why is that avoided? I'm telling you right now, we don't accept that this can be taken under a prison camp, because prison camps are intended exclusively for soldiers of the opposite sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40726	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40727	I wanted to warn you, Mr. Arsic, of Article 104 or to ask you nicely to be a little more flexible if you really want to talk about this bill. No one here has ever had a fight or been offended, that's true, but I think you should let MPs exchange arguments. On the one hand, the president of your parliamentary group is calling for a solution to allow as many MPs to vote for this proposal, on the other hand, you hold on so strictly, you do not allow a word to be said, to simply exchange arguments. I think it would be a good idea to simply allow the MPs to discuss this matter. This topic is too wide, we could talk about this topic for days. Unfortunately, there is no place, no street, no age, Malten, where we could not mark some Serbian victims. But it is not good to avoid calling Jasenovac a concentration camp, especially now that some in Croatia politicians, even some quasi historians try to change both the picture and the real meaning, even the number of killed Serbs, Roma and Jews in Jasenovac. It's the only place where there was a children's camp and they're trying to caricate it now, to call it labor camps, so some humanitarian places where they've been gathering people, so in every way, they insult those victims, insult, above all, our national feelings, and it would be good to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40728	My colleague Radeta, perhaps I would quite agree with you that all the days when we discuss some laws are at least as close as this one. I remember the principle debate. Please don't, I don't blame the area, but there was even a question here – were we waging liberating or conquering wars, etc. So, the subject is sensitive, but it's not for everyone, it seems to me, equally. Do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day? (No) I thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remain convinced that the Ministry has used a more accurate and general term "prisonment" because the term "prisonery" includes all types and all types of camps, whatever they are called. What I can't agree with until the end with Mr. Delic, is that there was a strict difference between prison camps, where officers and soldiers were exclusively stationed, and concentration camps, where civilians were killed. There were many officers, many soldiers who were also killed in concentration camps, many of whom were killed in Jasenovac, both members of the official Yugoslav Army and members of the People's Liberation Movement, i.e. the Partizan movement. They were not placed in any prison camps and absolutely no rights guaranteed by The Hague and the Geneva Convention were respected. So, I think the Ministry did well to use this broader term "prisonery" and I think that the term "prisonery" can be subdued and camps, however those who killed other people in those camps, however they were formally called, whether they were collected and working camps, whether they were working camps or otherwise. What I'm saying is, I think it's important that we Serbs take some lessons. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not Franjo Tudjman the first to knowingly reduce the number of victims in Jasenovac. He stated in his book of Unsputy History that in Jasenovac a maximum of 30 to 40 thousand people were killed, but the man who first significantly reduced the number of Serbs killed in World War II was a Serb, you should know that, Bogoljub Kocovic. Bogoljub Kocovic wrote a book of War Victims in Yugoslavia in 1985, four years before Franjo Tudjman. The preface for the book was written by Desimir Tosic, otherwise, later one of the founders of the Democratic Party. Bogoljub Kocovic in that book says, in one place, in more places, that the total number of Serbs killed in World War II is on all grounds, both from the Germans and from the Ustasha, and from the Italians, and from each other's ideological accounts of partisans, Chetniks, Ljotics and others, 487 thousand. So he first dropped that figure from 1,706,000 to the official number of killed or injured in the Second World War in Yugoslavia, he dropped it, as far as Serbs are concerned, to 487,000. So, according to him, per Serb, not according to Franja Tudjman, per Serb, in Jasenovac, Stari Gradiška, Jadovno, in German camps, in the revenges that the Germans carried out over the Serb people, conducted by Italians over the Serb people, in the mutual accounts of partisan and Chetniks, 487 thousand Serbs died in total from 1941 to 1945. Why do I mention this? Unfortunately, among us, among the people of our people there are such that we, in essence, and true enemies on the side, do not need them. We're enough of ourselves. Let's finally be smart, here we are, in 2018, so at least let's agree on this question, unify and add up and support one bill because it is essentially good and because it is essentially, when you read a member per member of this law, refers to every place where Serbs have been killed, whatever the name is. This bill applies to both Jasenovac and Stari Gradiška and Jadovno and Mauthauzen, and Auschwitz, and to the death of Serbs in Machva in the First World War, and to the death of Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the First and Second World War, and to concentration camps in both the First and the Second World War. So, the bill is essentially good and it takes care of all those, i.e. keeping the memory of all those who have suffered from alien hands, sometimes, and from our Serbian hand, unfortunately, and because of that I think the bill deserves support and I think that the ministry's intensity was to be just like this, and I will no longer answer for the word, a little bit broadly, to achieve such a coverage that under the victims all those who have lost their lives as war victims, regardless of the formal name of the institution, if it can be called an institution at all, such as the camp, in which these people have lost their lives. And finally, let me say another sentence of what you said at the beginning of your presentation, how strange history is, that our Serbian, and how much about her, I think we still know little. One of the last victims of the Jasenovac camp was Lieutenant Colonel Pavle Djurisic. So, an officer who was not stationed in any prison camp, who was not helped by any Hague and Geneva conventions and who was captured by the Ustashas along with Zahari Ostojic, Dragis Vasic, Petro Baćovic and the rest of the Yugoslav army officers in the country, was taken from Stara Gradiška to Jasenovac and Pavl Đuršić in April 1945, before the closing of the camp, burned alive. I think that says enough about the bill's formulation being comprehensive enough that every Serb head that has fallen under it, no matter where, no matter where or where.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40730	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40731	I thank you, Chairman. I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. I will agree, mostly, with what counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic said. Why? Because we can't share the victims. The victims are the same to us, with a special piety to each of them, no matter what historical period these victims laid down their lives for the freedom of the Serb people. Why am I saying this? During World War I, and I think it adds up to what Ac Martinovic said, Serbia had 1,247,435 victims. So over 1,200,000 Serbs killed in World War I. The reminders are 28% of the total population, which means 62% of the reproductive population, or 62% of the men aged 18 to 55 years. So it's about a huge number of victims who were not in concentration camps, either the gathering or labor camps, but who gave their lives for Serbia's freedom and for the freedom of the Serb people. The reminders work, 70 years ago, the Nuremberg Process was conducted. In the Nuremberg crime trial that we are talking about, 22 Nazis, fascists, hitlers were indicted in these camps. Of those 22, 12, seven were sentenced to death, three were released. That's how the process was opened for further prosecution. Stalin asked that 50,000 prominent Nazis kill themselves at the Tehran Conference. More than 270 witnesses were heard in the Nuremberg process. More than 2,600 documents were read in the Nuremberg process. All documents contain victims, and those victims who were on the territory of the former Yugoslavia and victims in the camps, are all covered literally by this process. And this process gives us the right to say that the terminology that relates to a legal system that was then set up by the United States, because based on the London Charter, it came to form a legal basis for the conduct of the Nuremberg process, concentrated everything that is now in this law. That's why I think the quality of this law is just a good termology and a well-designed way to mark what it is. Why did I point to these historical facts? These historical facts are irrefutable, absolutely irrefutable. A colleague, Martinovic, pointed out what relates to World War II. In World War I, there were other specificities, we don't have camps the way we had them in World War II, but we have over 1,200,000 victims. Should these victims now be separated from those of World War II? Absolutely not. It's about the victims, the prisoners, those who gave their lives for their country, their people. Because of this, support stands and I think everything we said today points to the quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40732	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40733	To be exact, we don't have a dilemma that war memorials are listed in both camps and concentration camps. In Article 2, an explanation of the terms when the war memorial, as it stands, says – is also the place of death. Already in Article 2(2), it says, the site of death is a place and a wider spatial continent where executions, abuses held in prisons and captivity, with and without stored human remains, tombs or graves. So it's all covered by this definition that you don't have a dilemma at all that we've included all the places where our people were killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40734	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40735	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are countless victims all over the former Yugoslavia killed without a list and without a court. The fate of this unsuspecting army is now unknown to the general public and few have dared to deal with it. One of them was Djuro Zatezalo, who found in Lica alone 97 caves, mass graves of the Serb people, created during World War II. It is little known that the first concentration camp, in fact, is the Gospić camp that covered the Jadovno camps on Velebit, Slano and Metajna on the island of Pag. It was the largest camp in Southeast Europe. No one mentions any more of the personal hot summer of 1941, more specifically the period from April to August, when the camp was closed by the Italians. The occupyer at the time was appalled by the ferocity of a crime the enemy of the Serb people was subjected to. Thousands and thousands of Serbs were slaughtered and thrown into the pits, children were killed with a mallet in their heads, and then they were seduced. These aren't conjectures, this is what one of the criminals said at a hearing on July 15th, 1952. The data is correct. The cover-up of these crimes lasts to this day. The Italians questioned these crimes, and they immediately set off after the closing of the Gospić camp, on September 1, 1941, in these parts, and had already encountered a wall of silence, and numerous pits were covered up, and traces of the crime were carefully blacked out. Yet the sources exist, remained with the Italians, but also with our historians, Đura Zatezala, Daneta Lastavica, Dragan Šucur, Gojko Vesmar, and also on Jadovno he wrote about Atanasia Jeftic. Whether these places of suffering will finally get the right marks, we remain to see, but it will hardly be so, because only one historian and no representative of the church will sit on the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40736	Thank you. The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MPplatimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40737	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, that is, an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the War Memorial Act. In Article 1 The bill of words - regular maintenance and investment maintenance, is replaced by words - regular and investment maintenance. Explanation, I have stated that the amendment is a legal and technical redistribution of the provision of Article 1. The proposal for a law which contributes to the accuracy of that provision. The proposed Law on War Memorials of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs in a comprehensive, comprehensive and unique system manner regulates this very important and important matter, which unfortunately has not been defined for 40 years and more. In formulating the provisions of the bill, the starting base represented a number of applicable rules which are now specified, defined in one legislative proposal. The regulations governing this matter were passed during the period of the existence of the SFRY. At that time, the jurisdiction of the area was divided between the former federal state, such as war memorials, or graves of fighters abroad and graves of members of Allied and other foreign armies in the territory of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, a cemetery of fighters in the country. The practice so far has highlighted the necessary need to pass a new law that would unequivocally define competences, over-replaced outdated solutions replaces new ones, harmonises terminology and regulates this area in line with major changes, where there were three countries, and today's Serbia has been created. The special reason for the adoption of this law is because of the pedestals and due respect of all the victims and missing, as well as their families, and especially those who gave their lives by defending their country in 1999, bombed by NATO aggressors, who in a ruthless and violent way, without a Security Council decision, did great human and material damage to our country. That's why I think the adoption of this bill is too much for the construction of a new memorial complex of all victims, as well as those who were killed, disappeared in 1999 in NATO bombing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40738	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you've already heard from a number of our MPs that the SRS has no objection to the passing of one of these laws. However, it is not enough just to pass the law, it is not enough just to count all the sites and all the victims on which our countrymen and our ancestors died. Unfortunately, there are many such sites in the territory of our present country, in our closer, in our wider environment, there are such sites in other continents, as in Africa, but now we're not talking about it. The most important thing is the attitude of the Serbian state towards these strategies, or these memories, as you are told in the law. We all know that this relationship is not adequate, it's not satisfactory, and that some people are not enthusiastic, who take care of individual complexes, about certain memorials, the question is what would be the situation in these places. We all know here, and we've all heard of the famous grandfather George, who cares about the Thessaloniki military cemetery, but there are other examples like that. Here, let's say, the Chegar Memorial complex near Nis. We have a man, Selimir Selet Markovic, who has been caring for such a memorial complex for 30 years with his family. This man, in an epic and really emotional way, depicts to visitors how and how this famous stoic battle was fought, where they were members of the Serbian army, where they were members of the Turkish army, etc. But the state doesn't care, not only about it, it doesn't care about people like this. So, people like Gjorge, mentioned, who take care of Zeytinlik and this mentioned Markovic, who takes care of Cegra, the state needs to take care of them and how to take care of them, to give them credit, because where luck there are more people like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40740	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40741	Of us Serbs, many peoples have learned literacy and culture. Where are they now and where are we? No wonder we're prone to quick forget. This law, or debate on amendments to this law, should be such that even those who look at us listen to the challenges of certain feelings that they themselves know what we are talking about. Here is a double role and the importance of this law. One is never to forget those who must never forget. The second is that we try to prevent the influence of those who may, God forbid, need to re-emerge to defend the country. It is a pleasure for me to be able to talk about symbiosis, at the time, some state leaders and the Serb peasant people, who mentioned a skeleton on the Cat's Stone raised, which is of particular importance as a monument to culture. It is located in the area of the municipality of Ljubovija on the corners of 924 metres, where at the time, in 1925, the minister of construction launched an initiative and set up a board for raising and mentioning the skeleton. In that committee, at that time, the president of the National Assembly was George Wyfert as governor of the National Bank at the time and about thirty members of Azukovica and Rajevina, who decided to make a mention of the skeleton on the Cat's Stone. The material used for construction and mention of the ossuary is from the village of Kržje and the mountains from the municipality of Krupanj. They brought it, drove it, and built it. It was one of the great battles on the Drina, where the consequences were enormous, of course, by the enemy army and by the Serbs, because about 780 were killed and close to 5,700 wounded or fighters who had to stay out of the machine. Not to mention that in the construction of that monument, a great contribution was made by a great Serbian friend, Dr. Archibald Rice. Do we have such friends in the world today? You'll say we have the president of the state working on it. I personally don't think the situation is as close as it used to be, but we don't have enough respect for ourselves. Here are some people who have minimized Serbian victims. Well, we can't do that, no matter who it is and no matter who it's about, we can't do it, we're being challenged enough, we're trying to threaten, we can't do it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40742	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40743	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since I come from the middle of a perilous past and glorious history, from the middle of a crisscrossed event, married with a rich monumental heritage, I come from a mileshic region in which the monastery of Milesev, the imperial Serb lion from the beginning of the 13th century, is the monumental mausoleum of St. Save and magnificent gallery of medieval fresco-painting. I come from the origins of the White Angel, a fresco with which, through the first satellite image that flew across the Atlantic on July 23, 1962, old Mrs. Europe was raised before the new world. The next year's Mieches celebrates eight centuries of existence. The obligation of the state is to mark that jubilee with dignity. Miseseva has repeatedly been destroyed, burned and robbed through war winds and has always been restored as a spiritual beacon of the Serbian people and a world-renowned cultural and historical monument. It was restored by the people of the region, led by prominent citizens of that time, merchants and cultural MPs. It is only those nations who have these products of their national spirit who are rich, as one American wrote in the Milleschevic book of impressions literally in the 1980s. Mijesevski's end to memorial sites keeps memories and memories of wars and riots, from the Babin rebellion that echoed in 1875, along with the Nevesinj rifle, through the memorial of the complex of war victims in Serbia's environment and NATO aggression in 1999. Some memorials are in good shape, some are devastated. I'll talk about it later through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40744	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marjana Marash submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40745	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, after saying, "remove", the words are added: "unlawfully placed marks". We believe that monumental features, or memorials, should not be removed, unless these marks, or memorials, are set against the law and the free tradition of Serbia, if they insult the national dignity of the Serbian people and other peoples who fought for freedom. In this respect, the amendment specified that the removal of the mark could only be carried out in such cases, in accordance with Article 20 of the proposed law, and not for other reasons and for no other reason which the applicants could state as justified. We have in mind that the decision is made by the competent ministry. Minister, I want to commend your bill, after 40 years, this law is passed. You in law foresee the obligation of local self-government to define funds in the budget and to deal with the regular maintenance of war memorials and the environment around war memorials. I come from the Vrbas municipality where we have a significant number of monuments, mainly from a folk-freedom struggle, while a monument was built for the victims in the 1990s wars, and a monument for the dead Red Army fighters was built. The dates we mark, among other things, are May 9th, July 4th, July 7th, the Day of the Uprising of the People of Serbia, and we mark Montenegro's Day on July 13th, July 27th, and, believe me, when these dates are marked, the representatives of all political parties come and take their place. The municipality had previously provided funds, nurtured tradition and maintained these monuments, primarily for the intervention and pawning of SUBNOR, but had always been provided with funds, the president provided in his budget reserve the funds he had taken care of and cared for the memorials. What I'd like to point out is that there is also a center base in our municipality. At present, the roof suffered damage because it was set on fire, but in that base there is also the printing of the two-number list of Free Vojvodina, which is the second, third number, which is the predecessor of today's Dnevnik. My colleagues from the Parliament club sometimes joke that I read the Dnevnik as an autonomous girl, and I read it mostly because of this tradition, and that's a list that was once printed in the municipality from which I came, the Vrbas municipality. We will certainly also be the center base, and thank you, Minister, for this law has provided for the obligation, because a people who do not cherish their past do not appreciate the victims of their dead, they do not have the right to hope for a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40746	National MP Danila Stojadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Stojadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40747	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted this amendment supplementing the provisions of Article 1. The bill proposes that the law also refers to financing the construction of new memorials, not only to financing maintenance and editing. The amendment is in line with the content of other members of this law which discuss the setting up and construction of war memorials. I'm on my way to a colleague, Stevic. This is a good law, we've waited a long time, and I can tell you that he's come across the enthusiasm of all associations that we own as local communities and the Svilajnac municipality that work very hard to mark all the anniversarys, but there's a great burden on local self-governments or situations where there's been some collection of contributions, etc. This law will now resolve what local self-government is, which are its powers, which are republican powers and all our World War I associations, the Association of Fighters 1912, 1918, as well as associations that embrace World War II are grateful for these solutions. This law is important, and I think it should leave a strong message that it is not forgotten, because as a people, if we don't take care of the past, we won't have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40748	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague, Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40749	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, in Article 1, we have many issues that govern this law, and I believe that, in addition to those issues of importance that are being regulated by this law, it was necessary, or should add to the obligation to declare the appointment and construction of new memorials, because there are still personalities from our past, from our history of older and more recent ones that have made a great contribution to our country's freedom and defence, and also new times are certainly bringing about new events that may be important and condition the need to build new memorials on which we cannot today be anticipated. In fact, as MPs from our parliamentary group have said, I agree that this law is also very important, and it is very good to deal with these issues and to settle all the issues that are related to it. Of course, as always, we don't need to be ambitious and think that this law is the ideal way to solve all these issues and these discussions of ours talk about making attempts or thinking, thinking in a certain direction, and we think that we should upgrade it. If not this time, then at some next step. The very relationship to our past, to history, to the monuments that we had, to the personalities that they marked for a time, speaks of us and of our culture and our consciousness, finally and finally of our humanity. Of course, it was not good to ignore the importance of individual personalities and their contribution to the defense of the country at a certain time, when we talk about history, for example. World War I, etc. Also, it is not good that after a new time and a few decades of NOB, we can easily tear down and remove some monuments from that time of personality that have fought Fascism. Therefore, it is necessary to be broad enough, wise enough, and of course it applies to us, to a collective as a nation and as a state, to respect everything that has been important in the fight for freedom and defense of the country, because nothing ever begins from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40750	Thank you. The National MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boskovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to Article 1. The draft law aimed at supplementing and further preciseing this article. The substance of the proposed amendment is to include, in addition to removing the memory that has been illegally erected, the possibility of removing the memory to change the location for justified reasons. I believe that Article 1 should specify the possibility of changing the location of monuments and other memorials in cases where necessary. For example, when it is necessary to prevent the collapse, collapse, destruction of the markings as a consequence of natural disasters such as floods, fires, gliders, etc. For these reasons, I also believe that it is appropriate to supplement Article 1 which specifies the possibility of removing the memory to change the location. As a society, we must pay special attention to and cherish war memorials. They are witnesses of historicly famous and heroic Serb armies. They are historic witnesses of a proud and unbreakable Serbian people, a people who, through history, struggled for freedom and country, did not care that in this same struggle, they did not. He suffered huge human casualties. Our victims are both soldiers and civilians, both women and children. Serbia has waged defensive wars throughout history, defending itself against various powerful to the teeth of armed and powerful aggressors and enemies. In the 20th century alone, there is almost no generation that has not felt the horrors of war beginning with the liberating, Balkan wars, then the First and Second World War, until the war acts of the 1990s when our previous state of Yugoslavia and NATO aggression against Serbia were torn apart in 1999. I believe that in this year 2018, when it is 100 years old since the end of World War I, we have a special moral obligation to not only war memorials but also other kinds of social activity to remind all the heroes who have given their lives for the freedom of our people. With a special pie, we remember the Duke of Stepa Stepanović, Zivojin Misic, Radomir Traveler, we remember our heroes who passed the Albanian gogogoto, our Thessalonikians, we remember the unbreakable Iron regiment and its warrior exploits from 1912 to 1918. We also remember the record of the Serb soldier's combat morale, and today I will remind you of only one who is particularly convincing to me, because it was left by the occupation soldier, the corporal of the 11th Regiment of the 9th Austrian Division, the participant of the Cerska and Kolubar Battle and the famous writer Egon Ervin Kish, said of the Serb soldiers – only in Serbia in 1914 did I realize that the love for the freedom of small peoples is stronger than the violence of the great and powerful, only here did I realize that the unsuspecting force is better controlled by everything, and that the weakness of force is in what is believed only in force. We must not forget the famous anti-fascist struggle fought by all the free world. We must not forget the sacrifices our people have suffered in that battle. The huge material and irreparable human losses suffered Serbia and the 1990s. Our soldiers suffered, but on the threshold of the 21st century, innocent civilians and women and children. This is why today we proudly remember all our heroes, heroes, soldiers and civilians who have left their lives on the defender of our country. We must not forget the historical facts. We must not diminish the Serbian victims given in the past. We must not allow the revision of our own history to hide the truth by ending historical events, and the least we can do is to know what sacrifices we have suffered as a people, who are heroes who have given their lives for our freedom and to repay them with historical memory, and some of that memory is certainly monuments. The war memorials we're talking about today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40752	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Schulkic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40753	I thank the chairman. The next amendment that we have submitted to the title of the law, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 1 which basically introduces a commitment to planing work to find especially those hidden sites, i.e. the site of death in the war and postwar period. In our opinion, the law itself should have a far broader meaning and should not be reduced to maintaining only municipal maintenance, cutting grass, not saying weeds, because it is a detached practice, and nothing of course is directed specifically to you, but it is one social relationship in general towards monuments, according to the memorials. In that sense, we think that we lack a software relationship, or marking a program jubilee that is related to certain memorials, so that it does not happen to us as very scarcely undetected marking of the battles that occurred during the great war, the First World War, because it is now practically a hundred years old. We are witnessing at the same time that our neglect on the other hand is being called or public debates that are already crossing the line of auditism when it comes to World War I. I think a mistake or a failure to explain where you said that after the change, there were three countries, and now Serbia. Serbia, after the collapse of the state community, restored its statehood, and in this sense it could have been otherwise formulated. Once again, I point out the importance of research, not just any institutional one. I will also quote an example -- a grave site in the cemetery of the Old Village, therefore, in one village in the Great Plan, where several dozen recruits of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were buried, that this place is unmarked, so there is no pretentiousism, because among those killed there are Slovenian recruits, the royal army, there are Muslims, so here I point out once again the importance of research, i.e. institutional research and recording.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40754	Thank you. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Komlenski, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40755	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, dear ministers, my view is that there is a need for an amendment to respond to Article 1 of this law, because Article 1 is practically determined by the subject of this law, by marking the groups of relationships that this law regulates. In fact, I suggested that, behind the words, "questions of importance for protection" be added the word "position". Why? By reading this law, it implements from all of this that it is not only about maintaining the memories that already exist, about keeping them, and about who and what authority they will have, but also in the future, where there is an assessment of the need to build new monuments, monuments and all that. Namely, this law makes it clearer, so to speak, only in Articles 18 and 19, where it says – a proposal for a removal order, i.e. a proposal for building and setting up a war memorial must contain, etc. It's in article 19. I think it would be very important that in this law, in the adoption of this amendment, in this way, we make it clear that where we have so far not marked something that needs to be marked, we make it clear that it will be done, because later the procedures, which this law prescribes, clearly open up these possibilities. Please consider this. It will not essentially affect the quality of the law itself, but I think it will contribute much more to making it more understandable and clear what is being achieved, among other things, by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40756	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, in accordance with Article 161(4) and Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendment of the People's MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic to Article 1(1). The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and not voted on, so you have no right. Well, co-worker, you haven't been since yesterday, you know you can't stand two amendments to one of the same members. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Filipovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40757	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, here today we have started discussing amendments to this significant law. Significant not only to preserve our memory of our ancestors, who left their bones in both Serbia and the former Yugoslavia and across Europe, but this law is also important for the future. We are all aware that there is no future that people who do not remember their past, who do not remember, first of all, their glorious past, who are not proud of their ancestors who, I said, have left bones throughout their homeland, defending something that is most expensive, which is freedom, that is what we have today, and defending the lives of those who have continued to live and to last after them. Our obligation today is to adopt one of these laws, not to forget all those who have been killed, not to forget every name and last name and one soldier and one civilian who are victims of the occupiers who have been harassing these premises, not to forget any name, not one name and one soldier who has left his life for us, for our children and for those who will live tomorrow in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40758	Thank you. By amendment, MP Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40759	Thank you. Vice-President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the amendment of Serbian MP Filipovic, reads: "The Law on War Memorials provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on the fight against corruption." I ask Serbian MP Filipovic to explain in what way this pathetic speech he gave, which only offends the people he spoke about, can contribute to us when we need to decide on this amendment and the question – is he ashamed to submit this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40760	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40761	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. This is expected. So, the DS was waiting for amendments to the SNS MPs to talk about what they say from session to session and, now, it is the first to strike my colleague Filipovic – his amendment is pointless, stupid and Miss Jerkov invites him to further explain what he wanted me to say. Here, I'll help him out a little bit. The only Liberation War in which the DS participated, related to the amendment of Serbia's Filipovic, is the release of the National Assembly from election material in 2000, the release of the Federal Customs Administration and the National Bank of Serbia from money. Then they released the Vojvodina Development Bank a little bit, and then they freed Agrobank a little bit, so they released the republican ministries, the regional secretaries, all the local self-governments in which they were in power, devastated all of Serbia, and now we want this amendment by Mr. Serbian Filipovic to once and for all break up with the practice of robbing our own state, because this state was created in the blood of those who freed it from the aliens and the occupiers. If anyone should be ashamed, it should be a shame to the DS MPs, who spit today, spit on all the free and heroic victims of the Serb people, and now they do so by attacking SNS MPs who have submitted the amendments. He says it should be the shame of Serbia's Filipovic. It should be a shame to you. You left us a country in ruins. A large monument should be erected in one place in Serbia and said – this monument is dedicated to all the victims of the transition carried out by the DS... (President: You are bringing the end, colleague Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... To all those who have lost their jobs, to all those who have raised hands on themselves, because they have not been able to feed themselves and their family members, to buy basic intentions for themselves and for their family members. If anyone should be ashamed, it should be a shame to you, the people of the DS regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40762	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40763	Thank you, Vice President. I have to ask you, in accordance with Article 103, are you under the impression that MP Aleksandar Martinovic pointed out to you some failure to conduct the session and if you could explain to us exactly what this failure is? Otherwise, you failed to give him an explanation, which is your business obligation. Of course there couldn't have been an explanation, since he didn't want to point you to any failure. He wanted to take advantage of, well, two minutes and 40 seconds, which is another violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you have done, that most brutally offends DS MPs, which will not change everything that the amendment of Serbian MP Filipovic reads – with a special reference to the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40764	My colleague Jerkov, I did not explain to my colleague Martinovic, in fact, answer his injury to the Rules of Procedure because he did not ask the Assembly to plead. In advance, he signaled to me that he did not want the National Assembly in the voting day to make statements about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov: Let us signal you as well, just say how? I don't know how I'm going to interpret that. I mean, it's not my problem, I don't know how everyone's gonna interpret it, so I wouldn't. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes. I thank you. Right to replication, MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40765	Thank you, Chairman. (Radoslav Milojic: something smart, Srbo. ) It is my real pleasure to replicate those who robbed this country, those who called upon NATO bombing to last as long as possible, those for whom many of our civilians died because they wanted to, just to get to the chair and the authorities, just to rob banks, just to rob state and social property through privatisations, only to fire 400,000 people from their jobs, to do everything just to get to power, even if the more the Serbs died, the better DS and their mentors. That's why I'm very proud, and I'm proud to hear from them when the word of corruption is mentioned in our amendments, the DS members jump immediately. So I'm glad, they're gonna keep jumping, we're gonna keep working for the citizens of Serbia, and this is the real face they showed. When it comes to what they should be proud of as citizens of Serbia, about preserving their traditions, remembering their ancestors, they report on corruption. They recognized each other. He's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40766	According to the amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40767	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I don't know what in this amendment to the respected Serbian Filipovic, thinks Zvonko Vesenovic? I don't know what all the idiots who've been tearing down around Belgrade think about this amendment. I don't know what this amendment means by the famous SNS beating, Zela? I don't know what about this amendment... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40768	Here, now I'm going to tell you my colleague Milojicic. (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you interrupt me? Why did you take my word? I interrupted your exposure because I will not allow you to abuse absolute immunity in the National Assembly. Radoslav Milojic: Really? () As a National MP, then, you enjoy immunity for any expressed opinion or vote in the National Assembly that can never be hurt, or you can never be judged. Radoslav Milojic: Really? If you're going to call someone without a basis a thief... (Radoslav Milojic): Who called whom a thief, what are you talking about? You called one of your SNS colleagues a beatin' man. Come out... (Radoslav Milojic: Can I have the time? ) Dear fellow Milojic, go to the lobby, hold a press conference, so that whoever you're accusing of such a thing can sue you. (Radoslav Milojic: Can I have the time? Can you get what? (Radoslav Milojic: Give me back my time? I'll give you your time back. First of all, I have nothing to give back, I've interrupted your exposure. So you're talking about the amendment. (Radoslav Milojic: By amendment, that's right. Well, ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40769	About what you're saying, we'd applaud you, but on the SNS's board of directors. This is not the main SNS board, and I ask you to act in accordance with the position you are currently sitting in and doing, which is replaced by the chairman of the National Assembly. The fact that you're defending your party colleagues, that's great. I hope you'll get a round of applause on the SNS General Board because you didn't get a round of applause on the SNS municipal board in Pogorevec, but you got a shot-card, and they replaced you from there. That's your problem and your party's problem. Our problem, the problem with the citizens of Serbia, is that you owed us 10 billion euros, and that man whose name you said and you said about him and those I mentioned were criminals. I didn't even say it was thieves, I didn't say it, and you can take a copy out of the stenogram...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40770	My friend Milojic, you're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40771	I'm asking you not to interrupt me. And if someone's beating up, ask Danil Bobic of the Vrbs that this Zelja... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40772	I give you a warning. (Radoslav Milojic: Why a reminder? Despite my warning, you continued as the old one, I give you a warning. (Radoslav Milojic: What is the warning now? Arsic, every time you chair, you give me one warning, every time. What do you think? My friend Milojić, so don't threaten me. Radoslav Milojic: What do you think? Why are you threatening me? Why are you threatening me? I'm asking you what do you think? Why are you threatening my colleague? Radoslav Milojic: What am I threatening you with? You're threatening me. Radoslav Milojic: With what? I'm asking who I think I am you're already starting a threat. I hear great. [[Radoslav Milojic: You don't hear well?]] I hear great. [[Radoslav Milojic: You don't hear well?]] According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. [[Radoslav Milojic: You don't hear well.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have violated the 107th measure of articles 108 and 109. How? By letting the beatings talk about a man who beat up an old 63-year-old man with the help of a so-called. "Kena's Tigers". (Radoslav Milojic): Where is the warning now, Arsic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40774	Col. Rističević, in order not to cause the same problem, so that you are not now making the same problem as your colleague Milojičić, I ask you to really explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40775	I'm telling you where you broke the Rules of Procedure. Can I say that you violated the Rules of Procedure when you allowed the robbery and the debts to be told by the man who charged Smederevska Palanka with four billion for four years of his authority? Can the robbery be told by the person who sold the pool for 50 years for 2,000 euros? So, all that you've allowed, and I think you've violated the provisions of article 107, respecting your tolerance, respecting everything you've done for the opposition, I don't think you can let someone who beat people up, talk about beatings, someone who's in charge of four billion, talk about debts. So, I think a broken member is 107, but I'm not asking you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40776	I thank my colleague Rističević. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov: On what basis does he now speak? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40777	Mr. Arsic, about article 110.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40778	Is it a matter of business?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40779	That's right, that's right, according to the Rules of Procedure. We're all here to witness what's going on in this room, it's not all they can see are the citizens who are tracking because it's not all heard through the assembly sound, but the fact is that this MP Kenojcic, he's out again, he actually wants you to apply the Rules of Procedure even more rigorously. So now he's made it clear to everyone here. I agree, you're absolutely right to make a warning, but you saw, that's the kind of behavior a man simply asks for. He insists that he receive another warning and that a word-absorbing measure be given in relation to article 110. We're completely clear here why he's doing it. He would now be playing some martyr, I suppose, to join Paunovic when, on Vidovdan, he would be most brutally lying about his country in front of the Council of Europe, to talk there about how persecuted they are. But regardless of the reasons, regardless of the motives, it's clear that they're deeply dishonest, I don't expect from him and the people of his environment any better than that, you should think about sometimes coming out to a man. For example, if he wants to dissipate the National Assembly of his toxic presence, how we had the opportunity to see today, to help him. If he wants to lose the right to show what he's shown here, which shows every time, he's doing it for example today or for the next few days, so he needs to meet a man. I don't need to be broad-minded and understanding more than what people show and expect. Coffee is talked about violence, when it comes to this immunity that you mentioned, you're absolutely right, but sometimes you need to let a man finish thinking. I am convinced that Kenojcic was allowed to finish that sentence, he would start talking about the beatings in his own ranks, so he would talk about those guards and criminals that Paunovic hired before, how long he was, 15 or 20 days, and for whom he said, I am now quoting his words – these are our activists that we brought to beat people who came to the assembly session of the municipality. Well, considering all this, there's no reason for us to vote on this, and let's think about helping Kenojci to make it easier for him, to get better, who knows, maybe that makes him better too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40780	The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40781	Mr. Chairman, I'm calling for article 108. I think you should give another warning. He used the opportunity of a speaker because at the session of the main board or the executive board of DS, the quorum cannot be collected and replaced as chairman of the executive board, and then here he is now trying to teach members of the SNS lessons. Those who once robbed and destroyed Serbia's economy and economy, those who destroyed their municipalities, who today are bothered by the President of the Republic and the Republic government taking care of Serbian citizens and fighting for every new job and for the memory of Serbian victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40782	The word is from the People's MP Bojan Bagica, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40783	Dear Chairman, I call on Article 27, since for who knows which time in this Chamber hall mentions and abuses the name of Danil Bobic, a man who lives in Temerin municipality and lives there, a man who is said to have been beaten by SNS activists in 2013, and we can say how true it is by the fact that in 2014, Danilo Bobic, as a DS boardman, stepped out of the DS and entered a coalition with SNS and other parties that made up most of the Temerin municipality. As the DS referred to Danil Bobic, it can tell us the fact that people from the DS in Temerin, in March 2015, falsified the signature of Danil Bobic and the Secretariat for the work of the province's government of Vojvodina submitted competitive documentation in front of the Ecological Youth Alternative for which the provincial secretary Miroslav Vacin awarded 600,000 dinars. After the grant, they changed, without a congregation, Danil Bobic was removed from the seat of the NGO, appointed another member, and used the funds for the purposes of his party. Now, that's the real truth about DS, about Daniel Bobic, and about who bullied, who abused, who abused and who today abuses Daniel Bobic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40784	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40785	This is the morning EPP. It'll be like this and in the afternoon in one period. Of course, it is the right of MPs and opposition to attack authorities to defend themselves. But since this debate on the amendments started this morning, I want to take advantage of this Rules of Procedure to ask the MPs and you as chairman, we still have no knowledge of the whereabouts of the MP, still the MP Meho Omerovic? We need to get to the truth. You know, he's still on the record of the MPs. To remind me that he committed theft at the Frankfurt airport, that he had been called there for diplomatic status and that it caused a major scandal. If those of his party think, and you, too, whose list he was on, that we may be silent after a few days, the worse the mouse was born, we will not. But we're worried because no one will tell us what's wrong with Meh Omerovic. If he hasn't shown up in days, for almost a month, it might be wise to put out an APB, to find a man. Who knows, maybe he figured out what he did, so maybe he put his hand on himself. Who knows. He's gone. He doesn't show up anywhere. Give us that information. Really, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40786	Indeed, colleague Radeta, it is not in my jurisdiction to take care of that. Do you want to make a statement? (No) Okay. Comrade Jerkov, do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40787	Thank you. I just wanted to ask my colleagues from the SRS and the former SRS to stop as great patriots to mock the people who gave their lives for this country, to mock their victims, to mock their courage, to mock their families, to mock their descendants, by making fun of even this law, when their mouths are full of patriotism and regret for those people and respect for those families, they will use their low accounting with political insolents, because apparently they don't know how to function, nor did they know in the last 30 years. I'll say it again. The amendment of Serbia's MP Filipovic is that the establishment of war memorials should ensure the fight against corruption, period. That's the amendment we're talking about. Fellow Members, please withdraw these amendments. Don't embarrass yourself and the congregation and the citizens, even on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40788	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica to the mention of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Bishop Nikolai said – Don't steal your country because it rests on the bones of those who fought for its freedom. And, the amendment by Serbia's Filipovic makes sense, because while some fought for freedom, some were rich. The people of the former regime got rich. They also got rich between 2000 and 2012. Some of them have been rich before. Don't forget, they made the famous 90s, as some others were in power, and they, poor, were in opposition, fought for democratic Serbia. Wait, whose ministers in various Milosevic governments were Miodrag Perisic, Slobodan Radulovic, etc? Well, they were their ministers. Mr Filipovic's amendment is that if we want to keep a memory of our ancestors who fought for Serbia's freedom and for the freedom of the Serbian people, then there is no room for corruption in Serbia, because whoever steals his own state, he throws away all those who fell for its freedom. You should be ashamed of everything you did to Serbia during your reign, for all those cynical and hypocritical and Pharisee apologies you gave to various Serbian enemies because they killed Serbs. You apologized to Serbian enemies for killing Serbs in "Blash" and "Storm". You apologized to Serbian enemies for killing Serbs in Gorazd, Kravica, Skelani, etc. You should be ashamed. While other people fought for the freedom of this people, you robbed banks. You robbed the Federal Customs Authority, you burned the Federal Assembly, you used machine guns to break into the NBS. They're the only Liberation Wars you've been involved in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40790	Right on the line, People's MP Verica Radet, to mention the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40791	It is natural that the debate of the MPs, which until the arrival of Aleksandra Jerkov in the hall, was really focused on the subject, on the draft law on war memorials, and yes, it is true that the SRS MPs reminded us that we will continue to remind all Serbian victims, we will remind each victim of the need to show respect, that every crime scene must have a memorial wherever it is, not only in the territory of Serbia, but in the territory of all Serbian countries, and in the whole world where it exists, if Miss Jerkov may know where there is a total of 6,000 Serb cemeterys, the cemetery of Serb warriors, but probably when she was trained there in the CIA, they did not teach her about it. They taught her something the opposite of that. You know, that someone who is a folk MP like Aleksandra Jerkov can say that Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal, and the verdict doesn't say that, and she's not saying that because of Vojislav Seselj, she's saying that she would help her friends from Ustasha Croatia to say one day -- here, you Serbs have banished the Croats from the Croats, which, of course, is absolutely not true. This is what she spoke of on one Croatian television and it was really terrible to listen to someone who was a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia saying everything she said against the state, against the government, against the work of the opposition, against the president of the state. So, something like that, I think he was surprised by the show leader, and he couldn't say all that about Serbia what Aleksandra Jerkov was saying on that show (President: You are bringing the end of Radeta's colleague. I'm done. So, it's no surprise, probably during the day, and her colleagues will try this way to downplay, not this bill of yours, Minister, but to demean Serbian victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40792	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40793	Thank you. An amendment that is under review that requires that everything the law has to say about war memorials be defined, but with special reference to the fight against corruption, whatever propaganda you use, whoever you slander, whatever you agree, will not help not to see that it is a disgrace. (Alexander Martinovic: Yes, we all lied. You're very honest. ) National MP Martinović, throws, along with unsuccessful cynicism – egg, we lie to you all, you poor thing. You're lying too. Propaganda that you're trying to hide how embarrassing it is to put in any member of the War Memorial technique that is otherwise legal to use in other laws, I don't think it's legitimate, but legally it is. The absence of elementary morality, the elemental honor, the elemental dignity to deal with some law in the Assembly, you show with amendments like this currently in the search, that we are dealing with war memorials, definition, and taking care of them with special reference to the fight against corruption. There's no way to reach any of you. Nor do we think that's the point, to come to our senses together, and that if you haven't already been taught by your grandmothers what's not done, then at least here in dialogue with each other we understand what's not done. So, you're the only one doing your wrong job. Please make the amendments that war memorials are places for special reference to the fight against corruption, for specific reference to the functioning of the judiciary, for special reference to childcare, for special reference to agriculture, etc., etc. All those tricks of amendments that I repeat, it's legal to use them in any other law, but the attitude as far as there is no measure and the attitude as we mock the dead people of Serbia is obvious in these amendments, whatever propaganda we cover, whatever we try to share in this hall instead of what's black in white. Not to mention that the government refused, of course, those amendments, not considering them, both this and every other similar, suitable for a law which is in particular in the search. The play, the propaganda, the ugly, the sad, the inadmissible and the assembly unworthy of play. It doesn't matter what it is about dead people, that we continue what we play in the congregation. Everyone stays in the stenogram of what he's done, every cheek and every amendment. My request is - don't do it all day. I have no hope of having ears in which I can stab these fundamentally polite and reasonable words, but it does not prevent me from, with my attitude, the amendments that we have submitted, from playing with some things of disdain and slander because verbal violence and violence against the procedure in the Assembly amuses you. Some things aren't for mocking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40794	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I talked about it the other day in the National Assembly. I didn't have these quotes in front of me, but here, I'm gonna use them now. Cedomir Antic wrote about you at the time of the 1997 talks with US Special Representative for the Balkans Robert Gelbard. Otherwise, Cedomir Antić is a member of the political council of the party, Vuk Jeremic, and the president is so-called. The advanced club, and in 1996, or 1997, was one of the leaders of a student protest and was then a member of the Democratic Party. He says, therefore, that's his words for "The Sunday Day" since 28 May 2017 – At the end of one of the talks Gelbard said: "You know, I told your President Milosevic, and now I repeat to you, I look nice and smooth, Harvard, State Department, Ambassador, et cetera, but frankly, I'm scum, skam and they always send me to work with scum, because I'm successful." So, I think there's no better picture of you than these words. You were also left with what Robert Gelbard said in 1997 about a part of the Serbian opposition, and you should be ashamed, because your president, Boris Tadic, was courting a journalist from Croatian television, asking whether he was proud that the president of the Republic of Serbia had responded in such a non-chalant way – and I am not very proud. And then he explained it -- you know, Vukovar, you know, Dubrovnik, you know, Srebrenica, you know this, you know, not mentioning Jasenovac, not mentioning... (President: You are bringing the end of your colleague Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... A flash, not mentioning the Storm, etc. And you should be ashamed of just one more thing. In your ranks is a woman who openly advocates the Republic of Vojvodina. Here, he's just entering the National Assembly Hall. And don't lecture us on respect for Serbia and the victims of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40796	Since I see where this is going, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Because of the pyate against all the victims of wars and conflicts and those who fought for Serbia's freedom, I will not allow any further discussion of this kind to continue, so that we continue the debate in particular on amendments. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40798	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not slave to ideological history, I think it is time for the seeds of discord, which gave Serbia a record offering, to be thrown out of a field called Serbia, the fertile, the good, the beautiful and our fields. The peasant army was the Serb army. She didn't war for other people's territories, she fought for her country's freedom, she fought for her field, no matter how funny it was for them, for their fields, for their homes, for her house, for her plum, if you will, she didn't fight for glory, or to conquer territories. This is about camps. Many forgot that in World War I there were camps for Serbs. In Austria about 150,000, in Germany about 50,000, there were also in the Czech Republic, but that counts as Austria, Bulgaria is not known. In doing so, over 90,000 of which 70,000 were captured soldiers, and 20,000 civilians died in those camps. In Doboj, half my father's hometown and grandfather died in the camp. We must not forget these camps, but we must also not forget the people who did not conquer the territories, who conquered the Kymacchans, who were forced to conquer freedom from a territory that was not then Serbia. I'll read the orders of Duke Music, the famous First Army commander, I'll read one piece. He says - command number 10.001, 5th of June 1917 - a foot-and-mouthed supporter is praised, the representative of the machine commander of the Second Battalion of the 23rd Infantry Regiment, from 9 to 29 August 1916, showing great skill in handling machine fire and enemy, caused great losses, 11 September 1916, in conquering the Turtle-Otta Čuka, which, at the same time, broke out with the firing machine and helped keep the winning position and the enemy's counter-attack refused. He was badly wounded on that occasion. The order refers to Lieutenant Dragoljub Mihajlovic, whom we don't even know the grave. Well, Serb brothers, Serbian sisters, Serbian citizens, it's time for Serbs who are used to talking a lot about heroes, and who care little about them, to find out one day where this hero's grave is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40799	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40800	Thank you, Chairman. I just called to talk about the amendment that was previously under discussion, and I'm not allowed to use your slip. The comment is the same, therefore, and this amendment, which adds that the Law on War Memorials provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to agriculture, is unworthy of discussions in the Assembly, unworthy of victims and unworthy of the topic covered by the law. In an attempt to routinely use the same technique on the first two members of the law, Amendments 300, 400, 500, we have overlooked that this law is not for such an act, that is, if you do not have any piety, no dignity, no honor, no respect for those who, at the time, died for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40801	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Please, Mr. Arsic, take care of this in the future. First of all, no SNS amendment is pointless. This isn't a game. The Democratic Party MPs may be taking part in the play by Dragan Gilas, who reported assets of 25,000,000 euros, the same Dragan Gilas, who changed the names of all the streets in Belgrade by Soviet officers who participated in the release of Belgrade, claiming to be a party of some democratic left. All amendments of the SNS MPs have been assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law that they are in conformity with the Constitution and the legal system and the fact itself, these amendments cannot be pointless. Whether the government accepted them or not, that's another topic. Some amendments will be accepted by the government, some won't, but we will defend all amendments, because all amendments and how they make sense. Exactly what Mr. Marijan Risticevic said is the best confirmation of how meaningful his amendment is, well, how many farmers, how much heavy hands gave life for Serbia's freedom, for the freedom of the Serbian people, and we don't even know their grave spots. Do you think that as a country in the end, we would be able to raise war memorials, mark the places of our people's suffering both in Serbia and out of Serbia, that there is no policy led by the SNS, which includes both the development of agriculture and the development of the economy and the fight against corruption and budgetary surplus and reduced unemployment. It's all clear and it's all connected, it's not only clear to you who ruined and devastated your own country. There is no example in Europe that one government to this end has ruined its own state, such as the government by 2012. We will repeat that throughout the debate on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40803	Thank you. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I deeply regret what my colleagues in the opposition interpreted during my presentation. The Serbian army was a peasant army, she felt that what the regiment earned, the sword had to defend. The Serbian peasant held one hand on the plow, today the workers on the plow, and the other hand he held on to the sword, ready to defend his country, is ready today to make a living for the memorials. I urge everyone to come to India on 28th to discover the Milnuki Savik monument. She's not an adult there, but she'll have a monument there. And she was from the village, she was a woman, a mother, a hero, and we made it up to her. Farmers, but also other citizens in India, felt that there was something to be earned for memorials, for monuments, for memories of our previous peasant leaders. Here's Karadjorgia, at the entrance, standing like this and saying watch the state, because the peasants are also strikers, bearers of state thought. They acquired it, they created it, modern Serbia rests on peasant blood. I'm proud that they gave it to me today. The fact that others don't understand that now we have to earn both weapons and monuments to remember our previous generations of peasants, that's their problem. They never freed anyone like the peasants did. Gilas and his leftist millionaire team, they became millionaires by freeing millions of citizens the right to a decent life and money in their pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40805	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40806	Dear Chairman, I wanted to point to Article 103. You should have pointed out that the former regime did not devastate Serbia, robbed from local, regional to republican budgets, that Gilas and Jeremic did not provide the amount of property they have today, that the state was not in contact with the mafia and the tycoons, we would have much more money to take care of children, war memorials and for our mentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40807	National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40808	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing in detail a set of very important laws. Of course, the first law we're talking about is the War Memorial Act and my colleagues and colleagues have just pointed out how important it is with a number of aspects, which we have decided to pass one of these laws. Of course, here first of all I mean the historical memory, the preservation of tradition, and first of all, the self-awareness of its own lifetime through the centuries, because there is one clear, undeniable fact, that the people who forget their history, forget their culture, tradition, the language is doomed to disappearing. With this amendment and a series of amendments that I have submitted, I have just wanted to highlight the importance of this law and to support it from the fact that it is in front of us, but in a set of these laws that we are discussing, I would particularly highlight the bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family with children. Why? You know, when we talk about the memorials, if we were to ask all those victims, those people who sacrificed themselves through history for this country, what they wanted most, I'm deeply convinced that as a price to pay them back, they want children born here and this people to be restored. That's why I think it's precisely the fact that in the set of laws that we're discussing there is such a law, perhaps the best way to repay all the sacrifices our people have given over the centuries, fighting for freedom and sometimes for naked survival. That's why, Mr. Minister, and to this Family Support Act with children, I have proposed one of the amendments, not only to this first law, to further support mothers who give birth to children and who restore the nation. Of course, with historical circumstances, the Serbian people have suffered a huge sacrifice. Let's remember that RTS series, it was a few years ago, "Where lemon yellow blooms," and let's remember the words that the great actor then said, unfortunately, late Dragan Nikolic, when he said he hoped that the time had passed for suffering and dying and that the time had come for us to rejoice in life and to rejoice in Serbia's future. That is why I think it is very important that we, in this way, create conditions in this country for birth, for survival, for the conditions where children will remain in Serbia, in fact, in the best way we repay all the victims through the centuries, the victims for the freedom and survival of this people. So I believe that we will, of course, support all these laws, and if it is not possible to put additional material security into this law for mothers who are giving birth, I would ask the Government to propose amendments and amendments to the Health Insurance and Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40809	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40810	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting on the amendment of my previous colleague, who is one of the more acceptable SNS amendments, unlike the others that I think we shouldn't have discussed here under this bill. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you can see that most MPs are meant to pass a new law on war memorials after 40 and more years. Of course, our victims, the many Liberation Wars, you've covered the period since 1912, and I hope until the 1990s and these wars deserve to have a memorial of markings, to have memorial centers, to deserve to be cared for, not to be like so far many of them abandoned and forgotten. Unfortunately, many of the bones of Serb soldiers and soldiers of other nationalities, which are in Serb Liberation Wars, are scattered across many countries of Europe, and God knows what. You stated that in detail in the bill. However, on my own during an official visit to Skopje, I experienced that the Association of Serbs in Macedonia tells us that our mentions are literally forgotten by the state. So now I hope, like all of us, that we will also draw attention to all these mentions and that with all due attention we will cultivate tradition, memories of all our victims of the Serb people. However, I have come from Resava with a centuries-old liberation tradition since the First Serbian Uprising and the famous Duke of Stevan Sidelic and his Resava heroes who died on Chegra. I simply have one question – will this law include the mention of war marks from the First Serbian Uprising and what law will this mention be addressed to the markings and memorial centres? In Svilajnc we also have a monument to Stevana Sijdelić and a memorial to the house of Stevan Sijlić, and in Nis the tower is dedicated to the warriors and our Serb military leaders from that period. From which funds, since we have now divided local self-government and the state budget and funding method, from which the funds will be kept, nurtured and maintained the mention of the markings. In the end, I failed, due to my amendment by mistake, but I would support the amendment of my colleague Stojadinovic and my colleagues, Komlenski. You can see that once the right and left can agree, that nowhere in this law, except for Articles 18 and 19, you have not inserted the word – raising or building or setting, setting up new memorials. It is important, Mr. Minister, to determine clearly, at least in the first article, that we not only worry about the arrangement, about financing, about investment maintenance, it is important to stand up and build or set up or whatever you consider that term acceptable to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40811	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40812	Thank you. With the observation that this is one of the few amendments that can be submitted, as it is a proposal from the MP to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the preservation of tradition. That makes sense, as much as it takes to explain what it means to preserve tradition and who it is to do what it's in charge of. But that's not just why I'm answering, but to ask the chairman if I can make amendments to the Financial Support Act for families with children? I'm asking nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40813	You can't, Col. Comic, you know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40814	Thank you. The MP has a different opinion, I'm asking about the situation... (Alexander Martinovic: The more interesting topic is the Vojvodine Development Bank. )......................................................................................................... The People's MP is running for other topics, and I'm asking because the MP who proposed the amendment was right, and I'm asking if I have one. If I don't, it's your right and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40815	He did not abuse his colleague in any part of the Rules of Procedure, nor the right, but he very well imported the memory of you, not of you, but of our soldiers and innocent victims with that we need to have children who will continue to cultivate that tradition that we are now finally establishing. Is that a problem? It's only in that context. Here you go, Col. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40816	Chairman, I have unreserved respect for your decisions, so there is no need for you to explain to me that you like that MP Radoslav Jovic has rights that I do not have. If it's about the kids...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40817	You're twisting my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40818	... Believe me, I can make a very nice commitment to how four children are born and how four children are taught patriotism, the preservation of tradition, their origin and everything children need to know from their families. But I respect your suspicion that I'm not capable of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40819	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Obradovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40820	I thank the chairman. The esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens, we MPs to the amendments we have submitted, we show in what areas of life Serbia has progressed since the state's care took over, with Alexander Vukic at the helm. Today, we have a set of laws in the field of working martial and social issues. Among these laws is the law we're talking about today, a bill on war memorials. This law legally regulates the matter that has so far been regulated by the laws of the SFRY period, the Law on the Editing and Maintenance of Cemeteries of Fighters, the Law on the Marking and Maintenance of Cemeteries and Graves of Members of the Federal Army and other foreign armies in the territory of Yugoslavia and the Law on Cemeteries and Graves of Fighters abroad. By passing a new general law from this sphere, an important aspect of social action is being arranged. This law shows that we respect those who fought for the Republic of Serbia in both recent and earlier wars. This law also shows that we respect and do not forget our wartime allies and that I want us to honor their graves or places of death with dignity. With respect to tradition and those who have fought for the freedom of the Republic of Serbia, we are largely affirming the progress that the Republic of Serbia has made in recent years since SNS has exercised power. We Serbian allies will never forget and honor their sacrifice for the Republic of Serbia, and we will lead an open and fair policy both towards partners in the east and towards partners in the West. Such a diplomatic approach is recognised every day. Serbia today is a trusted and respected partner in the international community, and President Aleksandar Vucic grew up to be undoubtedly the largest leader in the region. In the voting day, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40821	The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40822	Mr. Vice President Arsic, Mr. Minister, who is witnessing the discussions of the MPs of the people, the citizens of Serbia who, unfortunately, have to watch this, the MP who just spoke of my great grief and I choose words and I choose a tone to refer to the essence and what just happened. One of the SNS MPs has now discovered everything the opposition MPs have been telling you about, the DS MPs of the past few days, which is that there is no law, such as the law on war memorials, which is an obstacle for SNS to light on, to concentrate that there is no policy and that political disagreement that will be an obstacle to such things, this is not the subject. It's amazing what my colleague said. I have to do it for the public, because of the stenogram, because of the history and the new pages of the disgrace that the SNS has written these days, because something like this is not an obstacle to them speaking. I quote the amendment, and in that sense, there is no chance of you interrupting me. Therefore, the amendment to the Law on War Memorial has been submitted with a special reference to the functioning of public enterprises. It wasn't the end. The MP said in explaining her amendment that this is a subject to reminding itself of the successes of the government of the Republic of Serbia. If you are reminded that the sacrifices that have given their lives for this country, which cannot answer you today, is not a warning that you break something like this and withdraw these amendments, I just have to realize that they are dangerous people who do not know about shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40823	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40824	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. Here, I'll do it again. We will not allow seven MPs who ask God more and who they belong to, whether they are the Gilas, whether they are the Jeremics, whether they are municipal children, whether SNS MPs serve as a punching bag. The lady who spoke a little bit was very sad today. It is saddened by the amendments, and saddened that Serbian citizens have to watch this, only it was not sad when Gilas was in power and when he stole 25m euros, when he robbed the Belgrade city's budget and made a debt of over a billion euros. Now they're very sad, and they weren't very sad when these same children were robbed in development through the construction of children distracted by the development of Hetherland in New Vienna. Now they're all very sad. They weren't sad when they robbed Vojvodina Development Bank. They were not sad when they staged tenders in the AP Vojvodina, when they staged tenders in the city of Belgrade. You weren't sad when they started building a bridge without a building permit. They weren't sad when the bridge turned out seven times as expensive as the originally agreed price. Then they weren't very sad. Today something, I see, is very sad, very bereaved, everything bothers them – mentioned by Aleksandar Vukic, mentioned by the Serbian Government? What if they didn't mention it? What if it wasn't for a man who was one of the most responsible, if not the most responsible, that the unemployment rate was reduced from 26% to 12%, which we have a budget surplus, not a deficit, which we have a gross social product growth of plus 3.5% to 4%, and not a minus 3.1% as in their time? What should we not mention? We mention it, so it's the best monument to the state of Serbia that we can raise today. A developed, successful, advanced Serbia, it's a monument that we all raise, and people from the Serbian government and we MPs who support that government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40825	Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back to work at 3:00. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blazo Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40827	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, this law creates the necessary conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage, related to wartimes, and by regulating and maintaining war memorials we cultivate tradition for future generations. That the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking care of the cultural heritage related to the periods of war and before the adoption of this law, it best speaks for the draft contract of last year when the company "Memory Complex for the Conservation of Cultural and Historical Values of Cera", which will be the bearer of this project for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, when we talk about the Cer and the Cerska Battle, it represents one of the greatest victories, not only in World War I, but also in Serbian history. It was the days when the whole world admired the incredible courage, brilliant tactics and victory of the Serbian people. This conclusion on the memorial complex at Cer was delivered for the realisation of the economy ministries, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Construction and Infrastructure, Agriculture, Defence, Local Self-Government, where the seriousness and clear intention to implement this project is seen, and Cer and Cerski heroes get their memorial complex. The first Allied victory in World War I led by Duke Stepanovic and a large number of Serbian soldiers, heroes who gave their lives, deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40828	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjušević Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40829	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, we view this law as a cultural heritage from an angle that was less present before and now we're putting a bigger accent on that corner, which is a cultural heritage as a resource. When we view cultural heritage as a resource in the fields of education, culture, art, economy, tourism, there we will find a great base that can serve us for the present, for a better future. In that base accumulated knowledge, information, skills, centuries ago. When we talk about the corner of observing cultural heritage as a resource, and about tourism, so about economics, so a very limited part, so that someone doesn't get out of the context of the interpretation of this amendment, we're going to mention three important monuments, a monument of gratitude to France, a monument to the winner and a monument to the Unknown Hero. These three monuments have over time grown into symbols, and in a way also the visual identity of Belgrade, which again has to do with tourism. It is very good that the Memorial Corps of this law has growing involvement in cultural heritage, which protects us national identity and unity, which try to develop individuals for their political points, and unfortunately in Serbia you have people who, wherever they see the wound, run to pour salt, wherever they see fire they run to pour oil. It is because of the debt to those who have died for us, and for the children who are waiting for the future, what kind of Serbia we will bring them, that we must be unique, because in these difficult times we do not have the first to large divisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40830	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Comrade Petkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40831	Thank you. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regulations concerning war memorials have been passed, and we will agree, 40 years ago, and since then, we will agree, many changes, as far as territory, economy and society are concerned. The three countries have ceased to exist, as well as certain institutions that have dealt with it. This led to general confusion especially when it comes to jurisdiction, hence the bill on war memorials is of paramount importance, because it solves all the tasks we faced when it comes to protection in this area. On the other hand, there has been a single regulation so far, but its area has been regulated by three different laws, as well as a number of bilateral agreements. The draft Law on War Memorials is a codification of all applicable regulations and thus makes a significant contribution to the more efficient functioning of the state administration in this area. What I would especially point out is a legal solution regarding the records. War memorials in the Republic of Serbia and Serbia abroad, as well as foreign memorials located in our country's territory, are scheduled to keep a single record. The record is run by the ministry, as well as the local self-government unit as a cultural monument protection facility, and is kept permanently. One of the examples I would like to list the Belgrade Institute for the Protection of Monuments where it conducted a 3D laser scan of monuments for reasons of forming a material base for the needs of reconstruction or cases of possible damage. Given the importance of war memorials as a significant element of national identity, but the importance as a proposal for laws that bring about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and digitalisation, I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted already in Article 1. A bill on war memorials. This is achieved by the amendment proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40832	"Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40833	Thank you. The preservation of the truthfulness of historical important moments and the transfer to future generations are indeed one of the key points, not only for the preservation of national identity but also for the introduction of the world to Serbian history. Serbia is a country that has suffered great sacrifices for centuries and has been through many wars. Through generations, the experiences we have survived are passed on, for on our shoulders we have suffered injustice, hatred, and persecution. And today we are struggling to preserve our integrity despite the fact that it is desperately trying to hide the truth of how many people have lost their lives in Kosovo, around 1,300 churches, monasteries and the legacy of the Serb people is here. How defiled is our church? There isn't a single whole monument in the graves of our heroes, but no matter what someone tries to seal our history by hiding behind the backs of the great forces, we won't let that happen, because history cannot be erased. Serbia has a large number of monuments and memorial complexes in its territory that mark sites of suffering and significant battles. That is why the development of memorial tourism is extremely important and, apart from national importance, we see it as an economic opportunity. Memory tourism can be a lucrative business with significant incomes, and this can significantly affect the economic development and growth of local self-government units and improve the quality and standard of life of citizens. The data tells us that in the first eight months of 2017 there were more than a million tourists in Serbia, which is 19% growth compared to 2016. The development of social networks has one of the biggest roles, so the interest of foreign tourists is on the rise, and Serbia has something to offer, because our history is rich in this segment. A large number of memorial complexes such as Kadinjaca, Šumice, the Memorial of the ossuaries in Lazarevec and Cera and many others should, in addition to education of future generations of primo and other dimensions where, through the transfer of our history and the rise of our country's reputation, enable tourism to develop as important branches of economy, and thus contribute to financial stability in the country, as is my amendment's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40834	Thank you. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Stojljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40835	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted an amendment to Article 1 because of the importance Serbia had in winning over fascism and Nazism. Our obligation is to those who have given their lives both for the defense of our country and for the freedom to, above all, point more to our history, to protect our memorial complexes and to speak with more attention to our younger generations of our past. So what is very important, we must point to our anti-fascist tradition and heroism, and the goal is to bring as many tourists to this place as possible, developing in Serbia and cultural tourism. I would mention the "Kadinjača" Memorial Complex, a very important memorial complex, primarily the synonym of our free spirit, in which around 10 million dinars have been invested over the past two years, primarily for the reconstruction of decorative and functional lighting, and then for the restoration of the roof, the "Kadinjača" Memorial in which about 6 million dinars were invested. My great pleasure, and all of us, of course, which is the mention of "Kadinjača", that is, this complex is re-introduced into a student field trip program and a great support for all directors and teachers to make a lot more bills to make other memorial complexes become part of student excursions. What is very important is that these memorial complexes also become tourist complexes, both because our goal is to preserve our history and to provide funds so that these memory complexes can be maintained in the future, because it's really big money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40836	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40837	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, first of all, I welcome this law, because it brings about the preservation of cultural identity, the care and preservation of traditions, and I hope it will raise awareness of the importance of the preservation of the markings that marked the death of our people. The history of the Serbian people has marked many casualties, and we must bear a dignified memory of all our ancestors who have given their lives for our country. The President of the Republic introduced a practice of marking important historic dates in Serbia and I am proud that, after a long time, we honor the victims, remembering all the horrors that our people have been going through. History needs to be remembered, history needs to be convinced, but that doesn't mean that history needs to live. It is necessary to strike a balance between the past and the future, respect and preserve all memories, punish those who destroy them, and also seek stability and peace, so that the suffering never happens again. That's why peace and stability policy is more important than the feelings of anger and anger that we often feel when we analyze our history. We are a brave people, and we have shown it many times, but we must no longer bear sacrifices, but we must strive to keep the years ahead calm, stable, and to develop economically as quickly as possible, because that is the only thing that future generations will be grateful for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40838	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40839	I thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, when we talk about the laws governing the area of war memorials, we should first and foremost stress that they were brought 40 years ago and that the main objective of this bill is to define jurisdiction, strengthen responsibility and efficiency of local self-government units, as well as other institutions and individuals and create the necessary conditions for the protection of cultural heritage, related to wartimes. The submission of this amendment further defines the law contained, since, in addition to the fact that this law regulates the issue of importance for protection, regular maintenance, investment maintenance, editing, removal and financing of war memorials, the keeping of prescribed records has been established, as well as other issues of importance for war memorials in the Republic of Serbia and abroad, it should be stressed that this bill must also affect the development of the Republic of Serbia, especially better access to economic resources. This orderly system will contribute to improving respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, traditions, as well as improving the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia. The organised war memorials as an important segment of Serbia's cultural heritage will become part of a quality and attractive tourist offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40840	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people of Lyubish the Lakatosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40841	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, the War Memorial Act defines all issues that are important for maintaining, editing, protecting or removing, and financing the maintenance and arrangements of war memorials and keeping records for war memorials both in the Republic of Serbia and abroad. This bill defines the responsibility of the local self-government unit and the ministry responsible for the care of Serbia's tradition of free wars in the field of war memorial protection, i.e. to define the jurisdiction to finance regular maintenance and financing of investment maintenance. The bill's solution will affect all state authorities, institutions that have provided technical support so far, to the realization of arrangements, resolutions, reconstructions and maintenance of war memorials, but it also obliges our education system. School plans and programmes must adapt to the obligation to deal more with matters of tradition, which, apart from language, letter, history and customs, is of particular importance. It is very important to provide through the education system the necessary level of knowledge about historical and real facts, related to our people, to our cultural heritage, related to war periods, and hence the dignified memory of the dead in many war events, which occurred on the premises of our country, and also on the premises of many other states where war memorials exist. The amendment that I have submitted further defines Article 1. War memorial laws. In the voting day, SNS MPs will support this law, as well as other proposed laws that are on the agenda, and in particular I would like to highlight and praise the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which encourages population policy and which primarily refers to the incentive of birth, which will also affect the improvement of demographic image, which is currently devastating, which will certainly reduce negative natural growth. The financial support of the family with children, which is determined by this law, is assigned to improve the material position of families with children, suggesting that the Government of the Republic of Serbia behaves responsibly and takes care of families that form the basis of each society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40842	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40843	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, gentlemen of Ministers, there are very important laws on the agenda, which regulate the problems of the past, but also laws that provide for a better and safer future. When I say this, I mean first of all the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family, on a legal regulation that sets out incentives for mothers to give birth and thus preserve the nation, which is the primary objective of all of us. I am very glad that this law has seen the light of day, for it further strengthens mothers to have a third and fourth child. The Law on War Memorials that regulates issues of importance for protection, regulation and maintenance is of particular importance primarily for future generations, but the elderly also commits us to create the necessary conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage, related to wartimes. As a member of the national minority, I would especially like to emphasise that it is a system that protects national and religious feelings, which is the goal of every democratic state. That the state of Serbia is such a country is also talking about the fact with which and how much attention is being paid to this issue, and this time also stresses the need to improve respect for fundamental human rights. No one for 40 years has had the courage to adapt Serbia's needs and regulate this area. Some did not want to, and some did not want to, and some did not have to, because this law explicitly prohibits the editing of war memorials, which do not correspond with historical and real facts, insults general and state interests, insults national, religious feelings and public morality. Dear People's MPs, Serbia is a completely different country than the one where the previous or former regime was nothing important and nothing so sacred, up to the issue of its survival, let alone the passing of such significant laws for its future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40844	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jancic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40845	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers, are before us a law on war memorials, proposed with the aim of regulating and harmonising this area with the established principles of modern civil society, with respect for the highest degree of human rights. It regulates a system that will bring uniform application to units of local self-government that will contribute, as I have already said, to improving respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, traditions and improving the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia. The organised war memorials as an important segment of Serbia's overall cultural heritage will become part of a more quality and attractive tourist offer, contributing to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and its local self-government. This law clearly defines the responsibilities of local self-government, strengthens responsibilities in preserving and protecting our cultural heritage related to wartimes, which is our obligation, which we must pay special attention to in the protection, arrangement and maintenance of war memorials. The attitude towards cultural and historical heritage and war memorials, which the governments of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, express from 2012 to today, gives us the belief that we will succeed on the path of the overall renaissance, as well as at raising the feelings of patriotism and pride in the light of the tradition of the Liberation Wars, which the Serbian people did not by their own free will through history. Many examples have been that previous regimes have not responded, have even approved the arrangement of war memorials that insult general and state interests, national and religious feelings, have also tolerated those raised by those who represented fascist, Nazi, separatist ideas, and worst of all, have also been raised by those who were associates of aggressors and occupiers. The previous regimes didn't even think of this law as necessary, especially for the protection of existing war memorials. Their care has been expressed here to the extreme. This is why we found the site of death in the municipality of Novi Knezevac and the wider spatial continent in 2016 abandoned and impoverished, without written or other markings, with destroyed trails and stolen fences. The provisions of this law will be fully implemented, especially when it comes to removing the monument-marks that offend national and religious feelings and, unfortunately, there are other local self-governments, not only in the New Duke. They're not always the most important material values. Positive effects can also be measured by immaterial values, such as the state's concern and the dignified memory of the dead through the protection of war memorials and our cultural heritage, related to wartimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40846	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Repac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40847	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome Mr. Minister and fellow Members of Parliament. Today we're talking about the War Memorial Act. 20 years ago, a journalist said -- Serbia is a country where war never ends. The Serbs' sufferings are enormous, from their arrival in the 7th century to these spaces to today's day. There's a lot to talk about, but is it possible to say everything? Today we're talking about war memorials. This law specifies the duties of local self-government units related to the regular maintenance of war memorials on their territory. This law defines responsibility, competence, efficiency of units of local self-government, individuals and other institutions. The law creates conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage related to wartimes. We must cultivate tradition because of future generations, because besides language, customs, belief in history, cultural heritage is one of the identification codes of each nation. The most important thing is that each and every one of us realizes that change starts from individual to individual. The first thing we need to learn is that it's possible to change the world, and then we got a president who believed that change is possible and said that Serbia has to go back into the world and want to understand it, even when the great powers don't agree with it or we agree with them. The imperative was peace, stability and economic progress and so began our recovery. With the help of the government of Serbia and the province government in Subotica, projects that are important to our citizens are realised, as only a healthy nation is going forward and making rapid recovery and restoration of war marks. The Office for Public Investment of the Republic of Serbia is financing the reconstruction and improvement of public-purpose facilities in the field of education, social protection and health. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2017 envisions a complete reconstruction of the General Hospital. It is the most significant investment in the area of health care for Saturday. There's going to be a total reconstruction of the hospital. We were able to secure the standard of having an angel hall of 300 thousand inhabitants. Unlike democratic governments, when the AP Vojvodina had only one hall per 2 million inhabitants, the other 20 angel halls were located on Belgrade and Serbia's territory. It was also the concern of the democratic government of Vojvodina for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40848	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, Serbia will never forget its victims, since the start of the statehood of 1804th year, during its modern history, Serbia has waged liberating wars, so there is an obligation to respect the tradition of free wars to show respect for famous ancestors. By passing this law, for the first time, this area is regulated in a comprehensive manner. The codification of the currently applicable regulations in the matter of the protection of war memorials and the harmonisation of applicable regulations is being carried out, in order to make the state administration more effective in the process of protecting regular investment maintenance and arrangements of war memorials. A comprehensive record and arrangement of war memorials in the country and abroad is being conducted by members of foreign armed forces in the Republic of Serbia and death records, starting from World War I. Thanks to the fiscal discipline conducted by the previous government and the continued attracting of investments, bringing foreign investors, opening new jobs, reducing the share of public debt in GDP are funds for the restoration of military memorials, their cleaning and maintenance. In this way, it is possible to honor each military memorial in a dignified manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40850	National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Collegine Compirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40851	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers, fellow MPs, regulations governing the area of war memorials were passed 40 years ago, so this government discovered the need, as it works in modern times with all the laws to pass one such law on war memorials. The proposal for this Law on War Memorials aims to codify the rules currently in force from the matter of the protection of war memorials and the harmonisation of applicable regulations in order to make the state administration more effective in the process of protecting the regular maintenance, editing and removal of war memorials, to keep records of all war memorials in the country and abroad, and to determine a clear competence in the financing of the investment maintenance of war memorials. The law creates the necessary conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage related to war periods, arranged and maintained by the war memorials of tradition for future generations, because in addition to language, letter, history, customs and belief and immovable culture, cultural heritage is one of the identified aspects of the nation. The basic objective of the War Memorial Bill is to define more clearly the jurisdiction, strengthening responsibility, efficiency of local self-government and creating the necessary conditions for the protection of cultural heritage related to wartimes. A system like this will bring improvement, respect for human rights, national, religious feelings, traditions, as well as the improvement of tourism Serbia. By regulating war memorials, as an important segment of cultural heritage, it will become part of Serbia's more quality and attractive political offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40852	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40853	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 1. The draft law adds paragraph 2 to further define the content of the law. The main objectives of the law are also a clear definition of competence and strengthening the responsibility of units of local self-government, as well as of other institutions and individuals. This bill creates the necessary conditions for the protection of the cultural heritage related to wartimes. The law regulates issues related to regular maintenance, investment maintenance, maintenance financing and arrangements and the removal of war memorials, as well as the establishment and keeping of prescribed records. The organised war memorials as an important segment of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia will become part of the quality and attractive tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia. Since the laws that regulate this area were passed 40 years ago, this bill will certainly affect the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, but also the achievement of social equality, so that my amendment goes in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40854	National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40855	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the bill. In particular, to put an accent on underdeveloped areas, in underdeveloped areas, in areas from which many brave people come, in areas where there have been and there will be people who have fought for this country, protected this country, in which there are many monuments that we must preserve. This law gives us this opportunity and gives us these people who created for our country great importance. In particular, I will now say the mention of the skeleton that was made in Srlig in the village of Grbače, backwards, last year has been marked 100 years since that event. Otherwise, on March 17, 1917, Bulgarians killed 63 patriots from the village, where they were women and children. It was all done just because our men from Svrlig, the purposeful end, led by Bogoljub Miletic, the man who organized it, with the people of Sokobanja, freed Svrljig. In revenge, the Bulgarians did it. We honored these people last year 100 years from this event and thus showed that we are thinking about our people who have fought and created this country. One more thing, very important, as far as the following laws are concerned, is that our government, our President, Mr. Vukic, we have a law that gives support to women to give birth, through childbirth, to provide stimulation for newborn children at certain financial levels. I have submitted one amendment to which I wish to support this law, but let us give even more support to women who are born in the country that these women who are born in the country provide between 20 and 50% more compensation because in those villages in southeastern Serbia it is very difficult and in other parts of Serbia. Once again, as an USS MP, selected from the SNS list, I call on all fellow Members to support this amendment and the next amendment, because I think we support the development of the Republic of Serbia with the support of undeveloped areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40856	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bakery, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40857	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, here, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your Ministry here, there was a law that would further and re-arrange one area that was last edited in 1976. It took 40 years to reopen this topic. So, from SFRY to today, in these areas, where this law was before parliament, to this day, three new states formed in these areas, two of them shut down. But no matter what those states were called, it was always about the same people, about the same history, the same tradition, it was always about the same lives, the same sacrifices that were given to the next generations to have their own country, no matter what they were going to call it. Thanks to this law, faith is regaining that Serbia will not yield to pressure to give up its history and to forget its memories. If someone wants to destroy one country, one nation, is not only enough to subdue it, but also needs to change its traditional values, values such as the desire for unity and belonging, values such as the desire for patriotism, values that are not family, historical and spiritual, but are based on some material principles. Current globalism denies the history of small nations. By denying history, she tries to erase them, and on the other hand, tries to enhance and romanticize the history of the great nations now. With this law, Serbia is returning to its history and its tradition. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS, our coalition partners, all those who have a good will to vote for this law, will thus show respect for all those who gave their lives so that today we can sit here peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40858	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40859	The budget separates 26,151,730 dinars for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 17 memorials in the country and 10 million dinars for maintaining foreign memorials. I would point out how important it is to raise awareness of the protection of the memorials after decades of reckless relations with what represents a monument to our ancestors and our history, which is such that we can be proud. The law, among other things, provided for the education of councils to cultivate the traditions of liberation wars to raise new, edit and remove certain war memorials, consisting of top experts, and particularly historians. I am saying this because the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Labour is in line with the promised to behave domestically and in line with the efficiency and effectiveness of the work. The city municipality of Mladenovac is, for example, designed a 12 million dinar skeleton project containing bones over 800 fighters of the Cosmajsko-Varovnik battle in World War I. The last renovation was in 1985, and citizens must know that in 2012, we inherited an extremely derelict state, where no care was taken of the living, let alone the victims. As soon as the monument is completed, it will be included in the offer of the tourist organization Mladenvec, next to the memorial of the church and numerous monasteries in our surroundings. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in order to highlight the importance of war memorials and the heroic suffering for the restoration of the country, we can also use it for the growth of the economy and economic indicators. If they come up with traces of history, because we have something to show the world and the more they know our history, the more they'll appreciate us. There was nothing sacred to the ancients, nor was it that we preserved our land thanks to our ancestors. When respect for ancestors and history is lost, generations are lost. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40860	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40861	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the appropriate attitude towards the memorials certainly involves a certain financial source that will allow this relationship to appear in a decent manner and in practice and is clearly spoken of by Article 1. It's a bill of law. So when you talk about what's being regulated by this law, there's a black on white standing and financing maintenance. In order for this to be possible, first of all, the situation in the budget, the state budget, but also in the budget relating directly to those units of local self-government that also have a touch point with this law, is good. Today it's a reality. Thus, such a situation has indeed been achieved de facto, among other things, and all those efforts to secure financial discipline, all those efforts to stabilise the state of public finances. At a recently concluded meeting that our government had with IMF representatives, these facts have been confirmed once more. So that today's deficit in Serbia has a 4-5-fold lower value than what is considered a good standard in regulated European countries and that public debt is actually being reduced and that it will be reduced below 50%, and today it is already below what is again a European standard established in Mastricht and that we are doing positive business as a country for the third year in a row, if that can be called, but that we have surplus compared to all the planned deficits and that we are starting our businesses and production in such a way as we did a few days ago in Panchev, when another production plant was opened, ninety and some only in the previous three or four years. All this was pointed out in their discussions today, the SNS MPs were absolutely right, of course, in each of their comments and I join them at this time. This is what I'm saying, among other things, and because the few representatives of the yellow company in the National Assembly tried to dissuade and disdain our discussions, they tried to say that there was something unworthy in them. Each, but literally every discussion on this side of the hall was constructive, it was affirmative, it was full of piety for all those people who gave their lives to the Republic of Serbia, but according to all the results achieved and what we can today be proud of in Serbia. The fact that they've given up since the debate, and it's seen from these empty benches, right there on the other side of the hall, where yellow company members sat in the morning, is actually saying absolutely everything about who wants to be positive here, who wants to be constructive here and who wants to keep an eye on how to work and speak with dignity in the National Assembly. These empty benches of witnesses, among other things, what Dragan Gilas bought, he bought one big nothing. And as far as we're concerned, we're gonna keep pulling all those good... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40862	Since the electronic system isn't working, I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Due to technical problems, I'm giving a break of 10 minutes and we're going to continue at 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40865	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, MPs, remembering our dead warriors for our country's freedom, we receive a message not only for the present, but for the future, for our new generations. The local government of Sokobanja was also managed by this foreign exchange. One of the first projects financed from the budget of local self-government, by coming to power in 2016, is the publication of the book of Sokobanjcan, Golub Radovanovic, which published a book titled "Memorys and Memories from Sokobanje". The book contains a system list and a list of all monuments, monuments, records, memorial bells, which will certainly facilitate local self-government work to be completed by 30 November, i.e. to submit the report to the restoring and competent ministry for the recording of war memorials. On the territory of the municipality of Sokobanja of 26 local communities, 21 has a monument intended for fallen warriors in the Balkan wars and the First World War. Certainly, the central site takes up a monument in the center of Sokobanje, it is not known exactly when it is erected, but it contains over 200 names of the dead warriors in the Balkan wars and the First World War. A dozen days ago, the local government reparated the carved names that faded over time. This monument is certainly part of the tourist offer of Sokobanja and, of course, the cultural and historical heritage of our municipality. There's not a single tourist who left Sokobanja without noticing this monument. Of course, we're going to argue that we're investing more and more in preserving our monuments and our cultural and historical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40866	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Matić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40867	Thank you. My amendment aims to improve the law itself if it is accepted by the promoter or if it is not accepted, at least to contribute to the quality of the War Memorial Act itself in a quality debate. I'll briefly say about places in the Kocelev municipality, which I'm from, which mark certain war historical events. There were already words here about Cer, the Battle of Cer, the Memorial complex at Cer, but when the Cerska Battle is mentioned, you can not only look at a narrow space of Cera itself, but it is one wide space that was simply covered by the Battle of Cer. So, part of Koceljev municipality, and the special place of Draginja, the former Great Bosniak, was an important place for the Cerska Battle. There was also a hospital, the acceptance of the wounded, and what may be most important was the commanding place of the Battle of Cerska, where Duke Stepanović commanded the Battle of Cersko and from where, besides our heroes and leadership and command, we practically won the Battle of Cerva. When I mention Draginja, I would say that the horsemen, when they went to battle at Mishar, were congratulated on the mountain of Dizarevac in Draginj, that under the command of Pop Luka Lazarevic, they went into battle against Misar and in the absence of the battle in Mishar decided the battle we won and which practically means a great deal. Pop Luka Lazarevic is practically from Svileuve. We have in Belgrade Pop Luka Street and I think that when Pop Luka Street is mentioned, little is known from Pop Luka Lazarevic by whom that street was named and we all need to work to know more and find out about the father of Luka Lazarevic, who commanded one part of our army to fight on Mishar. I would mention the battle in Svileuva, which was also commanded by Uncle Luke Lazarevic, Ranko, whom we also received. As for World War II, we have plenty of places and events that deserve full attention from ourselves, and we are obliged to maintain these places and to inherit tradition and these wars. What may deserve now, as the freshest, more attention is the latest developments, the aggression of the NATO Pact in 1999 on Serbia. We have to pay special attention to mark it, to preserve our memories, because in history it has never happened that such a force comes upon a small but proud Serbia. Surely in the municipality of Koceljev existing spaces, war memorials are not maintained exactly in an adequate way, and this law itself contributes to more attention in the future, to maintain war memorials, to maintain tradition, something that we, our ancestors, have contributed to, something that is part of our history, which reminds us of that part of our history, that brings us forward to better, stronger, better quality development, and economical, so I hope that by law itself and we are going to contribute to maintaining the memorials in an appropriate and appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40868	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40869	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us one of the very important laws and, as we have heard in the previous debate, the aim of this law is to codify the current rules of matter and protect war memorials and comply with the applicable regulations. On this occasion, I wanted to add that I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Law, because I believe that by adding Article 2 to further define the contents of this law, but this occasion I would like to point out one very important thing, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also local self-government, is concerned not only about the already set monuments, but also about setting up new monuments, so this time I would like to stress and say that on Vidovdan in the town where I come from, that is the town of Kruševac, will be set up a monument to Princess Milici, which has already been forgotten by some previous authorities for six centuries. Namely, on the initiative of Mr. Bratislav Gasic, a meeting was held a few months ago with businessmen from the Rasin district and it was agreed to place a monument to Princess Milic in the square of Despot Stefan in Krusevec, near Lazar's town. What is most important, the monument will be built, it is actually being built, it will be opened in two days, from donor funds, which means that the owners of the Rasin County have recognized the responsible policy, first of all the SNS and, through one contribution, there will be the raising and setting up of the monument to Princess Milic, and for her we know what her wisdom is and how determined it is after the death of Prince Lazarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40870	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Birmanevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40871	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is indeed a law on war memorials that has been waiting for 40 years in Serbia and has finally come to the agenda of this National Assembly, which shows that there are no unresolved issues for this government and this National Assembly and there are no unresolved problems. Anything that arises as a problem, the government recognizes, shapes it as a law, and the National Assembly makes its contribution to making the law even better, even better. I have just submitted to the Law on War Memorial an amendment relating to regional integration and regional development, and I think that this law is also an opportunity for regional integration and regional development, which is part of all our laws, above all, to be recognised in some of the following, or future projects. What I want to show, i.e. to inform the citizens and Sapca, but of course, Serbia, is that in its conclusion of 19 October 2017, the Government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision on the establishment of the company "Memory complex for the preservation of cultural historical values and sustainable development of Cera" d.o.o. Šabac, short for "Memory complex Cer". I stress d.o.o. It's a sabbatical. Indeed this is, I often use it, but this time it is a real example for believe it or not, a complex located on the Cer Mountain, which has already been officially signed and certified by the court notary, and already on 17.11.2017, and registered as an official company, a public company. The founders are the Republic of Serbia, the town of Loznica, the municipalities of Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Vladimirovac, Koceljevo and Bogatic. The only municipality and the only town from the Machuvan district that didn't want to participate, to take part in the construction of this monument, a very literally memorial complex, is the town of Sabac. And I'm just coming from the town of Sapca and the idea of this project is ten years old and the chaplains have kept trying to make it known to some government and some people as a real opportunity to repay ourselves in the right way and heroes of the First World War, but also heroes from all the wars that Serbia has waged. This complex envisions building a monument that will be in the form of a cross, a height of between 55 and 60 meters and will be visible, of course, not only in a figurative sense, but also in every other sense, a patriotic and meaningful sense that will bring back at least one part of the dignity that our enemies are trying to take away from us. Why do I mention that the Sabbath didn't take part in this? I will ask this question, here and publicly to Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic and Parliament Speaker Nemanja Pajic – when the anniversary of the Misar Battle is held, they cannot approach the monument, the monument to the victims of the Liberations of Sapac, too, and when a memorial complex is to be built on Cera, they do not want to take part in it, and the initiative has started from Capca. I mention the complex and the central monument will be located right on the territory that belongs to the town of Sabac. On the other hand, they face the fact that at the same time they do not want to participate in building a memorial complex, that they go to meetings in the municipality of Pec, to sit and talk under the flag of the non-recognizable and non-existent state of Kosovo, under the flag of Albania, and at the same time they do not want to participate in the construction of the memorial complex. Independently, this very memorial complex will be a great and very serious opportunity, it is the most important project Serbia has at this time. The memorial complex at one of the peaks of Cera, consisting of a memorial of the markings, will certainly be an opportunity for both Jadar and Cer and Pocerina and Tamnava and the entire region to be a tourist attraction. There are large projects and have a future, but also projects that must and indeed have the support of the government, i.e. the support of the Republic of Serbia. I did not say, when the company was founded, everything was clearly defined, the Republic of Serbia 61% owned by the public enterprise, 39% are the owners of the town of Loznica, the municipality of Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Vladimirci, Koceljeva and Bogatic. This is what I said about pride and pride for everyone in Šapco, of course, and for everyone in Serbia, Cer will finally get the complex he deserves, and those who do not want to participate in it should serve them fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40872	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there have been words here by some parliamentary groups, a little hypocritical and funny, to answer the question in which the Liberation Wars at the end of the 20th century Serbia participated, what wars we received, and who were the people who participated in those wars? On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to thank both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for raising on 29 September last year a monument to the late Major JNA Milan Tepic, otherwise the last folk hero of the Socialist Yugoslavia, and the first, that is, what is less known, the folk hero of Republika Srpska. Major Milan Tepic was born in Kozarska Dubica, who was attacked by Croatian armed, or paramilitary formations in September 1991 at the JNA barracks in Bjelovar, he and his soldiers retired to the Bedenik military warehouse, near the town of Bjelovar, for almost a month with his soldiers resisted violent attacks, so-called. The People's Guard Assembly, and the last days of his life he's really spent as a great hero, and we can freely say that he's the new Stevan Siljelic. When it was clear that the military warehouse would fall into the hands of Croatian paramilitary formations, that there was simply no more ammunition used by members of JNA, he told those naked boys who served at the time in JNA, otherwise the only legal military force in Croatia in September 1991, to get out into safe positions, he remained alone in the military warehouse and detonated that military warehouse. He flew into the air, and he and the entire murderous means that were in that military warehouse and wouldn't let that military warehouse fall into the hands of the so-called. The National Guard Assembly. That was a really heroic act. He then spoke those days of famous words, which we also today need to remember. I say this primarily because of those who think it was pointless, that we have waged pointless wars, that it is Milosevic's fault, that it is all Serbia, who are completely banalising and simplifying modern Serbian history. The hero Milan Tepic then said – one person gives the word, she stays or is trampled, I gave the word that I will defend this country if it is difficult for her. He did so on 29 September 1991, he blew himself up, thus showing that Serbian heroism and Serbian heroism have no end, and showed that even at the end of the 20th century, Siljelici is born, and I believe that the Serbian people of Sidelic still have a day today. In the follow-up to my presentation, I will list, by other amendments, all the other monuments that have been raised by the SNS since 2012, to this day. From that display, I think that very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, will be able to see that, through the rise of these monuments, Serbia honors all those who fought for freedom of Serbia and for the freedom of the Serbian people, regardless of their ideological features and regardless of their ideological beliefs, and to honor and acknowledge all foreign statesmen who were in difficult times with Serbia and with the Serbian people. We have to cultivate these traditions further, and for this reason, in the day of voting we will really, with all our heart, calm souls and with the memory of all those killed for the freedom of Serbia and the Serbian people, vote in favour of the bill, and of course we will vote in favour of our amendments, as we have done at all previous sessions, because we think that we are both at the same job and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we are MPs of the ruling coalition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that our country is successful, advanced, developed, that it develops in peace and that we always remember all those who have given our lives defending Serbia's freedom and defending the freedom of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40874	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP, Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40875	For the truth, I must say, to add, that with Major Tepic, he was a soldier Stojadin Mirkovic, from the village of Leskovica near Valev. He was in the transporter. Major Tepic asked him to leave, but he did not want to do so, and he died there. Valjevo, before elementary school, an eight-year school in Leskovici, stood his monument and called the town Valjevo a street called Stojadin Mirkovic. That's it, for the truth's sake.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40876	Thank you. By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40877	Ladies and gentlemen, today we present a series of concrete examples that, any one of us, associate with the need to pass this law and the existence of war memorials. This really says how much the whole of Serbia was missing, although most of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are talking about it today. Of course, there are many examples, there are many days that could be marked. Here, today, for example, in 1992, Serbian refugees arrived in the village of Petrovo, near Ozren, under Ozren, from Zenica, after a few days of walking, while some were dying. There's nowhere to go, and there's a question of whether there'll ever be any markings, any memorials, on their victims. Also, today, for example, in 1999, the Orthodox Church in the Great River was burned down, while the house of the Serb Momcila Blatić was burned down in Pristina. So there's no day when we haven't had anything that we should mark in one way or another. Today, as we discuss this really important and interesting topic here, our delegation is at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. An hour ago, our colleague Aleksandar Seselj, there asked Croatian Foreign Minister Marija Bulić Pejcinovic, and asked how they were not ashamed that those in Croatia, as a national holiday, were marking the day when the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman from Republika Srpska, expelled or killed more than half a million Serbs? So that's, let's say, the same day that we're discussing here that such a message was sent by our delegation, that is, Alexander Seselj, also referred to the Council of Europe and everyone who listened there. This is indeed the task of the MPs, who go to represent the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly, somewhere in the white world. That's what it takes, of course, not as Meho Omerovic, to steal, to hide, but it's actually the task of every MP. We hope and hope that in the coming days there will be time and opportunity for our fellow Members in Strasbourg to continue speaking this way. As for the amendments that are now on the agenda, certainly that amendment will not be accepted, that is what the Government has told us, as well as the other amendments, which all the MPs have submitted. It may not be that important, but it really is important that we have through these amendments, and we think differently from colleagues who have objections to such amendments, when some other laws are involved, and we have often intervened, but we think it's a good thing that we have as many amendments as possible today and that the more we speak on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40878	Thank you. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janošević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40879	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected fellow citizens, 73 years after World War II, we still have a problem with maintenance and the state of the NOB monuments. I don't think it's enough to go out just in front of those monuments on October 2nd, July 7th, as well as May 9th, to pass the weddings, remember those victims and get out of there. It is necessary to honor the people who have fought and given their lives against the evil of the modern age. We have a situation that a large number of monuments, both in cities and in villages, are beheaded, devastated, destroyed. The town of Zrenjanin recently executed a monument in the city centre, which is dedicated to fallen fighters from the wars of the 1990s, which is the most grateful supporters, their friends, as well as members of their families, and of course it is necessary to do so in the future. It is our duty to devote time and attention to these monuments that have given life to our country. We must treat antifascism as antifascism deserves. What I must mention is that members of the SNS, or SNS committees from Zrenjanin, have launched an initiative to restore the Chenti monument to the fallen fighters, to which attention is paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40880	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Fellow Jevtović Vukojičić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40881	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the bill on war memorials for the purpose has a clear message that it sends to citizens and to all of us, and this message is that heroes must never be forgotten, and that citizens should be proud of the liberating tradition of our ancestors and of the liberation wars that Serbia has waged. Otherwise, always on the side of antifascism and always on the side of the victory forces. I would also like to point out that we have heard many criticisms this morning and instead of being ashamed because, for 12 years, the government of the "yellow company" failed to even establish records of the dead and the injured in previous wars, they made objections to MPs, above all SNS, who submitted amendments to the senses, which are submitted to the amendments in order to improve, progress and development and finally edit war memorials, as well as the construction of new war memorials that are also the first time envisaged by this law. We didn't have that procedure planned before either. Of course, apart from the fighters who participated in the Liberation Wars, these wars also led to military invalids, many fighters gave their lives for our freedom and, of course, their families remained behind them. What I would particularly like to stress is that on 14 June 2018, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic received the Association of Military Disabilities to discuss with them the problems they face and how to solve these problems. I would also like to point out that, except with full responsibility and due attention, the Minister of Interior and Minister of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs and Minister of Finance and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and representatives of the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure were present at the meeting, all in order to coordinate the response and coordinated action on the problem of wartime people with disabilities. Of course, the meeting also set out the monthly coordination and active involvement of the Association of Military Disabilities in the roof law, which should first and foremost meet their needs and meet what they fought for, and some of them give their lives. Serbia is stepping largely into the future, but it does not forget its past either. Of course, the SNS in the voting day will vote for the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40882	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40883	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted this amendment to Article 1. A bill on war memorials. Article 1 lays down the subject matter of the bill, with groups of relations to be regulated and reads: "This law regulates issues of importance for protection, regular maintenance, investment maintenance, regulation, financing of maintenance and improvement of war memorials, establishment and keeping of prescribed records, as well as other issues of importance for war memorials in Serbia and abroad." In particular, I would point out a number of provisions of this law laying down the duties of units of local self-government for the regular maintenance of war memorials in their territory and clearly define the competencies of the Republic and the competence of local self-government with regard to the financing of regular maintenance of war memorials. The local self-government of the Great Plan Municipality paid full attention to the preservation and maintenance of war memorials, as well as to the preservation of the tradition of the Liberation Wars. I will take this opportunity to list some war memorials that are located in the territory of the Municipality of the Great Plan and about which local self-government tends and maintains them. In every village of the Municipality of the Great Plan there are war memorials raised in honor of fallen fighters, covering the period of wars from 1912 to 1918, the Balkan and First World War, as well as monuments to fighters I am burning in World War II. In the Old Village, which was named Stara Adzibegovac by World War II, there is a monument in the port of the village church, and it was erected by King Aleksandar First Karadjordjevic in 1933. The monument began marking and raising the memorials in the territory of the Municipality of the Great Plan. It should be pointed out that the monument lists 388 fallen fighters from the Old Village in the 1912 Liberation Wars. - 1918. That small town of the Great Plan municipality gave more than a third of the male population in those wars. There is also a military cemetery in the Old Village, where 81 men of the Yugoslav Royal Army of the famous 18th Regiment were buried, which did not retreat in the Markovac, Stari and Novi Village region, on April 12th 1941, he died heroically in conflict with the superior German army. After World War II, a monument was erected in the center of Markovac by fallen World War II fighters. There are many more monuments in the territory of the Great Plan municipality to the fallen fighters in World War I and II, but I will talk about it in the presentation of the other amendments. In voting day, I will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40884	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. My colleague Mrdaković Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40885	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Law on War Memorials will contribute to establishing the necessary conditions for the protection of the cultural heritage related to wartimes. War memorials are a permanent witness to Serbia's perilous and free history. The law preserves the memory of victims who were killed by an enemy hand, but also preserves the memory of historical events or personality whose function was a turning point during a concrete period. The law will regulate matter relating to protection, maintenance, regulation, but also the removal of war memorials, compliance with other positive regulations, the introduction of procedures and records. Serbia has always waged defensive and liberating wars. We were never aggressors and didn't wage conquest wars. We have more than 6,000 war memorials, and 650 of them in 44 countries of the world, which testify to the death of our army and our people. Some of these places are marked, let them wait to get their mark, so that future generations know that Serbia was created and that Serbia was defended. The rich history and constant struggle for freedom left in Nis, throughout Serbia, but also beyond the borders of our country valuable cultural signs and historical monuments. The obligation of state and society and all of us is to take good care of war memorials, both in Serbia and beyond the borders of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40886	Thank you, colleague Mrdaković Todorovic. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40887	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, Serbia has 600 monuments and memorials in the country and abroad. We have a warmark in 45 countries, from North Africa to North Europe. The regulations governing this area were passed 40 years ago. Many changes occurred during that time period, three countries ceased to exist, and Serbia today has emerged. That's why the new law has to be passed. The new legal solution sets out the responsibilities of local self-government units related to the regular maintenance of war memorials in their territory, i.e. clearly defining the responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia in terms of investment maintenance and local self-government units to finance the country's regular maintenance of war memorials, as well as how to overcome the problem when units of local self-government are unable to ensure the financing of regular maintenance of war memorials that are essential for the cultivation of Serbia's tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. The objectives achieved by the adoption of the Law on War Memorial are to clearly define jurisdiction, strengthen responsibility, rationality and efficiency of local self-government units and other institutions, as well as individuals. The law creates the necessary conditions to protect our cultural heritage related to wartimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40888	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40889	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. A bill on war memorials, which makes up one whole of the amendments, of the four that I submitted to the law. I will read the amendment – that in Article 1, previous colleagues, which is good because of citizens watching the transfer in the afternoon session, have detailed what Article 1 refers to and my amendment is to add Article 2 which reads: "The Law on War Memorials provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the development of the educational system". This discussion of war memorials is quite detailed so far, and all this discussion in fact also marks the appreciation of all these war memorials and all the lives of those fighters who have lost their lives in defense and liberation wars in our history. Because if one law we discussed deserves to be quoted as one Latin sentiment, it is this law – the history of the master vita est, history is a teacher of life. So, in the care of those memories, you can learn a lot. Many colleagues have quoted that by supporting the memorials will represent one segment of attractive tourist offer, and I would say – sad tourist offers, but it is necessary. I come from a city where we need to remind ourselves that besides fighters and victims in combat, this nation has had many civilian casualties, which is Kragujevac, Shumarica. Neither students nor teachers nor workers nor Roma participated in the struggles but were taken to the site. So we have civilian victims, so our history is not, unfortunately, and unfortunately it is because we are at a crossroads of great interest, in that windy Balkans, and there are, in addition to fighting, many civilian victims. Foresters you all know, "The Great School Hour" you all know, students come, buses come, it's true, in one tourist offer. But it is once again an hour of history for those future generations, that these children know through those classes how freedom was created, how they fought to preserve their country. I respect that, but I repeat again, it is a sad tourist offer, but it is a "great school hour" for our rejuvenation. I'll mention that we have a Slovak cemetery in Kragujevac, so we have a cemetery dedicated to foreign soldiers. You were at a special session where Slovak Parliament Speaker thanked Kragujevac, but also the state of Serbia, which takes care of the pitet and maintains the cemetery of foreign dead soldiers who, under the circumstances, were shot in Kragujevac and killed, but from one of the most sublime intentions. Although they came to a foreign country, they gave their lives because they saw where they came from and in which people and in this way sacrificed themselves. This is the right time to bring. It's not just that we have a law that prefixes that was passed by the Serbian Parliament. Because, colleagues have said, the previous laws are from some non-existent country of SFRY and not only because of the need for us to have a law to read – the Law on War Memorials of the Republic of Serbia, but it should be, and it should stand, that since 2000, this government and for this segment have now found time and ways to resolve it in the right way, but what this law does is regulated by many other things that my colleagues have previously talked about. I agree, one MP said here, we need a lot to discuss, because there is no end of the city, some areas in Serbia, where there have been no victims, free, defensive wars, fighters, but also civilians and a lot of caves in some other countries of the former Yugoslavia, where once again civilians of Serbian origin have been killed, and this will be the obligation of this law, to take care of both these places and thus respect history, tradition and respect for both the state and its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40890	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40891	The Honorable Chairman, all these discussions of my colleagues certainly showed that all this has to do with this legal solution, and when it comes to public enterprises, corruption, agriculture, child care, military and police, education and all areas have contributed to the war memorials. If the former regime hadn't devastated Serbia, we could have allocated budgets much earlier for these legal solutions, all those who once robbed and destroyed Serbia's economy and economy, who today have a problem with the president of the Republic and the government taking care of Serbian citizens and fighting for every new job and remembering Serbian victims. The attacks on the president and his family are an attempt not to continue the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and that Serbia is capitulating and deviating from the course under President Vukic's leadership, which is political stability, economic recovery and the modernisation of Serbia. I wanted to point out the unnecessary involvement of police resources, which occurred in the moves of certain opposition leaders who are trying to lead to instability in Serbia -- alleged kidnapping of journalists, a series of false news and brutal attacks on the president's family. Because we have, for example, just one case, alleged abduction of journalists, that over 30 hours of intensive search involving a number of police services, the BIA, the entire security sector apparatus and where it was spent, or that operation cost almost 400 thousand euros. When we count all the resources involved, even in these alleged attempts to block fuel, these false news of water poisoning in Belgrade, these are all the resources used in the police that have to process these cases and all the money that could go into these legal projects, such as today on the agenda, and that we give for everything that is most needed, and also child care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40892	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. He has a word, a People's Messenger, Snow White Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40893	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which adds a new position 2 and which further defines the introductory provisions of Article 2 of this Act. How successful, achieved and turned to the future and future generations depend undoubtedly on how much we will take care of the preservation of tradition, history and war memorials in memory of people who have given their lives for the freedom of the country and their generations. With a bill on war memorials, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been responsible for addressing all the problems of war memorial records, i.e. military graves, individual graves, gravestones, memorial records and sites of victims of fighters, and defining everything needed to treat these places with the utmost respect and responsibility. To preserve and take care of the above, the Council for the Breeding tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars is also being educated to give an opinion on a proposal to edit the war memorial. The protection of war memorials in the Republic of Serbia is being conducted by the competent ministry and units of local self-government according to the place where war memorials are located, as well as by the Ministry of Defence within the military facilities for which it is responsible. It is important that when a war memorial is located outside the public cemetery or space in the property of the Republic of Serbia, the owner, the tenant or the user of the property provides access to the necessary protection measures or to give mail to victims. The local self-government unit is taking care of the regular maintenance of war memorials, located on its territory, and the maintenance funds plan within its budget. In particular, in order to prevent the collapse and damage of war memorials in the Republic of Serbia, which are important for the care of the tradition of liberation wars, the minister, on a proposal from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, determines the way and the amount of costs the ministry will be involved in helping local self-government. I would just like to point out that on the 14th km from the City of Užica, the city from which I come, there is a large "Kadinjača" memorial complex as a memorial for fallen fighters in November 1941, where the entire working battalion, which protected the retreat of our liberators, died when they retreated to Sandzak. It is a major memorial complex that all of us citizens of western Serbia, the town of Užica, the whole state and all of us should be kept in mind, both until now and in the coming period and so that the victims of fallen fighters on our country's territory are never forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40894	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40895	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. A bill on war memorials. I propose adding item 2 which reads: "The Labour Memory Law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions". Along with language, letter, history, religion and customs, the immovable cultural heritage, which includes war memorials, is an integral part of the identity of a nation. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to their protection. So far, legal protection of the memorials has contained numerous shortcomings, creating a need for a new law that will in one free way regulate this area which is of paramount importance for the Republic of Serbia. First of all, this area has been regulated differently so far, and legal solutions concerning war memorials are in different legal acts. The problem is solved by the draft law on war memorials as a codification of the regulations governing this area. On the other hand, all the legal solutions in force were made more than 40 years ago. Since then, social political flows have changed significantly, along with many institutions entrusted with the responsibility of protecting war memorials. This led to problems arising from undefined competences where they generated additional financial costs, prevented control of the funds spent for this purpose and led to inefficient protection. A bill on war memorials, except for... Addressing this problem, given the importance of war memorials for the Republic of Serbia, but also the importance of the Bill's proposal, I believe that it must be pointed out already in the first Article of the Bill of Law that is being achieved on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, the efficiency of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40896	Thank you, colleague Savkic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40897	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with an associate, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a War Memorial Act with special emphasis on the efficiency of local self-government. That's what I want to further define the content of this article. This law is significant, above all, because after 40 years of different regulations, it uniquely regulates the area of war memorials and refers to all areas related to war memorials. This also refers to regular maintenance, investment maintenance, keeping records of war memorials, and also financing war memorials. Why is the special emphasis on the efficiency of local self-government when it comes to this article, that is, this law? First of all, because this law for the first time clearly defines the competences of local self-government in regulating war memorials and makes it clear that regular maintenance is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, that local self-government should in its budget separate certain funds for the regular maintenance of war memorials, but it is said that there is also the possibility that the competent ministry should allocate certain funds for the financing of war memorials unless local self-government is able to maintain them regularly. Also, what is significant is the increase in efficiency of local self-government, is that the Law provides that there will be records of both institutions that are responsible for the protection of war memorials and central records, but what concerns units of local self-government is that there will be records of local self-governments to count again how many in local self-governments there are war memorials, in order to see what condition these war memorials are and what should be done to improve the state of war materials. Given that Serbia participated in six wars in the previous century, in the First and Second Balkan wars, in World War I, in World War II, and if we count on the territory of the former SFRY and later on in Kosovo to count on only two wars, it is assumed that there are between 4,000 and 6,000 war memorials in Serbia and we are therefore obliged to settle this area because of those sacrifices suffered in those six wars. We are obliged to keep our rich and liberating history and remember that some younger than us, and also to leave a good memory of all that we have achieved in the last century for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40898	Thank you. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Milosav Milojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40899	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 1. I would like to add Article 2 to the bill, which reads: "The Law on War Memorials provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector". As we can see, this law regulates the area of protection, maintenance, arrangements, funding of war memorial records in a comprehensive way. The war memorial is each monument, a skeleton, a memorial mark and another public pytetic symbol of importance for the cultivation of Serbia's tradition of Liberation Wars. Serbia is a state that, although small, has played a major role in a series of conflicts against conquering forces and aggressors. The proud people of Serbia died and died for freedom and justice during the Middle Ages in bloody conflicts from the end of the 18th and early 19th centuries, then in the Balkan wars, the First and Second World Wars, in later conflicts and the percentage number of residents always suffered the greatest victims in the world. The grateful state respects and recognizes these victims and in their honor and memory are raised numerous monuments. Our task now is to regulate, by passing this law, the handling of these war memorials, because although the suffering of our brave people will never be forgotten, we must ensure that even the symbols of this suffering as reminders are maintained and maintained. There are numerous monuments and memorials on the territory of Arangelovac to the victims of the Liberation Wars and the struggle of the Serb people against the aggressors, and it is our desire to invest in war memorials that we get a chance for economic development. In further presentation of the amendments, I will specify examples of links between war memorials and ways to improve the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40900	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40901	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by commending the Ministry of Labour's initiative, employment, martial arts and social affairs, to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the adoption of a law aimed at making the state's functioning more effective in the process of protecting the maintenance, planning, setting up and removing war memorials. I think it's really one big thing and it's a correction of historical injustice, because such a law should have been passed long before, but what's there is, we better do it now, than wait for it again some next time. Where my dilemma is and where my question is Minister Djordjevic is - will this law cover Serb sites and Serbian victims from the area of the formerly notorious Independent State of Croatia? Why am I asking that question? In accordance with Article 2(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The draft law on war memorials stands – the war memorial is a military cemetery, an individual grave, a gravestone, a monument-astrologer, a memorial-capella, a memorial church, a monument, a public memorial-mark, a memorial plate, a place of destruction, a famous place and another pythetic symbol of importance for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. Article 19 says -- the proposal to build or set up a war memorial must contain a description of a concrete war event that is in line with Serbia's free-war assets. Article 20 states -- the proposal to remove the war memorial must contain evidence that it is committed to an event that is not in line with Serbia's free war fluids. Finally, in Article 22(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, – there is no permit to build or place a memorial mark on a concrete war event that is not in line with Serbia's emancipation wars. So there is one dilemma here whether this new law, a comprehensive law on war memorials, will be covered by repeated Serbian victims and Serbian stops in the NDH area? It is well known that during the notorious NDH, more than a million Serbs died in the most monstrous ways, that we have over 1,000 Serb sites where Serb civilians, Serbian children, Serbian women and men were killed, in the area and north of Dalmatia, that is, the whole of Dalmatia, like, Bania, Kordun, Slavonia, Srema, Baranja, Bosnian Krajina, Herzegovina, Podrinja, Semberia, central Bosnia, Posavina, Sarajevo areas, etc. What I particularly want to point out as an important question is, for example, if some associations, some citizens want to, or appeal to, the Serbian Government, to start for example. The exhumation of Serbian victims from the Sharan Cave in Lica, it is well known that in today's Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina there are over 400 karst caves and other underground sites, where Serbian civilians and the bones of Serb victims are largely thrown. Could the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of this law, suggest or support the initiative of individual associations and citizens, I repeat, that Sharan's cave, where, according to the estimates of Djura Zatezal historians, the founder of the historical archive in Karlovac, is thrown away, i.e. the bones of about 10,000 Serb victims. In 1990, two Belgrade speleologists landed in the Sharan cave in Lica, found that it is deep between 42-46m, that at the bottom of the width is about 6h4m and that bone deposits are over 4mm. So, all estimates say that they are somewhere between 9,000 and 11,000 Serb victims. I repeat, there's a large number of such beautiful pits and other places. So, just over 400 karst pits and other underground places. Also, what is important, can this law allow the Republic of Serbia to launch an initiative to restore the ruined memorials in today's Croatia that have been destroyed during the 1990s? So these are the questions asked me by the traditional associations in the territory of Croatia, in the area of Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and a significant number of individuals, so, finally, I would ask you again if this law will cover both Serbian victims and Serb NDH sites? It is my opinion that it should consider that in addition to the wording "freedom wars of Serbia" there is also an addition to "the freeing wars of the Serbian people". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40902	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does he want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40903	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, honourable MPs, by passing a law on war memorials, the Republic of Serbia legally regulates this area and shows its respect for our common need to preserve a worthy memory of victims and participants of armed conflicts in the past. Our goal is not to let history end this way, which would make no difference who was on which side. With this law and our future and according to war memorials, we will affirm the principle of patriotism and patriotism that, at the time of the rule of the "yellow company" are brought even to negative significance. The mockery of the term "patriotism" has been heard precisely by those who are bothered by everything today, particularly by the progress, recovery and strengthening of Serbia in every sense. But I don't want to talk about them. The members of the "yellow company" do not deserve so much attention, because who else in Serbia is interested in what someone who barely crossed the censorship thinks. So this law and its own war memorials respect the principle of equality and respect historical national, political, religious and other personalities, but also affirm antifascism, patriotism, understanding and co-operation with everyone in the region and beyond with which we share the same values. However, as President Vukic recently said, we will not allow an end to history in which those in the region who were on the side of fascists in World War II and on the side of the conquerors in the First, will hold lectures and lectures on freedom and a different view of the past. During this year, the Republic of Serbia will have a series of events that will mark 100 years of World War I victory and the protection of war memorials and crash sites, and we will show respect for our past and for all who have laid down their lives for the future of their homeland, for us and for our future. I will quote again the words of President Alexander Vukic – We are celebrating Victory in World War I, unlike others, who always celebrate some truce. We celebrate victory because we were on the right freedom side in First, as well as World War II. In the end, if we don't adopt my amendment, I call on all the MPs to adopt the bill on war memorials submitted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40904	I thank my colleague, Djokic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone have a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone have a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone have a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone have a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone have a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Fired Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40905	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has a rich but perilous history. We've always been robbed by truth and justice, and in the 20th century, we've experienced three genocides, but every time we rise, we continue to build our country. Our army has written out one of the most important pages of great history by winning the Colubary, the Church Battle, the Thessaloniki Front and others. Also, in World War II, our people were the first to rise up in enslaved Europe against Nazi Germany. And in the last wars our soldiers bravely defended our people and fought since then against the greatest military alliance in the world. What we must do and do is never forget these victories, these brave men who have built their lives into the foundations of the freedom we enjoy today. It's this law, editing this area, that's a good way to do it. There were times when they tried to break the thread with our famous history, when they tried to convince us that we should be ashamed of her, but failed to convince the Serbian people. Today, Serbia proudly remembers all the brave soldiers, peasants, ordinary citizens who gave their lives to live in freedom today. The holidays are marked and war memorials are taken care of. Unlike some of the past, this government understands well that there is no strong country and economy if the national identity of a nation is destroyed. It is this bill of law that will preserve war memorials and leave them from generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40906	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40907	Thank you. This country is worth dying for. These are the latest words by Tibor Cerna, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia of Hungarian nationality, who died in 1999 in Kosharam defending Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia from the Cypriot terrorists and attacks by the NATO alliance. For days, a sniper in Kosharam has caused huge losses to Serbian defence. Since the foreigner's payer was well camouflaged and it was not possible to locate the place from which he acted and inflicted losses on the Serbian military, Tibor Cerna's own initiative rose from the trenches in April with the intention of waiting for a bullet and thus contributes to the discovery of snipers and its elimination. That's exactly what happened. The sniper was located, then eliminated. A lot of lives were saved that way, but unfortunately, Tibor Cerna lost his life. This is exactly the story of how you can best contribute to your own country and the story of responsibility to your own country and your own people. However, it is also a responsibility when you respect and safeguard such actions in the memory of your own people. The responsibility is when you institutionally preserve the memory of Tibora Cern and all those similar to him. That's exactly what this government has. Last June, President Vukic, along with Kata, Tibor Cerna's mother, discovered a monument or a war memorial to this Serbian hero in Debeljaca near Kovacica, last year. Serbia's hero. This is not just a monument to Tibor Cerni, but to all those who, like him, have installed themselves in this country. However, the intensity of my amendment is to contribute to the fight against crime and through this legal solution. Unfortunately, it's possible, and we've also witnessed that this was happening in the past for crime to go down in this area. Isn't it a crime when people like Tibor Cerna arrive, you call aggressors in your own country, you humiliate, you arrest, and you lock up in theaters all over the country and the world? Isn't it a crime when you let the enemies and terrorists responsible for the most monstrous crimes unpunished from prison in Serbia, as is the case with the Azrek brothers, who were released from prison under very strange circumstances, the Azrek brothers who are responsible for the most terrible crime in Klecka village in KIM? Isn't it a crime when you start calling Cypriot terrorists armed Albanians, and you start calling NATO aggression an intervention? In the end, crime is when somewhere in, I say, the end of that fatal October 5th devastated and destroyed the "Eternal Fire", which was erected in memory of the victims of NATO aggression, when you removed the text from it that explained why and how that monument was erected. This amendment of mine is precisely the border between those two things, between what we saw last year at the discovery of the monument to Tibor Cerni and what we saw at sunset on October 5th, when it comes to the "Eternal Fire" monument. My amendment is also the difference between the relationship between this government and this president towards the works of Tibor Cerna and him similar to that of the terrible and difficult period of DOS rule, but also a symbolic reminder to those who will carry out this legal solution in the future, that they will never again allow such and at least said criminal activity in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40908	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40909	After all these discussions, it is clear that this law is welcome, but that it is not final and that it will experience its changes and additions very quickly, which is certainly good. In my discussion, I'd like to talk about the relationship between these laws that we're making and the budgets. You've seen that whenever we've passed a new law, there's always a sentence or a page or a half of a page as much as this new law affects spending, whether it increases budget costs, whether it's asking for new money from the budget, and we've never talked about whether the new law brings new money, whether it's the full budget. We are all talking about these amendments today, talking about how this law that will be brought to fill the budget, because the money coming out of the budget, gentlemen, is going to have to go back to that budget as much as possible. It's best when it comes back fertilized, with a percentage greater than 100. I will prove on one small case that in the educational process, I stress this educational process, because this educational component is particularly highlighted here. Let's just take the pre-school, primary and secondary school work programmes. If we just get control of that part, and that program goes to the school board, goes to the Ministry of Education, goes to the county administration, goes to the city administration, and if we make sure that the students first meet themselves and their homeland and their county and their republic, and only then do they want to leave the border to be out of the country, do you know how much savings we're going to make? Let's start with history classes, extracurricular activities, field trip lessons, class elders classes. This law must be a manual for all those who work in educational institutions. So it's about money being spent, which helps education, which helps education, which helps education, patriotism, etc., but we need to get away from ourselves, from our homeland, and then get out of line. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40910	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40911	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, although it may be concluded, it is true that the economic results are the result of operational action in one fiscal year, let us in no way interfere with the mind that the functioning of a nation in fact in the economy depends on its legacy. Economic memories, memories, memories in Serbia are something that always stands out there for us, are less painful than war memorials. But certainly, the consequences of this memory and the wrong decisions can be painful and have left great consequences for the functioning of the Serbian state. And economic theory says so. When we talk about the budget as a key fiscal parameter for one nation, then one part of the budget says that the budget is, in fact, everything we inherited from previous generations in the area of investment, machinery, equipment that allows our generation to in one fiscal year, that's another criterion, do what it does. And the third thing about budgets is to borrow, or leave to future generations what they leave behind. When some future generations see what we have done since 2015 and remember and memorialize our economics, then we can rightly be proud of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic, because we have built macroeconomic stability in Serbia's memory since 2015. The memory and parameters of macroeconomic stability since 2015 concerning the growth of social gross product in 2018 from 4.5% and in 2016 and 2017. The decline in unemployment levels, i.e. the rise in employment levels, the stable rate of inflation, is a memory that is also important for future generations, as well as the memory of our war memory generations before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40912	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40913	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the care of culture, history and cultural historical heritage is a feature of modern society. The relevant economic indicators say we are among the four countries in Europe with the highest rate of economic growth. Compared with economic growth, we are implementing measures for accelerated economic development, and the law on war memorials that we are discussing today testifys. The amendment I have just submitted to Article 1 for reasons of fostering and marking tradition, but also honoring fallen fighters from the Liberation Wars is a feature of overall development because Serbia today has the means, but also the will to honor fallen fighters from the Liberation Wars. All parts of our country, whether it's east or west, north or south, are rich in history. Toplice, where I come from, has always given the best heroes. That is what the famous Heat Iron Regiment is talking about, but also the resistance of the population that culminated during the War I War I in 1917 in occupied Serbia. In honor of the Iron regiment, or the Second Infantry regiment "Knjiz Mihajlo" from the village of Igište, the locals raised an initiative to raise monuments. On the initiative of locals, after many years, a monument was erected in 2016 in collaboration, of course, with the municipality of Kursumli. The monument was erected by fallen fighters from the 1912 to 1918 Liberation Wars. The monument's worth is over 30,000 euros, the monument's height is 5.3 metres, and the monument has written part of Serbian history, as well as the names of fallen fighters from the Liberation Wars of the period. An initiative to raise monuments, as I have already said, was launched more than ten years ago, and ended only in 2016 in co-operation with the municipality of Kursumli, headed by the SNS, and this all says that our government is fostering the past, but is doing everything to make Serbian citizens live better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40914	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Branko Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40915	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seen in the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments, creating the most favourable conditions for the development of our country. Local self-government units are concerned about the regular maintenance of war memorials located on its territory, and the funds are planned and provided in the budget of local self-government units. The municipality of Nova Varoš, apart from investment in health care and health institutions, is very active in creating new ideas and new projects that directs the country's numerous competitions. More than seven million dinars were approved and secured in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the project to expand the New Varosa Museum. The project envisions an adaptation of the space in which the mention of the room will be dedicated to Duke Petar Bojovic, as well as to the centenarians since the end of the Great War. In addition to construction works, museum equipment for new exhibits has been planned. Also, the municipality of Nova Varoš has allocated 1.5m dinars in its budget to raise monuments for around 1,200 Novovaroshans who gave their lives for freedom in two Balkan and First World War. The monument will be erected on November 1st on the day of the municipality, marking the 100th anniversary of the Thessaloniki front breakthrough and the liberation of Serbia from occupiers in the Great War, as well as the 160th anniversary of the birth of Duke Petar Bojovic. These facts are evidence of the good policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which fundamentally implements projects of vital importance and takes care of the memory of our heroes, while at the same time doing everything to create a better future for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40916	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40917	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, there are 36 monuments in the territory of the town of Leskovec, of which 10 in the city itself and 26 in the suburban settlements and villages, 14 mentions of the Czechs, one in the city itself, 40 of them are busts, 23 in the city itself and 17 in the surrounding cities, and 124 of the record, of which 28 in the city itself and 96 in the surrounding cities. Of these memorials, about two-thirds are dedicated to World War II, then wars from 1912 to 1918, and wars from 1990 to 1999, while one monument and one monument are dedicated to the Second Serbian - Turkish war from 1877 to 1878. All the monuments were erected in the 20th century, and the majority in its second half. Liberation wars have shown the unbreakable spirit of the Serb people resting on its character traits and rich historical memory. Except for the oral and written words, the great role in fostering that memory is war memorials. For Leskovčana, the special monument of the park in Hisar is made up of statues of victory and 17 stones with the names of the most prominent Woodland fighters in the Second World War, then, the mention of the mark of the Arab Valley in which 500 patriots were shot in 1941, and the monument of freedom that lies in the central city park and is dedicated to the fallen in wars from 1912 to 1918, and was erected in 1927 for the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the liberation of the Turks. Also, the mention of the innocent victims of the Allied bombing of Leskovcan in 1944, located outside the pharmacy Sutjesk, and the monument of those killed in the Second World War in Belanovac. A monument to the fallen Serbian heroes is to be mentioned in 1915 on the road Leskovac – Vlasotince, where on 24 October 1915, a third-invited company of the Third Infantry Regiment died defending the bridge on South Morava. A monument to seven unknown fallen heroes in the defense of Leskovec in 1915, which is located in the Kasar "South Camp", opened in 1936 in front of state officials, woodworking industrialists, merchants and citizens of Leskovec. An innocent monument to the fallen victims in the Arap Valley in 1917 is located near the church in the Holy Cemetery. The monument to the Austro-Hungarian soldiers should also be highlighted in the cemetery in the village of Footing, which the Austrian soldiers themselves raised to their comrades. The relationship to such memorials is the fundamental and civilizational behavior of every nation. The place of the monument and the mention of the memorial must be a sacred place that must never be defiled. It is thought that the historical past, as a basis for future generations' progress, cannot and must not be forgotten, the town of Leskovac is concerned and regularly maintains all mentioned mentions of what numerous actions are talking about. The heads of the city regularly respond to calls for participation to mark significant anniversarys and place garners on the memorial of the mark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40918	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40919	Dear Minister, I cannot be surprised at some of my fellow Members for some of their discussions here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I can't because I'm not in favor of war and love, so, therefore, in politics and I can't accept the fact that everything has its price, even freedom and honor. Asking the questions that Serbia has waged in the Liberation Wars is, at the very least, rude. Here we are talking about memorials that should mark both the sites of Serbian casualties and major Serb battles and the 1912 victory. My fellow MPs forgot that where the Serb soldier did not come, he was not freed from any people, even Albania won its statehood by winning the Serbian and Montenegrin armies, but we will always blame something for politics and gaining political points, some political power to come to some political advantage. I don't think there's room for that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, these same peoples that we freed and lived with Serbs, I suppose, to justify crimes against their neighbours, and to our countrymen, the Serb army and the Serb people declared the occupation. Now, I don't know, my fellow MPs who defend this position, do they defend their countrymen, who live beyond Serbia for centuries, did they occupy themselves, did they kill themselves, did they throw themselves into caves, did they flee, unfortunately, and in recent Serbian history, from the Ustasha knife, from the Ustasha crime, fled to Serbia, the queen? Who are my fellow MPs defending? If they defend those who cast the Serbian people into the womb from their centuries-old hearth, well, isn't that a new crime, so we're making these people crimes again? The Serbian people paid their freedom dearly, which is why they defend it. That is why those who, for no reason, attacked us in 1999 were surprised at how we can and how much we can defend ourselves. Now, in order to justify their crimes, which took place throughout the then-Yugoslav Republic and present-day Serbia, should be blamed for political leadership, which, I guess, attacked itself, attacked its own people. We've got mistakes, we've got to question them, but none of them close enough to have anything like this happening to us. Then why are my fellow MPs defending this aggression and the vindication of this aggression? Why are they defending us today to talk about the Serbian army's heroism, the loss of Serbian civilians, the loss of Serbian children? I suppose they would justify criminals against the Serbian people in the last 100 years. Many crimes have been committed, and there is no political idea, there is no political ideology that can justify this, and that man can remain in a healthy mind or a pure soul. Now they want to forbid us from our soldiers, who brought us freedom, which day we enjoy, that our victims of civilians, that we do not mourn them, that we must not mark their sites, that we must not mark the places where the great victories were, I do not understand. I can't understand any communist ideology, which was from 1945 until the fall of the SFRY, because of some brotherhood and unity, forbidding us the same thing, celebrating our victories and marking the places where our victims died. But that's not there, that ideology is gone. What kind of ideology does my colleague have to do something like this now? To make fun of the form of the amendment, making fun of the victims and the liberators. I can't understand that. I can't understand that. That's why I think this law should be passed, for the reason we teach our children how we came to freedom, so that we don't disappear, that the sacrifices our people had wouldn't be inexplicable. Those who oppose it, their lives are inexplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40920	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40921	Thank you. The amendment, which was submitted and discussed by a fellow MP, reads - the War Memorial Act provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the business climate. That's what this amendment is about. It is necessary to explain how this law affects the development of a business climate. In a rather logically tense way, it could be said – it makes sense for the development of a business climate to mean the maturity of a society that is faced with its present, its past and thus ready to develop both the business climate and the structure of its own society, so that it can be truly developed and successfully, but it is a very tense logic and therefore this amendment falls under one of the many unworthy amendments, when an amendment is submitted that, I repeat, the Law on War Memorials provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the development of the business climate. I have already noted once, and I will repeat, since it is obvious that we have a misunderstanding, a banal but profoundly, that this technique to use the time allocated to all MPs may be legal, but in the case of this law it is completely illegal. Using one of these amendments to rightly speak for yourself, which is about war memorials, which about the deaths of people in our country, is a line that honorable people don't cross. If there were maturity in society, my question of what wars we lost in the 1990s, and in which wars we won, would be answered by that mature society, not by demeaning, mocking, and the victims and the dead, and by the wars of the 1990s and all wars before. The Mythical Dictionary is legal, not legitimate, if you want to combine war memorials and the development of the business climate, to abuse the procedure in the Assembly and do what you think is allowed because you belong to the majority coalition in the Assembly. It's not most of them who give away legitimacy, it's never been. The values that people represent give legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40922	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have used the right to submit an amendment to state my political position both legally and legitimately. And I took it out, and I was talking about how some people want to silence us, how they don't want the crimes against the Serbian people to know, how they don't want to know about the freeing tradition of the Serbian people, how they want to justify the crimes committed against the Serbian people and in Serbia and outside Serbia, and I'm glad some of my colleagues made an identification of who they are and what they are, attacking my amendment and the reasons why I wanted to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40924	Replica, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40925	The only national message that in the National Assembly and in the public of Serbia and the ruling majority and significant people in the ruling coalition and minority of pies – which we lost in the wars of the 1990s, and in which we won, is me. No one else asks that. Everyone else does. And I think the answers to these questions are necessary so that we can really turn the present that we are living, without answering those questions, into a common good, developmental future. If I ever want to mention what is slandered in my statement, you will have no doubt, I speak very clearly, unequivocally. Every kind of ugly thing you're trying to put in place of this simple question, which I've only received from one person and I won't mention names, "nomina sunto diose", a significant man, an influential man, who said – the war with NATO has been lost, and the people have won, and in other wars we haven't participated. That's the only answer I got about the deaths of tens and hundreds of thousands of people. I know this isn't Minister Zoran Djordjevic's job, and I'm sorry this dialogue leads to you. This is the work of our MPs. I do my work, and there may be others who will ask. What wars have we lost in the 1990s, in which we have won. Because it's up to the law on war memorials. I wish this law had full application and no amendments, inconsistencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40926	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40927	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't ask that question. I asked the question – why do my fellow MPs not want us to mark the sites that are the sites of the Serb people? I asked the question – when will everyone finally be responsible for crimes against the Serb people? I asked the question – why was illegal and nothing caused by aggression in 1999 committed to Serbia? I asked those questions. And yet another, who is in the interest of not marking those places, who is in the interest of the Serbian people not to love freedom and who is in the interest of not knowing and hiding how much freedom is expensively paid? It's paid for by life, not by money, and some for money, if they could, they'd take someone's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40928	By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40929	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, DS 11,000 Belgrade, Terrace, Colonel General Ratko Mladic, Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army - Honored Mr. General, on behalf of all members of the DS, and on my personal behalf to all soldiers, officers, officers and I personally congratulate you on the Day of the Republika Srpska Army. The Republika Srpska Army, created in the war for freedom, is an example of how a small, but the people's army can successfully preserve the state and protect the people, regardless of the peace talks. I note, regardless of the peace negotiations, whose success we all want. We need a strong army so that the other side, you know and which Croatian-Muslim, will give up its intention to continue the war. I hope that the Serbian people, as well as the Republika Srpska Army, will welcome the next Vidovdan in peace. With respect, Dr Zoran Djindjic, DS President, Belgrade on June 28th 1994. My question for Mrs Comic – was it a question in which wars Serbia participated and in which it did not? What wars have we won and in which we lost, asked the former president of the DS?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40930	Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40931	Thank you. And the answer he gave, the DS, which he gave in order to make a strategy to break up conflict policy, isolation, wars and sanctions is -- this Serbia has lost all wars. Until we face our losing wars, we won't be able to win in peace. They are not words for which I have ears here, but that does not mean that those words do not stand as a flint stone in everything Serbia does and what the ruling majority does not see, in those words the defence of the election results was built in 2000, all the work that is being done today rose and slandered, in those words rests European integration and normalisation of talks with Pristina. And that's a policy that failed, in a violent, verbally violent way led by the SNS. It's not a bit of a pleasure to see the DS idea win, but it's... You can yell as much as you want, unsuccessfully, unprofessionally, in a violent way and mocking the rule of law, implement the idea of DS that beat you and the words of man -- we've lost all wars, let's gather ourselves together so we can win in the future. You've never understood it, you don't understand it now, but I understand that you don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40932	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic): Something wise now, not like Arsic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40933	I can't be wiser than Mr. Milojic, he's the wisest politician in this assembly, but I'll try it my way. This language of phrases we have heard, the language of phrases that mean nothing, which try to hide a sad truth, which is that today DS is one, unfortunately or fortunately some, ordinary political wreck, one property bought by the largest tycoon in Serbia, Dragan Djilas, cannot conceal the fact that Mrs. Comic did not answer my question. If the Serbian people lost all the wars they fought during the 1990s, then how did President Zoran Djindjic write in this letter in 1994 that the army of the Republic of Serbia was created in a war for freedom and that this army is an example of how a small but people's army can succeed, not successfully, but can successfully preserve and protect the people? As much as you hold a picture of Zoran Djindjic on your main boards without a quorum, you don't even see what he saw. Republika Srpska is one big victory for the Serbian people, Republika Srpska is one big victory for Serbia. You're making fun of me. I don't think only a politically blind man can see that the creation of Republika Srpska... (President: I thank my colleague Martinovic. I'm done. So, the states of the Serb people, the only Serbian state of the Serb people west of Drina, are a great success, primarily of the Serb people who lived in the premises of BiH, but also of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40934	Thank you. Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40935	Thank you. Do not delay your perception that the war for the Republic of Serbia is one of the wars Serbia has won, you will have little to do with the claim with official reports of Serbia participating in the war in Bosnia. And you will have an even bigger problem with today's official foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. Marko Atlagic: Come on. But either way, the people's ambassadors who earn – come on, I can – come with me to Knin, if you will. I can go to Knin. I can go to the Jamari. I can go to the Cimeshas. I can go anywhere in Croatia. I hope that MP gets across the border without a problem, so he shows his proud face in Krajina. I don't know, I'm asking. Since meetings of MPs are held there, the MP has the will to throw and participate, so who am I saying? Why should we not, the government and the opposition in Croatia? Regardless of the fact that we are not going to be able to answer the questions that I am asking in any way in this conversation, it is good to have at least this much talk about one important topic, because they were living people -- some who are wounded, some who are expelled, some who are no longer alive. Because of these people, we're making war memorial laws. And on behalf of that deep respect for the truth, I have an objection to the way you treat amendments to this topic and I'm always ready for dialogue on the results of the '90s war policies. One day we'll have it as a serious topic and especially, and not like this, along with amendments to unworthy debates.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40936	Comrade Martinovic, I will give you the right to a replica, only before you are injured by the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40937	Article 107. A really very offensive debate just before, offensive to every Serb, to the Republic of Serbia, to the Republic of Serbia, and then that means every MP. I don't know what Mrs. Comic meant by the fact that her colleague said that it was Republika Srpska and that it was really a state of the Serbian people, that we would have problems somewhere when we met on that topic somewhere? Maybe where she's going to talk? Maybe Scott's? Maybe in the Sorosh Foundations of whatever kind? But wherever it is spoken to Serbs and to all citizens who live in Serbia and who are loyal to the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that these problems are not there, nor will they be. Republika Srpska is the pride of the Serbian people. I really don't understand that someone can talk differently about that state, about this real Serbian state? Says Mrs. Comic where she can do anything and go. Well, I'm not sure that's something to brag about. There are many people here who are born in Republika Srpska, on the territory of the current Bosnia and Herzegovina, present Croatia and many cannot go there, but not because Gordana Komic is worth more than they are, but because they or someone who participated in the wars, because they died in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, and I don't think anyone has the right to talk about this and to boast that she can go to Knin. Maybe August 4th if no one in their right mind wants to go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40938	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40939	Mrs. Comic said we could meet in Knin. She referred those words to Professor Mark Atlagic. Well, you, Mrs. Komic, I have no doubt that you can go to Knin whenever you want, you and while you were in power, you ran politics – dear Ivo, if I am not mistaken, boasting that Ivo Sanader would give you thousands and thousands, though in Croatian, translated EU flows. Of course, Serbia has never received those translations. I have no doubt you can go to Knin. You can also go to Zagreb and I have no doubt that there will be a very welcoming welcome, but unfortunately, Marko Atlagic in his native Dalmatia and in his native Knin is hard to go because he was Minister of the Government of the Republika Srpska Krajina, because he defended the Serbian people in Republika Srpska when he was having a hard time and as a university professor in 1995 he became a refugee in Serbia, precisely by those you once called in power – dear Ivo, dear Stipe etc. But I want to remind you of something else, Mrs. Comic. You from the DS hide like a snake's foot, what's your other, you then called it a benevolent face, today you call it a war-scraper. Just let me read it, Mr. Milicevic. It's short. The DS statement, dated 2 October 1990, on the arrest of Serbian Chetnik Movement President Dr Vojislav Seselj. The People's MPs of the DS are getting it. Yes, yes, slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40940	A colleague of Martinovic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40941	I'm done. (Alexandra Jerkov: Time is up.) Yeah, yeah, it's time to show what DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40942	I thank you, you will have the opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40943	Allow me, Mr. Milicevic. It's time to show off... You see how nervous they are, as soon as a man wants to read something, they start yelling right away. So - in connection with the arrest of Dr Vojislav Seselj by the internal affairs authorities for enrolling volunteers and organising assistance in the people of the Serbian people in Croatia, the main DS Committee is determined to demand that Dr Vojislav Seselj be released immediately...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40944	My colleague Martinovic, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40945	The arrest and conviction of Vojislav Seselj is the most flagrant violation of the elemental civil rights and proof of the addition of Article 133. Criminal code. It's obvious that in the election campaign... The funds of Serbian communists, i.e. Socialists, DS President Dragoljub Micunovic. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40946	I'm gonna have to interrupt. Thank you. There will be an opportunity to continue the debate, given that Col. Comic... Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40947	Thank you. First, the title of elected presidents of the state and prime minister in the region. If there is a reason to say for the president of Serbia -- that's how it is done, then that's when it also refers to all the presidents or governments or ministers or the presidents of the countries in the region, it does well. At least let him work on the words to address dear Colinda and dear Milorad and dear Boruta and everyone else dear in the region, including Zoran Zaev, I hope that Zoran will also be able to tell dear Zorana Zaev. So, that's a courtesy that's good to see in the current president of Serbia, and it would be even better to see the works behind it. As for the defense of Vojislav Seselj, and to repeat everything as it was in the '90s, I'd say the same - let a man go, arrest him with your own free will, arrest him by mocking the rights that a man has. And just because I would do it again, I have the right to say – today is a convicted war criminal, act by law and take away his mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40948	Right on the line. My colleague Martinovic, I know that you are a gentleman and that you will leave your colleague to Radeta, since the president of the SRS has also been mentioned. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40949	How nice it sounds when Gordana Comić starts talking like this, to finally say what she essentially wants to say all day. Vojislav Seselj is not a war criminal. Gordana Comic should be able to read, obviously she does not know, because it is high time she and her Democrats read what it says in The Hague tribunal's ruling. Vojislav Seselj was not convicted of war crimes, but the essence is something else. Gordana Comic and her Democrats, now in various forms gathered around Dragan Djilas, actually want to translate wrongly and to say that Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal because of the exorcising of the alleged Croat from the Croats, so that it could serve them that they can say tomorrow – here, you Serbs have driven the Croats out of Serbia's territory and therefore it is justified that some of Serbia's AP Vojvodina is no longer in Serbia. He said this morning, I think, fellow Martinovic, they have in their parliamentary group Aleksandra Jerkov who has been an open separatist for decades, and for them it is nothing strange. But I think it is high time that the official state of Serbia, and above all, the National Assembly, announced on this subject, that someone read the final verdict to Vojislav Seselj, spoken in The Hague tribunal, whatever the tribunal is, and we know how anti-Serb it is, and that finally someone puts an end to this insolence and that Vojislav Seselj is not a war criminal, that he did not commit a war crime, that he did not write it in his verdict and that finally these Ustasha servants shut his mouth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40950	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40951	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, everyone has the right to be fond of someone. I don't know if the Serbian people were a dear man who was the deputy foreign minister at the time of the Storm. I don't know if the Serbian people are fond of a man who, after leaving Belgrade, went from the position of the chairman of the SFRJ presidency to the Croatian Parliament and said, "I have accomplished my task, Yugoslavia is no more." I personally don't like these people, I don't think they're nice or most of the people of the Serbian people, you may be, I don't mind. But I want to tell you that your policy is a policy of complete contradiction and illogicality. You honor us here how pointless our amendments are. Your policy is pointless. You in 1990, let me just finish, you protest in 1990 against the arrest of Dr Vojislav Seselj because he organized volunteers to go to Krajina and you say you would do it again, and in the follow-up to the sentence you say – but we ask that his term be taken away because he is a war criminal." If you see any logic in that, any consistency... You're saying we have no idea. And what's your idea? Your idea in 1990 was to send volunteers to Krajina, yes, to congratulate Mladic in 1994, yes, to have one paramilitary formation in Republika Srpska led by Mauser, yes, to deliver Slobodan Milosevic in 2008 to Radovan Karadzic and in 2011 Ratko Mladic. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40952	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Wait a minute, colleague Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic: Do you understand what you have done? You arrested the man your president congratulated on Vidovdan in 1994. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Mr Milicevic, I am reporting under Article 108. Rules of Procedure. You're required to take care of the order at the session. You know, since you are also a man of the people, the old saying: “The dog is barking, the wind is carrying on, ” and in our people, there is no other expression for certain phenomena that we have here in the congregation. You were obliged to give a warning to a certain Gordana Komic because it is a warning measure when, for a legal and legitimately elected national representative who is certainly everything, he is just not a war criminal, and that is the president of our party, he says something like that. I would ask you, Mr. Milicevic, to let the other MPs and the public hear, better you say the warning than to take certain measures outside the Assembly Hall. That's not funny. When you were blasphemy and ossions, and not now the misery and misery of the CIA, Soros and all the traitors who came upon this country, I could tell you that you were nothing, that you were the worst thing that had ever appeared in Serbia, that you could bring us out of the gym, that you could take away our word, and that unfortunate woman threw out 56 MPs of the SRS because they were wearing a T-shirt with a party president who wrote "Serbian hero". Imagine now, in 2018, that misery and that misery of that failed enterprise that robbed this country, betrayed everything that could have been betrayed, sat down here as some experimental rabbits of Gilas and all others who paid them and spoke such words to us who served our country and our heart, to those of us who are most worthy of talking about the subject that should serve the proud generations to come. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40954	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 109 and I'm advertising to Article 107 and Article 108. I think today you have had the most offensive insinuation to hear towards Serbia, the Serbian state and Serbian defenders. Talking about wars like winning or losing is really unnecessary. The war isn't a football championship, so you make a table, you take away and you add up the points. The war can only be spoken of in this way by one who knows or does not know about it, or, thank God, has no part in it or has evil intentions toward his own people and his own state. All wars in Serbia in the past century have been aimed at defending the Serb people and you cannot possibly see them in a way of winning and losing. The issue of war in Serbia in the last century was the question of the survival of the people in general. And then you heard the call to the addition. We don't even look at this addition the same way. Today, by discussing this law, we gather ourselves together over some things, some ideals that are common to all of us, about the history of our warriors in the last century, that is, in the past centuries, and they are now being gathered around Dragan Gilas and his millions. We don't look at this addition the same way, so that call to addition is completely offensive to us. And, please, next time, apply the provisions of article 109 and give notice to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40955	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) A colleague named Milojic gave up his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Right on the line, Col. Comic, or do you want to pick up the amendment? (Gordana Comić: As you say.) We will not be able to “whatever you say. ” By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40956	Thank you. Since it is an amendment that says that - the War Memorial Act provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the development of the business climate. It's an amendment that's currently under search. Just to repeat that all kinds of games with unworthy amendments will not erase the need for a dialogue that we are failing to lead through replicas, but it will draw out that such dialogue is needed in order to be, any political climate in Serbia and that there will be any social development and then business climate. I am very sorry that the law of such content has been used for amendments of unworthy content, with a clear desire for MPs to declare their support all that is good from the results they have done, but with a clear message that we do not know where the ethical limit is when it is not done. I'm really sorry. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40957	Thank you. My colleague Arsic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40958	My colleague Milicevic, mentioned again that my amendment is unworthy, I think I have the right to a replica. Because it seems I'm not worthy of anything, either. I speak quite plain Serbian. I am a member of the Serbian people, I will defend the interests of the Serbian people and of all citizens of Serbia. I'm not going to do anything unworthy to embarrass the state or the people I belong to. This uninterrupted desire to keep this discussion in shape as the amendments are written is a lack of political arguments, nothing else. The desire for the Serb people to feel guilty because they like to live in freedom, to make the Serbian people forget about how freedom has taken place and to stop watching over it. One of my fellow MPs threw away what the price of freedom was. The price of freedom we enjoy today is paid for by millions of lives. She doesn't have a material price anymore, she doesn't exist, you can't materialize that price, it's not about money. Some would sell the future of our children and our people for money and should be ashamed of them. (Radoslav Milojic: Who are they? ) You can, as much as get in, survive the Serbian people and wars and bad government and bad political moves and one bad Democratic Party, survive and now this ideology they offer us, as they claim we adopt their ideas. You don't have a monopoly over anybody's idea. Everyone has a right to their own idea. It's just that some of the ideas we have come to terms, and what you've lost to say while you've been in power, that's your problem. Don't burden us with your problems, we'll never let people, civilians who were killed in wars and in the 1990s be forgotten, never stop fighting for those responsible for their suffering to be brought to justice. We'll never stop fighting... (Radoslav Milojic: What about Thaci? )......................................................................................................... that those responsible for the death and murder of the Serb people be marked in history... (Alexandra Jerkov: And they will be beaten. )......................................................................................................... And for those who earn, we will never stop fighting and prove how much damage they have done to Serbian citizens and what would happen to Serbia if they remained in power for a few years. There would be no Serbian or Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40959	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Ljiljana Malušić submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter, Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40960	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 to explain the importance of this law, because whoever doesn't know about his history and doesn't respect the past, graves, will have no future. Serbia lost 1,243,425 people, mostly Serbs, 28% of the total population, from 18 to 55 years of age in the 1914 to 1918 war. According to our famous historian, Mr. Vasa Kazamirovic, there was not enough canvas, there were not enough black banners to mark every house where someone was killed or killed. According to statistics made for the Versailles Peace Agreement, Serbia lost as much as 43% of the population in the war without Kosovo and Metohija and Macedonia, sociologist Dr Slobodan Vukovic stressed. Retaliation of the enemy, i.e. looting and harassing Serbs, starts from beating through theft, burning property, starving and closing in concentration camps, even underage children were committed only in Serbia, is not only done in Serbia, but wherever Serbs lived, where they were inhabited. In devastated Serbia, after 1918, entire divisions of disabled people were formed, and hundreds of thousands of targets left orphans without foster parents. In World War II, 1,700,000 people were killed and killed, injured over 425,000 people. A million and seven hundred thousand people, mostly Serbs. That is why the need to create an association with war and peacetime Serbian military disableds has arisen. It is an organization that deals with the protection of war and peacetime military disabilities and the users of the family disability, allowing them to make life easier, to improve materially, social status and overall status. All of this can be achieved by organising and approving special reliefs and benefits when solving their housing needs, employment, use of health services, public transport, enrolment in children's school and providing scholarships and housing to homes during schooling, paying for municipal and other services. In this way, the Republic of Serbia shows concern for its war and peacetime military disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40961	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40962	Thank you. I would like to take part in a discussion on memorials related to this amendment, just in my own position that raising the memorial represents giving victims great importance and respect for memory and for a reminder for the next period. It is not the real question that we have lost or in which we have won, whether the army or the people were an aggressor, so the lost war or the right to defend themselves to life in their own country, in their home, in their home, and in their historical roots. It is certain that the right of the people to live in their country and country has been attacked, and in that sense all victims defending their house and their home have the right to be mentioned, that is, not to be forgotten and marked. In the end, NATO illegally attacked our country. We can say that the battles that were fought on Pashtrick and Kosharam were major military victories, since they were designed as an attack on the sovereign state that was meant through that part of the country in fact made a land attack and quite different projected by the end of the war. The heroic defense of the soldiers who defended this part of the country and who in battle one against 600 actually managed to defend it and in that battle surely military victories, have the right to their own oblivion. Finally, in general, the defence of the Serbian people and the creation of Republika Srpska is the success of a defence policy, one of the defence efforts to retain the right, to remain there in its territory, and in this sense I believe that when the debate on this law is debated and this amendment is debated, we should first and foremost have an answer to that goal and give in this sense the answer to the solution offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40963	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40964	Thank you, Vice President. The amendment of counterpart Stojmirovic is to provide the Law on War Memorial with the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the increase in the financial base. I would ask you either, Vice President, to ask a colleague of Stojmirovic to withdraw this amendment, not to really embarrass the National Assembly and not to insult the memory of the people who have been killed, who here today are full of mouths or their family or one of the MPs who will eventually support this amendment, I would ask us, who may be voting, to explain how war memorials can contribute to an increase in the financial base. We'd be grateful for the explanation, so if anyone can explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40965	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40966	So let me try to explain. Radoslav Milojic: Come on. I see Ambassador Kenojcic is delighted that I will explain now. He always enjoys it when I provide a certain explanation. I see he's smiling from ear to ear this time, so let him listen well. So, what does finance have to do with this question or any of the country? We've explained today, with the fact that, of course, we don't expect them to hear it, and those whose benches were empty at that moment, those who came here to fire out those bursts they were probably in charge of by Dragan Gilas, and then went to lunch, drink coffee, cappuccino, what they were doing, I'm not going to get into it, but then when they were dealing with these other more important things, we were talking about here. If there's no way to fund it, there's no proper maintenance, for example. The memory isn't possible, but it's not possible for anything else in the state. Since there's some shame being mentioned here, we've also quoted wise words that say it's a shame to steal your own country. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a great shame. If you want to deal with this shame, here, in the context of this argument and a little proposal – talk about the subject of these shames regarding the theft of your own country with your own leaders. According to your report by the task force, the DS working groups, since 2006, and beyond -- all those who were DS leaders, or the yellow company, are directly responsible for this type of theft, says a report published in November 2017 as some internal report. I'll read you a few quotes now. He says, a financially powerful minority within the party is meant by the yellow company DS, of course... (Alexandra Jerkov: Financial base. )......................................................................................................... Taking care exclusively of personal and corporate interests, of course, has brought down the reputation and permanently stuck the "yellow thieves" label to all DS members. So when someone in Serbia says yellow thieves today, they mean DS. That's because the financial minority that pulled all the strings out of that label stuck to them, just so we understand each other when we say what we mean and why we mean it. He goes on and on and on and on and on about how they stole and what they were doing, and I'm going to read it again. (Alexandra Jerkov: Financial base. ) Public finance flows have been controlled in a country which, unfortunately for Serbia and its citizens, they managed. So they've established control of public finances flows. What they did further, they say themselves – tenders and competitions were set, and then percentages were determined. (Alexandra Jerkov: Financial base. Well, you see, when it's done like that, it's a great shame, ladies and gentlemen. When this is the case, there is nothing left in the budget, and then from that budget, the state cannot take care of either the memorials or other important issues and needs, such as. It takes care of the children and young people you talk about here very often, such as the care of the socially endangered who are also very nice and often spoken of. There's no money for those things then. It was mentioned on several occasions today and in Vojvodina. Here, by the case, this very report, it seems quite random, says, these structures and schemes that were conducted by the yellow company were working on the ad hoc system, so, as to whom they were going, as they would say in the people, everywhere, except in Vojvodina. Here, and I'll read it to you. In Vojvodina, where to the most extent the financial independent province leadership of the party, and the same DS, created a continuous system that included the intermediation of individual municipality presidents, regional secretaries, directors and other public office holders. So, by chance, that very game, in this very day mentioned to Vojvodina, and I suppose because of that Vojvodina and those mentioned, the colleague felt the need to speak to us. That robbery was the most organized possible. You see, since this is not the case in Serbia today, we can deal with many good solutions, including those foreseen by this law. I believe that now it is becoming more and more clear to many, and to Ambassador Kenojcic, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40967	Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40968	Thank you. Propaganda can be stupid, as can be disgusted. It blinds people, narrows their eyes, so there's no sign of propaganda. All the defamation and repugnation of all the presidents of the DS, by Zoran Lutovac, via Dragan Sutanovac, Bojan Pajtic, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Zoran Djindjic, Dragoljub Micunović, so you can defam them, pinky, propaganda mud as much as you like, it exists in the world. Some people call it politics, honest people don't call it politics... Ivan Manojlovic: And in prison. ) The People's MP throws them into prison. Well, if you don't have enough power to send us all to jail now, when will you? What are you waiting for? But you can't, because you don't have anything to send the Democrats to jail for, because all illegal detentions fall to judgments at the appeals court, through Oliver Dulic to this day, Miroslav Crishan. The vengeful spirit is an evil spirit. Get rid of him. You can muddle the Democrats as much as you want, we're used to muddying us, slandering us and lying about us. If that makes you happy, you and your support, go ahead, but the illogical thing is that for six years we've been hearing about the terrible crimes of the president and the management of the DS, and no one writes a criminal report, file a criminal report, and make the judiciary do its job. This illogicality... (Blaža Knezevic: You won the election. ) The MP who casts elections proves that I am right. He can't stand the thought of having to spit on the Democrats in his head, and whenever you spit, you spit in the air, so suddenly, especially the MPs who were in the DS, I love you the most, the G17 and DS are the loudest among you. If you do, all of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40969	Comrade Jerkov, I beg you the next time I have two minutes to remind me. All right. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40970	Well, I really expected him to rephrase to me first of all that MP Kenojcic who had just thrown out of the bench bravely. If for nothing else, to justify and prove that courage in practice, and also for this story of applications. I think we heard the other day that he was dealing with these organs, or organs of that kind, but on these slanders, how did we hear the terrible inflations we've been carrying out, what, six years? (Gordana Comić: Twenty-eight years old) We didn't understand each other. November 2017, it's not 2012 so it's six years ago. It's been dating this DS report ever since. Democratic parties, listen to me carefully. So are those slanders and lies? Then, first of all, we need to have a good conversation with the people of the DS who put those slanders and those lies in the report. Here, for example, I think I've already read their names here, but these are Goran Paunović, Cedomir Vasic, Nenad Borović, Zivan Miric and Goran Radojevic. So, they claim that DS leaders, you counted them, I believe you counted them correctly, since 2006, then here, stealing, cheating, putting on percentages, setting up tenders and competitions. Radoslav Milojic: Who? That's what it says here. Are those lies? I'm not sure, I'm even very sure they're not. And you know why? Because the former president of the "yellow company", I now think of Dragan Sutanovac, at the moment he explained to the main Committee of the "yellow company" that they had suffered a disaster in the Belgrade elections and that he should now resign, literally said, "He who published this internal report," therefore, without questioning him, says: "He who published this, he shot me in the legs and shot our party in the artery. “ So he claims himself, and it is said that all of this is perfect, that all of it is true, but the problem is that somehow there is a media. Discuss among yourselves which of these people has made a mistake, whether Dragan Šutanovac, who thinks this is all true, whether those who have put that report and stand behind it by the name and last name, or you who now claim – no, that is not true. And then if we talk about criminal charges: under a) when it comes to them, as it comes, not to talk again – it is all political persecution but to let them work... (Radoslav Milojic: two and a half minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40971	You're bringing the end, colleague Orlic. (Radoslav Milojic: two and a half minutes. Arsic, two and a half minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40972	I will end this, Mr. Chairman, to do my job and under 2) to invite this gentleman, whose names I have just read, to help us, to help their Serbia, to help their country, and to give a nice explanation and materials based on which they have concluded that this has been stolen, as they claim to have been stolen. I think it was pretty clear to Kenojcic this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40973	Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40974	Thank you. As many times as you want, you will repeat all slanders and your interpretation of DS. (Vladimir Orlic: Whose report is this? ) You did not understand, you have my permission to do so, because the illogical nature of this propaganda is such that long ago it turned its blades towards its rivals to those who produce propaganda. I'm not giving permission to do that, I'm giving permission because I know that campaigns of this kind have nothing to stop. Never, none of the DS presidents will be prosecuted, because no one will file a criminal charges, because they didn't do anything to deserve any criminal charges. All and one. Zoran Lutovac, Bojan Pajetic, Dragan Djilas, Dragan Sutanovac, Boris Tadic, Zoran Djindjic and Dragoljub Micunovic. But the main sport in politics in Serbia is what is considered a policy – it hits the "yellows". Hit the "yellows", mud, slander, do anything, because he likes the people to hear that they're the main problem. Well, then, here you go. What's the problem and illogicality? If you're talking at the same time today about "yellow" not being there, that "yellow company," what do you say, your will is, they say everything about you, why so much insistence on propaganda, on slander? What's the matter with you? (Boban Birmancevic: Don't forget.) So you don't forget. "Sabre" so you don't forget, is that it? (Boban Birmancevic: Even so.) That too. "Sabre" so you don't forget, that's the problem? Radoslav Milojic: And there will be another one. () Sue with “Sablja, ” that is not the problem. (Alexander Martinovic: So sued people. Because you claim to file criminal charges. So it's not "Sabela"... (Boban Birmancevic: So sue us.) Why would they sue you? Why would they sue you? Why sue you, you accept the idea of DS, you work for Europe, you're friends with America, you work with Russia, you negotiate peace with Kosovo, you're in coalition with Ramush Haradinaj. Why would they sue you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40975	You're bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40976	When you do bad political work that we talked about in 1990, but to you, every ugly word about "yellows."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40977	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40978	Well, yes, they sued the Sabre for it. To be clear, that's what they've been suing for other things that were also phenomenal people have also sued the state's wages. It does not go out of the pocket of those whom you have numbered, nor the Lot, nor the Gilas, nor the Thadic, they are calm. I'm sure their pockets are fine. First of all, I'm sure it's good for Dragan Gilas' pocket. He was for some there "KRIKs", "BIRN's" said he had 25m euros worth of property. Then he repented, but now it's an ex-wise mind. What there is that he didn't report, God knows. His pocket is great, just like the pocket of another big and famous leader of the "yellow company" Jeremic. For him himself, he can't explain how many millions he has and why he got them. Their pockets are great. I didn't get into a situation like they did, that the state was paying for it. Well, he's paying. There was a lawsuit for that disastrous move with military pensions. In the “Sabreya, ” in which you mentioned, since you like to talk about freedom of the media, can God count how many different editorials have been closed down, the sheets have been shut down just because there was great freedom? All this is less important, much less important than stealing your own country. Once again, you answer the word and say propaganda. You're saying it's a lie. I have to repeat the question, who do you refer to as propaganda and lies? To the people of the DS who wrote this report? Has this report been written by people from the DS? Is this what the internal document of November 2017 says? Did they deal with propaganda against themselves because they had some strange need, some afternoon that even experts couldn't explain, so they still shared with their leadership? That's why the last major director of the "yellow company" the DS resigned, he says -- you published what you shouldn't have. I have to ask the question, if the mind changes by changing leaders, does Lutovac today claim that all of this is not true? It would be very interesting, not because of me, but because of the author of this report that Lutovac comes out with some guy's sentence – that's not true, I deny it. I'm very interested in what the authors of this report are going to say about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40979	Right on the replica, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40980	Thank you. Propaganda is a second name of the character of this ruling coalition and in the EU report, as a consequence of propaganda, the definition of a captive state appears. I'm not looking forward to it. That's our common problem. Propaganda means communication only with its support and with what people want to hear. It's legal, but it's not legitimate. When you establish propaganda as the basic way of communication in public space and language, then we all have a problem and that's why I release you at least one thing that I can free you from, and that's that whatever you want about propaganda, about DS, you're free to do it with whoever, whenever, wherever, with reports, with slanders, with half-truths, with attacks on whoever is president of DS, when it's no longer important, it's nothing more, with spits, with photos, with no photos. Whatever propaganda you come up with, you're free to do it because propaganda can be fought and crowned, only by not agreeing to participate in propaganda. The Democratic Party will never use propaganda for anyone and will not participate in propaganda. And you are free to do so and you are free to base your successes and your mistakes and everything that implies your express will. Only propaganda can bring us results and only in propaganda do we believe. Once in history, it wasn't good for a healthy society where propaganda was happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40981	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40982	What a smart man is ashamed of, Gilas's tenants are proud of it. It is amazing that someone with so much pride mentions the action “Sabela. ” (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure, colleague? ) Article 27. Let's remind ourselves for a while that she's in that action of Sabela, that the dominants have arrested 14,000 people. Now says Gordana Comic, that if anyone thinks that's why they're guilty and responsible, someone should sue them. Well, there are lawsuits, of course, there are criminal charges, but there are still a lot of yours in the prosecutions of those chosen, in time, if you remember from Dusan Petrovic's cabinet. We haven't forgotten that, you know. In 2003, since you mention who killed whom, you love to say so, I tell you quite frankly, you killed your prime minister. And, the verdict was reached, she got a verdict from Nata Mesarevic, you remember all of it, and we initiated here, not just now, but before we were in parliament, we initiated to establish a political background and all the details regarding that murder. Now we've proposed a survey committee, but you won't, because you don't want the truth. When, and God will give, it will happen, restore the procedure to the Legion and to Zvezdan Jovanovic, then that truth will completely come out. Then you'll see what part of the mob killed his mob boss. Then you'll see who was involved. And, Mrs. Comic, if no one is suffering because of this "Sabbe" action, let me tell you that only last year 14 million dinars from the state budget, from the pockets of Serbian citizens, were paid to people who were neither guilty nor obliged to be arrested in the "Sabbe" action, because you were then a force, because you were bringing in troops, special forces under full equipment, in fear we entered the National Assembly, because you closed the sessions of the National Assembly, because you wanted to shut down and hide your shame and shame from the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40983	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The word has the people's messenger Vladimir Orlic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40984	Propaganda is a very interesting subject, I have to admit. I didn't expect to get a direct answer from Mrs. Komic, that report, that's a lie and that's propaganda. It's clear why you can't say that. Everyone knows very well, best they do on the other side of the hall that this is their report. I didn't make it up, and I didn't write these formulations, and I didn't write them, and I didn't write them, and I didn't write them, and I didn't write them, and I didn't write them, and I didn't write them, and I didn't write them, and I didn't That's why they can't give an answer to that kind of thing, so I'm saying, they won't even give it up to Mr. Lutovac. Speaking of which, there must be propaganda and that information, and it has to do with the foreign policy we're running, which we copied from Lutovac and the others, that he decided to avoid any meeting with a German official, so he lied about going to sea. It's probably propaganda, because I think there's a whole case of actors present that didn't seem to be doing very well on that occasion. But propaganda certainly is not that, among other things, with Germany, as with other countries that are important not only politically but also as investors in Serbia, we have the best possible relations. And as a result of these relations, we have, well, almost, 50,000 jobs in Serbia. Is that propaganda? I wouldn't say it was propaganda. There's living evidence in the form of people going to work every day on account of that and these results. Further, propaganda says the captured state, the European Commission's report on Serbia. Does it say anything? I'm not sure that's what it says. Until I see a report saying that Serbia is a captive country, and it comes from the European Commission, I will be free to say that these claims are propaganda. But on the subject of what seems to have been misunderstood by some, that we don't care about a man when he's no longer president of a yellow company, that it's only important to us as long as it is. Here, let me get past all the misunderstandings. It is also very important for us today to determine from where the former director of the yellow company Sutanovac, who resigned because of this report, to remind you, from where he received a return pasture, from where that penthouse, which is already worth 300,000 euros on it, from where he received 300,000 euros in savings, when all of this, imagine, was obtained on the basis of the ministerial or parliamentary salary. I'm sure as soon as I've literally said what I've just said from word to word it says in the court's judgment, it can't be propaganda. It can only be a fact-finding state based on some valid data and documents, as I probably believe, I was sure of it, treated and managed by that body DS when these results on thefts, about the installation for percent put into its report. I'm sure they have very good reasons and sources on which they wrote it, that it's not propaganda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-25-0.u40985	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 82 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
