ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33666	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into their parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Marija Obradović, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Dubravka Filipovski, Elvira Kovac, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Aleksandar Stevanović, Aleksandar Seselj, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts from points 1 to 13 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the sittings of Alexander Vulin, Defence Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Aleksandar Zivkovic and Mr. Mr. Bojan Jocic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Bratislava Gasic, Director of BIA, Dr. Nenad Miloradović, Deputy Minister of Material Resources at the Ministry of Defence, Milan Mojsilović, Deputy Minister of Defence Policy at the Ministry of Defence, Zoran Lazić, Secretary of Defence, General Major General Bojan Zrnić, Head of Defence Technology at the Ministry of Defence, General Major General Mladen Vurun, Rector of Defence, Brigadier General Mile Jelić, Chief of Staff at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Milan Rankovic, Head of International Military Cooperation at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Dragan Dragan Kotarlić, Head of Defence Administration at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Slobodan Kisić, General Secretary of Defence, Colonel Miso Krgović, Head of the Department of International Defence at the Ministry of Defence of Defence, Colonels, Colonel of Defence of Defence, Colonel Miško Krgović and Head of Defence of Defence of Defence of the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, Colonel of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 to 13, and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs (Article 96(4)). Rules of Procedure. ) pursuant to Article 157(2) of Article 170(1) and Article 192(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018; Proposal for a decision on the participation of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2018; Proposal for a Law on Military Education; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Serbian Army; Proposal for a Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other powers of defence in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligation of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the European Union and the Republic of Serbia on the Law on the European Union's and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33667	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, we have a set of six laws relating to the life and work of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, one that is very important for the daily and successful functioning of the BIA, two decisions relating to the engagement of the Republic of Serbia Army in peacekeeping missions, and there are four laws confirming the agreement with us friendly countries. The involvement of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in UN and EU multinational operations is indeed a very important element of our foreign policy. By participating in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia shows that it is an active factor in preserving international peace and security and thus strengthens its reputation in the international environment. In this way, the Serbian Army also strengthens its own defence capacities and protects national security. The proposal for an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018 did not plan to significantly increase the existing engagement of the Serbian Army outside our borders, but rather retain the achieved and existing level of engagement. This would mean that in 2018 we planned to continue our engagement in five UN-led peacekeeping missions in Congo, Cyprus, Lebanon, the Middle East and the Central African Republic, as well as four multinational operations under EU command, two in Somalia, one in the Central African Republic and one in Mali. The Republic of Serbia has concluded with the UN a Memorandum of Understanding and Contribution to the stand-by arrangement system, where, if necessary, the Republic of Serbia would be invited by the UN to make its contribution. Of course, we reserve the right to give each of the concrete questions a decision that does not always have to be positive, but simply as the conditions require and how this country's policy dictates. The proposal for an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018 contains one EU crisis management operation, in which the Serbian Army has not participated so far, and this is an operation in the Mediterranean. This is very important to us, as this operation aims to mitigate the consequences and solve the migration crisis in Europe. As you know, we are one of the countries affected by the consequences of the migrant crisis, and that is why it is very good for us to be where the migrant crisis is happening and to know in advance what awaits us and what we are actually fighting with. According to the 20 UN and EU multinational operations mentioned in 2018, the engagement of our members at the same level has been planned in the same year. We are currently participating with 328 members, 38 of whom are female. In five peacekeeping operations, 306 members were hired, and in four peacekeeping operations, under the control of the EU, a total of 22 members. All these operations also require financial resources, two billion 337 million and 72 thousand dinars in 2018. From that point on, the Department of Defense has already provided the funds needed from the budget, with the fact that I want you to know that the UN is paying 515 million 474 thousand dinars as its contribution to the functioning of our peacekeeping missions. The draft law on military education is of great importance to us. As we educate future officers, future officers, so will our army. The Law on Military Schools and Military Research Institutions was passed in 1994 and we are working according to its provisions. That is why we need the Law on Military Education, in order to complete the process of harmonisation of regulations and military school institutions could become an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia by adopting this regulation governing the specificities of military education. They're just not right now. In this way, the problems that arise in the application of existing laws would also be addressed, would contribute to legal certainty, certainty and resolve issues related to the status, organisation and operation of military school institutions, thus making normative full military education an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. In front of you and your attention, I would also like to recommend the draft laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army of Serbia. They are the result of previous analyses in the application of the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army, which was adopted in 2007, with amendments and additions adopted in 2009 and 2015. The adoption of the amendments would ensure a more efficient functioning of the defence system, the performance of functions and tasks of the Serbian Army. We have paid particular attention to provisions relating to improving the material position of professional members of the military and raising their standards. For these laws, an extensive public debate was conducted under the law, under which round tables were held in Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade. In addition to the many changes I recommend to your attention, I will only give you a few of the shortest, so we have foreseen that reporting in the area of planning preparations for defence, proposed that an annual report on the state of defence preparations be carried out before the relevant assembly committee to discuss the report. It is proposed that classified data relating to the defence system be specifically processed and that people who can decide and who can work with them be very careful who they are. We also envisaged the establishment of a budget fund to provide means to improve search and rescue services, military aircraft and participation in a search and rescue system for the needs of civil aviation. Also, as particularly significant, we have specified the way and contents of the records of the deceased, missing, wounded, captured and murdered members of the armed forces who will lead and run the Ministry of Defense. As you know, our history is the history of wars, and very rarely we can say that we know every name and that we know everything about those who fought for our country. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Army regulates the deployment of professional members of the Serbian Army, if necessary of service to another state body or legal person, the reference to work abroad to implement obligations, the possibility of hiring professional military persons in the structures of international organisations of regional initiatives, conditions for the termination of service during the wartime, the harmonisation of the provisions governing salaries and other monetary incomes, the introduction of a state of peace in service, the raising of the age limit to 43 years of life create more favourable conditions for a subordinate who has acquired appropriate higher education to be promoted to the act of supporters, not even to tell you how important this option is for a significant part of our army. It also provides a more favourable position for professional soldiers, officers and officers at Serbia's military service for a certain period of time by raising the age limit to which a working contract can be renewed to 53 years of life, and for individual formation posts or certain specialities until the conditions for retirement are met, according to the rules governing pension and disability insurance. This is one of the more important things that we will discuss in more important days, because it allows certain professional arrangements, certain parts of our army to remain in the army from the beginning to the end, that they have no fear of their existence, that they have no fear of leaving the army because of the regulations, but that they will be able to stay until the end, that the system takes care of them. Also regulated are the powers of military police officers to apply police measures and actions and police powers in line with the powers of police officers, provided for by the Police Act. It has also been prescribed closer to settling as a state of service, and for the purpose of harmonising with the provisions of the Public Sector Payments System Act, provisions governing salaries and other monetary incomes in Serbia's military are specified. It is also predicted that a Sanitary Service officer and a teacher's call to serve at the University of Defence may, with his consent, extend the service in Serbia's military to 65 years of life. In this way, we've leveled with their fellow citizens and to be very simple to explain, it's when you have a top VMA surgeon or top lecturer at the Military Academy, and because he's an officer and because he's using an unfettered internship, he's been retired for 50 years, and then instead of continuing to work for an institution that trained him, which has allowed him to gain knowledge and experience, he's going somewhere further and working as a pensioner at a private clinic or at some private university. We want to keep these people to ourselves and their experience. The proposal for a law on the production and transport of arms and military equipment is also one of the essential laws. An important law on this area was passed in 1996 and regulates the production and transport of weapons and military equipment in the country as a matter of general interest. The main reasons for the adoption of the new law are the establishment of a stable control mechanism in the production and transport of arms and military equipment. Among other things, there is a defined condition and way of forming a group of Serbia's defence industry, which is of strategic importance to our society. The proposed law creates assumptions that the basic objective of controlling the production and transport of arms and military equipment is met, in order to protect the defence, security, economic and external political interests of the Republic of Serbia, its international credibility and integrity, as well as further development of the defence technological and industrial bases of the Republic of Serbia. What was often said in public, sometimes with good intentions, sometimes without good intentions, but right at the beginning of our debate, I want to explain. Serbia's defence industry is not privatised. Its recapitalisation will be possible, up to 49% of the value of the capital, but 51% will always remain owned by the Serbian state. The aim of forming a group of Serbia's defence industry is to establish a strong and defence industry that is able to produce in the first place everything Serbia's military needs, to maintain itself, to be competitive on the foreign market, which will contribute to the overall efforts to revive the production and economy of the Republic of Serbia and increase our country's GDP. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia has been regulated by the applicable law in this area, which has not been amended since 2009. That is why we have decided to amend the law, since it is necessary to prescribe a more effective preparation and to implement the National Assembly decision on the use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and other defence forces in accordance with constitutional powers. Instead of re-approval every year by the National Assembly of Serbia and other defence forces in the same, unchanged multinational operations, it is predicted that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, will decide on participation in multinational operations that would include all multinational operations involving military members and other defence forces or could be directed to them on the basis of contracts already concluded, the duration of the term of the multinational operation. The National Assembly decides which multinational operations could be referred to by members of the Serbian Army and determine the total number of members of the Serbian Army who can be engaged in them. The decision shall be valid until the term of office or eventually until the withdrawal of a member of the Serbian Army prior to the end of the term of office of a specific multinational operation. The government has an obligation to adopt a report on the implementation of the annual realisation plan for the previous year in the first quarter of the current year and inform the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. If a mission mandate is established in certain provisions contrary to the defined principles of use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, it is necessary to establish national restrictions for the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in a specific mission. This is conditioned not only by political but also by security reasons. National restrictions are established in order to operationalise the National Assembly's decision and refer exclusively to a specific specific mission, not to the use of Serbia's military outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia in the manner defined in Article 140. The Constitution. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on military, labour and material obligations aim to specify the responsibilities of the Ministry of Defence and its territorial authorities in which military, labour and material obligations are part of the work. Key newspapers are to introduce obligations to the authorities of autonomous provinces and bodies of local self-government units to provide appropriate technical and spatial conditions for the purposes of defence enforcement. A courier-calling system is being introduced for the purpose of calling on the obligor, the Commission's work is being expanded, which, in addition to assessing the capacity to perform military service, also gives an assessment of the capacity for persons in reserve. It is prescribed that a military official deployed to the BIA does not call for a military exercise. The duration of training of passive reserve members shall be specified, approved by recruits or persons in the reserve composition of stay abroad for a period of six months to be issued by the competent territorial authority. An amendment to the provision shall be made when no consent is given to the military official for discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, etc. It is before you and your attention I recommend it except for the laws relating to the life and work of the Serbian Army and the law relating to the functioning of the BIA. Therefore, the Law amending and supplementing the BIA Act is necessary in order to preserve the existing working legal status of members of the Agency and to comply with the new laws adopted, the Law on the Police which entered into force on 5 February 2016 and the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, which is applied to state bodies which, in particular, regulates salaries and other receipts as from 1 January 2018. The provisions of Article 20 shall apply. The BIA Act stipulates that the rights and duties, responsibilities based on working relations to members of the Agency, are subject to the rules applicable to workers of the Ministry of Interior, which are prescribed by the applicable Police Act. However, a new Police Act has been reorganised by certain legal institutes in a new way by the rights and responsibilities based on work in relation to the current Police Act, especially in the work relating to the establishment of a working relationship, the system has divided the jobs of police officers, the criteria for the schedule of jobs, career advancement of police officers, transfer, calling, evaluation, salary, coefficient and other institutes. For these reasons, the new Police Act is responsible for the Agency, taking into account its very specific nature as a consequence of the laws of established tasks, jobs and powers and necessary amendments to the BIA Act to preserve the organisational structure, specificity of working status and the position of members of the Agency in order to ensure the effective, proper and legal functioning and operation of the Single System of the Agency. You also have proposals for a law on the confirmation of international contracts. First, there is the Memorandum of Understanding with the Government of the State of Israel, which was signed on 24 July 2017 in Tel Aviv. The entry into force of that Memorandum establishes a legal basis for the co-operation of the governments of the two States and their authorised authorities on matters of military, defence and defence-industry co-operation for which the parties are interested. The Memorandum of Understanding between the two governments whose confirmation is proposed by this law sets out basic objectives, principles on which war, defence and defence-industry co-operation between the governments of the two countries, namely their authorised bodies, the Ministry of Defence, will be based, with a view to contributing to the development of the two countries' overall bilateral relations as well as peace and security. You also have a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece on co-operation within the Athens Multinational, Strategic and Maritime Coordination Centre. The entry into force of the memorandum establishes a legal basis for co-operation between the governments of Serbia and Greece and their authorised authorities within the framework of the Athens Multinational, Strategic and Maritime Co-ordination Centre in the area of transport for which the parties agreed are interested. On relations between Greece and Serbia, there is no need to waste words and the friendly attitude the Government of the Republic of Greece has towards us but also the attitude that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has towards Greece. You are also facing a memorandum with Republika Srpska's governments on air co-operation. It was signed in Belgrade on 10 November 2017. During 2016, there was a need to conclude a contract that would provide a legal basis for co-operation between the two governments, but directly and directly through the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia with the helicopter service of the Republika Srpska government. In this way, co-operation would be reflected among other things in the exchange of documentation and equipment, training and training of pilots, the engagement of professional and aircraft personnel, as well as the provision of maintenance and remonting services of helicopters and helicopter engines. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, there is also an agreement with the Government of Romania on defence co-operation signed on 4 December 2017 and is a general contract on co-operation in the area of defence, which provides a legal basis for bilateral co-operation in all areas for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Romania, i.e. their defence ministries, is interested. So far, the agreement between the federal government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the government of Romania on military co-operation signed in Belgrade on 27 October 1997 has been in force. I would like to stress that co-operation in the area of defence with Romania can be seen as very good with the possibility of further intensifying and improving it, and that in order to achieve all forms of co-operation, it is primarily necessary to establish a legal framework for co-operation that is operationalised by the adoption of proposed laws on the validation of a bilateral intergovernmental agreement. Dear People's MPs, I call on you to support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence and to further regulate the proposed laws and advance the defence system in all its segments as well as the work of the BIA, but also to fulfil our international obligations of concluded contracts and continue our engagement in multinational operations this year by adopting the proposed laws and decisions. I thank you for your attention and great patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33668	I thank Minister Voulina. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word is by the MP Mr Igor Becic, president of the Security Control Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33669	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, as chairman of the Security Control Committee, I would like to refer to a few facts regarding the proposed amendments to the BIA Act. In this regard, the proposal for a law has led to some unfounded criticism in the public, and I must therefore stress that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Law is a harmonisation of the existing labour status of members of the Agency with the adopted new Law on Police which has already entered into force and the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, whose application to the State Authorities is governed by special law, salaries and other receipts provided for from 1 January 2019. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would refer to what is the essence of the proposed law. The security-information agency was educated as a special organisation with the property of the legal person of the BIA Act, which was adopted in 2002. According to the provisions of this applicable BIA law, rights, responsibilities and responsibilities under the working relationship of a member of the Agency apply the rules applicable to workers of the Ministry of Interior, which are prescribed by the applicable Police Act. This reference provision had a legal basis and a meaning when the Agency was established in 2002. As regards the rights, duties, responsibilities based on the working relationship of the provision of the law at the time could also be applied to the Agency because they enabled the Agency to respect the specificity of the Agency as a state authority. The Police Act, which was passed in 2005, allowed the Agency to comply with sublaws under the law. However, the new Police Act, 2016, also adopted a new way of regulating the area. The new law introduced a paper on job-sharing, job-sharing systems, job-scheduling criteria, career progress by civil servants, transfer, calling, evaluation and so on. The need to bring and amend and supplement the existing BIA Act has also emerged. This should take into account the specificity of the BIA arising from the legislative provisions which set out tasks based on the powers of the BIA and the necessary amendment and addition of the BIA Act, preserve the organisational structure, the specificity of the employment relationship and the position of the members of the Agency, with a view to effective and proper functioning and work within the Single System of the Agency. Namely, the Agency shall have the status of a special organisation in the system of state administration and the property of a legal person in accordance with the law. What is very important is that it is part of the unique security intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia. The specificity of the Agency is due to the competence, the tasks of authority of the Agency prescribed by law. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law are the only way to regulate a specific organisational structure, working status and the position of members of the Agency. These changes are necessary in order for the Agency to carry out its law of prescribed competences in the area of protection of the national security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. If we carefully read the bill before us, we will see that the proposed solution does not change the working status of members of the Agency, the proposed solutions allow the Agency to regulate its working relations legally, relying on the Police Act to the extent necessary. Also, new solutions do not give any greater rights to the Agency's manager than those held by the Agency's directors until 2002 and to this day. On the contrary, only these questions are governed by the parent law, unlike the previous period, when the law that we are changing contained referring norms and when these questions were regulated by other laws. The amendments and additions to the Act shall be more precisely defined and the contents of the Regulation on the internal arrangements and systematization of the posts of the Agency bearing the designation of secrecy and in accordance with the laws to which this area is governed. The proposed norm, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Administration, which regulates the internal organisation and the regulation of the authorities of the State Administration, prescribes acts on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in a special organisation such as the BIA, which is subject to the government's consent. It proposes amendments and additions to the BIA Act, introduces provisions that are closer to regulating security checks in employment. The draft law sets out the procedure which enables the application and the procedure to be complied with by the law. This amendment to the existing law was also conditioned by the adoption of a new Police Act. Namely, the nature of the operations carried out by the Agency itself shall carry out the requirements and other procedures for the security verification of candidates and employment in the Agency. The proposed amendments and additions shall specify this procedure in order to maintain the existing procedure applied by the Agency and which is in line with the legal arrangements for the collection, processing and protection of personal data. (President: I thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm finishing this sentence. Allowing the Agency to employ staff without mandatory competition is an respect for the specific nature of the operations carried out by the Agency. Of course, this provision does not mean introducing a new rule and abolishing a public competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33670	Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is expressing its absolute opposition that the Serbian Army participates in any of these so-called so-called so-called armies. UN or EU peacekeeping missions. This is a rare opportunity for us to discuss a set of laws on the military that are cosmetics, to actually discuss the overall state of our army. Why would our soldiers participate in these peace missions? What do you get? To jump our reputation in someone's eyes? No, it's just a threat here that they're threatening to wrong their souls about some poor thing in African countries that is rebelling over the difficult conditions of life or to strengthen themselves in power by some new usurper, which represents this training of security forces in some of these countries. Why would our soldiers go to fight pirates in the Indian Ocean? What did those pirates do to us? Why did these people become pirates? Because someone destroyed their country. Who's that? We all know who that is. And now we're going there to stop the piratery. Whoever is causing a civil war in Somalia, who is constantly meddling in this war, should now take care of the pirates. Why would our soldiers put themselves at risk? After all, if it's about sailors, it's not exactly what we're talking about here, we need to nurse our navy when one day we go out to the Serbian sea again, that we have a ready-made navy for the ships we're going to get. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in our army is still not well. All Dosmanian regimes have led the army into a catastrophic situation. I don't think that the problem with professionalising the Army, I even think that professionalization is good, but provided that all combat units are made up of specialists, from people who are first extremely medically capable of military service and who train for military service every day, and not to find some of them who, half the working days of the year, translate into sick leave. Gentlemen, you can't do that. No professional military service was introduced to establish a military union immediately. The union can't be in the military and the police. These are so specific social organisations to apply direct force that absolutely there can be no talk of union organisation because union organisation also means politicisation. The union in the military and the police must be abolished. What else have they done to the domania? Tendeciously they went, I don't know if they did it all the way, but mass military service distanced people with military experience. It was a warrant from the West to do it. Many people have gone to early retirement, many of them have been prominent commanders in the war, and any one of them is capable of military service should be allowed to return. Let's not be formalists. The Duke of Traveler, I don't know what year the Chief of Staff was, and they were driving him in a wheelchair and carrying him over Albania, but he was Chief of Staff, as a capable officer. We must not send precious officers into retirement even when they meet the legal requirements, if they do not wish. Dear officers, these are troops officers, commanders of combat units. You're talking about an underprivileged internship here, and you say, "Doctors at the Military Academy have an unfettered job experience." Why? Why would anyone in the military service have an unfettered job experience if they weren't in a combat unit? Only those who are in the combat unit, from officers to officers, to soldiers – the unfettered job, and the one who works eight hours a day office work, what is he going to do with an unfettered job, let him do a full-time job. Let the benefit of the work experience be a privilege for soldiers, police officers, miners, and some other work, who actually burns on extremely dangerous jobs, not for the nature of employment in a particular state institution, followed by a well-fused job experience. Ladies and gentlemen, our army has been deliberately and deliberately destroyed. Our weapons have also been destroyed, under the pretext that it's out of date. Can one tank grow old? It can be an offensive weapon. Can a tank grow old as a defense weapon? He can't. We had those good old-fashioned tanks, that's T-36, that had an extraordinary cannon, buried in the ground, and fought with all its might, as St. Elijah beats. And it was supposed to be destroyed, it was supposed to be given to the Americans for free to melt. But someday someone would have to bear the responsibility of why it was done. It's not an officer's fault, it's the fault of people who were defence ministers in the previous period and governments in the previous period and heads of state in the previous period. We, gentlemen, don't have the right strategy for folk defense. In our national defense strategy, we have fictitious opponents and this is no military secret, because everyone knows it. You may have declared it a military secret, but nowhere in our national defence strategy is the danger of a NATO pact or the way we react to the new aggression of the NATO Pact. We have a capable army to deal with every neighboring country. We are not at risk of these neighbouring countries, but the dangers of the NATO pact remain above our heads. Imagine if a new blackmail comes -- either give up Kosovo or we'll bomb you again, or we'll give up Republika Srpska, or we'll bomb you again, or you can either set off the left bank of the Danube in Bacakh or bomb you again? Do we have an answer for that? In this regard, in the case of a new NATO aggression, our strength is much less than it was in 1999. In 1999, we had a powerful, powerful army, extraordinary officers, good soldiers, and we didn't have, however, the most modern weaponry, especially for anti-aircraft combat, but the situation in the army was perfect. Is the situation that good today? I'm not sure. Imagine, gentlemen, officers and Mr. Secretary of Defense, that it should happen to us at some point that the Shiparis hit northern Kosovo with all their potentials, that the Croats hit the left bank of Backa and that the Croats and Muslims hit Brcko together? Do we have an answer for that? God forbid we do, but I don't think so. Our intelligence knows that all of you, members of the General Staff, should have known that the Croats were training four brigades for possible aggression on the left bank of the Danube. What's their plan? To suddenly strike, force the Danube, take up more territories than they ask for, and then to show up NATO, the EU, America, immediately interrupt wartime acts, cease fire, the negotiating table, and we lose a hundred square miles or 10,000 acres of the left coast of the Danube, in fact 11,000 hectares, because they offer 1,000 in return. Do we have an answer for that? We have, but it is not our authority to mature to the knowledge that it is the only answer and that we must provide it as soon as possible for preventive reasons. The answer is the abandonment of neutrality and direct membership in the ODKB and all political military and economic agreements with Russia. From the Russian base on our territory, not for so many years that the government hesitates to give them diplomatic status in one centre, humanitarian character, that there are only a dozen, twenty employees and it's more a matter of prestige, whether they will have diplomatic status than it means anything special, but the government insists on not giving. NATO has received all the privileges of moving around Serbia's territory. Is it humiliating to you, gentlemen officers, that you have a NATO office in General Staff? Is that in the Department of Defense or General Staff's quarters? You're in the same place now. I haven't been in there yet, I haven't gotten in from other duties, and I'm gonna have to go there for a while. I hope you'll welcome me, won't you? That NATO officers sit at the headquarters of headquarters of the Supreme Command and familiarize with you, hi Jovo, hi Bozo, hi Marco, hi Peter, a little bit and they can't get into our system. We can't let that happen. Nicely, if we have to have a NATO representation and if we have a representative office with them, then a nice special building in Belgrade stands the inscription "NATO Representation in Serbia", not to take your soul on the spot. They do not take your soul, your soul, and it is not so important, the soul of the Serbian people. Training must be much more quality when it comes to professional soldiers. Training must be performed continuously, and we have at least the fullness of the officers in the hull. When I served the army, it was quite a long time ago, I was in an elite unit and a third of the military deadline we were actually doing nothing. I hope not today, I hope that today professionals are doing something within their working day, and they should be doing it all the time, because they need to be the healthiest. In the competitions for the reception of soldiers, the most healthy are accepted in the professional service. I agree, if they're good and able to stay in the army for the rest of the working century. If they're not for special forces, they are for other units. After 20 years of service in the army and an ordinary soldier deserves an act. Right? I don't mind if they stay for the rest of the working century in the military, but go through this system of training that goes on and on, because our one brigade is now in a position to replace the division and more than that. What are we gonna do with the reserves? Slowly, the reserve is due to military obligations. Right? That was 65 years old, and now it's 60, as far as I know. What are we gonna do about it? You know, my experience is that many of those trainings that are being introduced into regular military service are forgotten, but young people need to know basic things – to handle a rifle, to handle a hand grenade, and therefore we have to return to high school subject to defence and protection, and in primary schools first aid in both the case of war and in the case of natural disasters and other adverse situations that threaten society as a whole. So, guys in high school learn the basics. As far as digging the law, digging it, they learn it on the front line in a week or ten days or the dead learn to bury themselves. All of us, when we were serving the army, avoided burying ourselves as deeply as possible. Although, I wasn't in the infantry, so they didn't ask us to do it, but all of us somehow come on one less shovel, so somehow we're blown away, but when the thunder comes, everybody learns. It's the experience of this war. Anyone who served before had to have some training for at least a week when he came to the front. When he's dressed well and his life is at stake, then he knows and then his brain works. If you're exhausting him in there by collecting cigarette butts on the Cassan circle, then it's murderous. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't do this without a military alliance with Russia. We only need the military alliance for one thing, to protect us from NATO. Such a strong military alliance that Russia defends Serbia's territory as Russia's territory, including the integration of our army into common. So, our individuals remain comprehensive units, of course, that the markings on the uniform plant "Republic of Serbia" and the coat of arms are national and the rest should be integrated. Why not if it guarantees protection? There's nothing else to guarantee. Next, there's one more thing to think about. Since our army is professional and limited by number, very limited to the former, we must create volunteer units. A Chetnic organization must be restored and it must be a state organisation, not just an initiative of people who have done this from ideological or political differences, but a state Chetnic organization, and we have a historical experience that is valuable. Remember World War I. The entire General Staff made a terrible mistake, the Serbian General Staff, because he was convinced that the attack by Austro-Hungarian would follow through Sava and Danube. The Austrians took out some units there, a bit of tampering either, and our army was directed to crash. They're going over the Drina. And who welcomed them? Chetniks. Excavate the trenches, establish themselves, and keep them for hours, for days. They've been held back long enough for the armies to reroute, so that massive army machinery can take a new course. And if they weren't there, how far would the aggressor get? A lot further than it is. So we have to have one power that will immediately rise to our feet the same night you say – Croats hit over the Danube. Or, hit Muslims and Croats together on Brcko. Or, hit the Shipari in northern Kosovo. Of course, you need an army, so you need to have fast-developed volunteering, because no one fights better than one who, by his will, from patriotism, from nationalism, goes into battle. If there's anyone who needs to be forced to fight, there's no real fighter. That's the point. What else is there to do? We need to keep the dedicated industry fully in the hands of the state. There must be no privatisation of 49% and no foreign capital should enter, especially from potentially hostile countries. What countries are potentially hostile? All NATO member states. They're all potentially hostile. Our peoples are not hostile. The Greek people went out into the streets and stoned NATO units. The Macedonian people too. But the regimes were hostile because they let NATO pass. Not at times, but they let go. As far as the secret police are concerned, we must return the old name to the Security and Information Agency – State Security Service. The agency is not in the spirit of Serbian. The agency is something else in Serbian – an agency for renting women for business escorts or travel agencies, etc. We need to think about rebuilding the Special Operations Unit. Every serious state in the world has a secret police force that owns a special op unit. I mean, there's been a lot of negative experiences before. But we have to have a few special police units, so it's not all against one, so that the command of that one bribed enemy, as it happened in 2000. On October 5th, a set of general police tops was bribed. (President: Thank you, Dr. Seselj. There's one more thing to say, just about the guard. The Guard must not serve as an exerciser. They're not circus guys. The Guard must be the most capable special unit trained for various martial arts in a close battle and for all the military facts necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33672	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. I just let Dr. Seselj finish the thought and sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33673	I want to thank you for your remarks and for your careful reading of this extensive material. I want to say, that our public would know, in no peace operation, the Serbian Army is involved in any conflict, nor is there a mission to impose peace. She has an exclusive mission to preserve peace. We don't have a fighting band anywhere. It's mostly either staff officers, or it's the safety of our units, and, of course, the largest number is the Sanitary Officers and the ones who are working on the treatment. As you know, let's say, in the Central African Republic, we have a two-level Polish hospital, which is truly highly appreciated by all the international factors, everyone who is there and insists on being treated right there, with our doctors, and it is really an honor to our army. That's why I think it's good to continue with that kind of practice. We will certainly continue with such practice. In addition, as you know, the Serbian Army has three missions -- one is the defence of the country, the other is participation in peacekeeping operations, and the third is assistance to civil authorities in the event of natural disasters, disasters, etc. When we talk about doctors, VMA and even military doctors at all, they have an obligation and to practice with weapons and to keep going for the shooting, everything that any of their colleagues who are not a doctor and is an officer do. Amongst other things, that's why they've got an unfettered job experience. But the benefits of a work internship are not decided on by the body in which they are located. It's not the police or the military that can decide who has an underprivileged job internship, but the competent authority of the PIO Fund and the medical work, at the time, who can have an unfettered job experience and for what reasons. I think we all share the satisfaction of this decision together so that we can save the best, that we can keep them to the end, that they don't leave right away. You're expressing a certain skepticism when it comes to any form of privatisation, but it also needs to be preserved then by that doctor and this surgeon and that professor so he doesn't go anywhere he's not trained to go, not to go to a private clinic when he can work on VMA. He couldn't have done it by now. Legally, he couldn't. You could have extended his retirement to two years, by a minister's decision, and that's it. And after that, a healthy man, who is only in full strength, who has just completed all the specializations and has experience, has passed everything, you have to get him out of there. That's too bad. I'm glad you noticed that it's good, and it is, indeed, not even a bit cosmetic, it's a fundamental change, which now our soldiers will be able to stay until the end of the contract, which they will be able to stay until retirement. So far, he's in the army, say, at the age of 20, becoming our soldier, going through everything he needs to go through, and at 40, he's almost, he needs to leave the army. You trained him, he spent 20 years of his life, he gave you the best years, and now you say – On the street. It's bad for the man, but bad for the army structure and bad for the army itself. You can't find a man like that on the street. You know, it's possible to find her at the employment service. You can find various educational profiles looking for work, but go find the tank driver. Find the gunman. There's no such thing at the National Employment Service. You must train him, you must not lose him, in the end line. Serbia's army always like any army, always playing all possible scenarios, about which it may not be made public, but it always thinks about everything. I expect the contribution of all the MPs of the people, of course. We have launched a public debate on the defence strategy, two important documents, a defence strategy and a national security strategy, and I expect the contribution of all MPs to say that when these important documents are made before they come to parliament, while they are still in the public debate phase. Yes, our army has been systematically and systematically destroyed. I'll give you one brief example, and I'm sure we'll talk about it during the session. It's been destroyed. 500 tanks and hoodies melted. We could've done anything with them, even sold them, if nothing else, if we couldn't think of anything smarter, we could've at least sold them, we melted them, and we could've used them for all kinds of other things, of course. Training is one of the key things in every army and to the extent that we have successful training, to the extent that we are able to deal with constantly new challenges, we are so successful or so unsuccessful, and that's something that really matters in the military. We're talking about one of the laws we're going to deal with here and regulate and reserve, regulate and military training of civilians. We are intensively talking to the Ministry of Education which are objects, in which ways we could provide certain knowledge for which a wider circle should be trained for situations that may arise. So we're working on it right now, and that's one of the things that this ministry immediately started working, as soon as we started working on this composition. In terms of capitalisation, not privatisation, capitalisation, 49% is not privatisation, privatisation is 51%, this is capitalisation. There is, you will see in the law, there is a very serious mechanism that can be a potential investor. Finally, when this happens, the Ministry of Defence must propose it to the government, and only then must the government adopt it. So you can't just buy, you can't buy on the market. It's not on the market, it's not a car. He can't come to you now, I don't know, sorry about the case, Bedget Pacolli, come and buy, he can't buy. He can't buy because he wouldn't pass security, he can't because he wouldn't pass security checks, he can't pass. (Vojislav Seselj: And then they would rally – it is discrimination. No, security checks are like that, and I'm sure he could hardly buy something like that. So he can't. He's taking very good care of it. You have now, what you have set an example of the Guard. The reorganisation of our units is under way and a different approach is being considered, and when it comes to the Guard, in terms of the combat unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33674	Thank you, Minister Vulin. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33675	Replica. I have far less time than a minister. I'll just look at two questions. The concept of the Military Academy is an old-fashioned, old-fashioned concept. In the event of a war, every hospital, every home of our health must have a military function. All our doctors studying at medical schools must have one, two or three items of military medicine, especially military surgery, because it is the most needed. So we should all have that elemental knowledge, and then some of them can get extra through specialization. But why do you even get the Military Medical Academy out of the normal health care system? She needs to go back there. Any doctor who acquires a certain rank may be a spare officer of a certain rank, why not. He's not expected to dig trenches and not send them to training. If they're doctors, then they need to heal, bandage the wounds, operate, cut their legs, arms, etc., what's going on in the war. Let's not play with doctors. It takes a health care system to be unique, and to have a war role, God forbid, in the event of a war. As far as military missions are concerned, I have yet to hear any arguments as to why they are justified. You know what's going on with our soldiers? Some do, some don't want to leave. Most people do, and then it's a privilege to leave. Why enter that certainty? They need to be encouraged to compete, to achieve the best possible results in training. Those who leave have greater wages than those who stay, much greater. It can cause trouble. Let's turn it off. Why do we need our soldiers in the faraway world to fight for other people's interests?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33676	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33677	Thank you very much. Of course, this old practice repeats that 13, 14 laws and decisions are made in a joint debate. That probably contributes to the quality of the debate. I don't see what other reason it would be, unless it's some reason that has nothing to do with reason, but we're used to it, too, so it's the state of things. Probably someone has an idea that all of these things are connected and connected in one thing, which is that the personal authority of ministers, i.e. BIA directors in BIA and Minister in the military, is maximised. There are good solutions to these laws, but the job of the opposition is not to praise good solutions, but to point to bad ones. So I'm going to leave it to a number of colleagues who are going to praise these laws, that better part, and I'm going to talk about what I think is...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33678	Here you go again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33679	I hope this wasn't some Chetnic diversion, but this is happening naturally.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33680	You don't have any devices on you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33681	I have a device, of course. Of course I have a device. So many of you are sitting there and still doesn't know who has what device, it's really unusual.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33682	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33683	So, what's wrong? It's a bad thing to add jurisdiction to the Secretary of Defense at one large level. In some parts of the Military Act, the minister exercises jurisdiction from the domains of the Chief of Staff, such as the schedule and formation of the military, sets out a list of promotions without consultation with the Chief of Staff, directly deciding which persons and facilities outside the defence ministry and the Serbian Army system will be protected by the military police, and the discretionary right of the minister to receive civilian persons in the service of the Serbian Army without competition. It's like the boss is a minister, so he's got his own private army doing whatever it is he wants. The military police can guard and, I don't know, the security of rafts or aunts from Canada or I don't know who, but without the influence of the profession, these gentlemen are in uniforms whose job it is, who are trained for it, who have experience and who know how to judge what, when and how to protect it. In the Law on Defence, the minister personally sets criteria for declaring certain associations of citizens of special interest in the defence of the country. I'd like to hear what associations of citizens have a special interest in defending the country. Whether these are some political parties, trade unions or some associations of artists who receive strange members in their composition, or something that is completely impossible to connect with any reasonable goal. In the Law on Defence in Article 4 instead of the definition so far that the defence interests of the country, the defence of the state and the protection of its citizens are now a formula for protecting sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, that this is the goal of the country's defence. Why this change? Is it a purely toxic thing or does it need to give us a new view of what the potentials are to protect the state from the attack? We also have that, in Articles 9, 14 and 15, in the same law, some of the powers that this Parliament has now taken away and given to the committee responsible, parliamentary, without any explanation why. Is that running away from the public or has it any other purpose? We have another newspaper, which is to make defence plans in the AP Vojvodina and in municipalities, and that doesn't say anywhere that they should be in line with the plan of defence of the Republic of Serbia. How can she do that? If it says so, I'd like to see where it says so, so I'll apologize if I've seen it badly, but I haven't found it. The age limit for members of the army is moving. It means that young people run away from the army. That means we have a problem with the army, which is a very bad thing. And that's where you need to see why it's happening. We're not going to solve this by having an older army, but it has to be solved so that people who are needed in Serbia's army at the ministry probably find a way to be younger people motivated to be part of the army and stay longer. Why was that promotional internship extended? He was three years old, now he's four years old, to advance from rank to rank, if I read the law well. It's an unusual thing. We have a first chance, a new principle that if any formation site is not possible to fill with an officer or a senior officer, it can be filled with a civilian face. Well, what does that look like? Well, we don't have enough officers, we don't have enough military school for that, so then civilian faces can be -- what, to run the waters, I don't know, brigades, to deal with serious military matters. It's completely unserious. Then it might happen to us that, let's say, Mrs. Nikolic, except that she joined the Artists' Association, to become commander in Kragujevac or I don't know where around. It's a non-serious thing. Again, for the first time, it is possible for military personnel to be transferred to other legal entities, not only to state institutions, but to legal persons, if necessary. What are those legal persons who need someone from the military to be there on official duty? What's the motive, what's the point of all this? We also have this memo that you received, as well as all the parliamentary groups. This is the Union's flag of arms organization. There are many things I disagree with, especially this eternal fear of liberal capitalism, but there is something that I fully support, which is that there is no reason for any part of the military industry to be privatized. Whether it's capitalisation or privatisation, it's just a word game, or a non-serious game. There is no reason why private capital would be introduced into an area that is very specific, very important and must be under permanent control of the state. It must not happen in Serbia, and people have written here that since 1853 it has been a state-owned factory. When the dosmanians didn't privatize her, as you like to say, then it's really scary to come and do it now. There's no reason. If the recapitalisation is a condition for development, which is not going to the recapitalisation of the airport, it must be transferred to state property. I don't think those criteria are the same, and it's more logical to get a private partner into the airport than to get into some kind of ammunition or weapons production. I have to agree with the previous speaker on military health. I don't think there's any need to exist at all, that it should be a single health care. When peace is all civil health, when God has not given war, everything is military health. What's the specificity of military doctors besides making them go shoot? It's pointless. Why would a neurosurgeon have to know how to shoot? When will he need it in his life? Never, of course. If we want to organize it the right way, then it needs to be integrated, there's no need for them to have an unfettered job experience, there's a need to get paid better. Many young doctors with VMA go, not only to private hospitals, but abroad, anesthesiologists especially. I know a few examples myself. That's inadmissible. It has to be prevented, but not by banning them, but by being motivated to stay, and I don't believe that it's particularly important. Not to mention military health facilities that are now standing empty throughout Serbia. A new clinical centre was built in Nis, which is nicer than the old one, but it is only a question of whether the centre is needed, since 200 meters from that we have a military hospital that was once for 200,000 potential patients, when it was the Third Army, and now there are no 25,000 people in the entire army, and there are probably not a few thousand in that army. There could be, of course, adjustments necessary, since it was made for the hospital, and not for what, to open new departments of the clinic and to use the money that was thrown here on bricks, iron and paint for equipment and for schooling, schooling, or specialization of doctors. This way we have two completely parallel systems that only cost, and that can be solved very easily. What about modernizing the army? We haven't heard anything about it. Of course, it's not military law. That's all we hear from the papers, from these tabloids. The news from the other day is that Belarus gave us about five, six planes, MIGs. Are they the same as the Russian? That means a gift that costs several hundred million euros or they're different, so unlike these Russians, they can fly because these Russians can't fly. They're here in Batajnica, they can drag tractors, but to fly it's a little harder. I wish, of course, we had a modern army that's suited to the defence strategy and our needs, there's no doubt about it, but let's not play with that circus so we can have a celebration of the arrival of planes that don't fly. What are those from Belarus going to do? The train, the truck, the boat can't, but I'm sure they won't. That's ridiculous. We just heard a big newspaper in the military, which is that there will be callers who will invite people from the reserve to report to their military schedule. It's probably part of a digitalisation project done by the Serbian government. Calls in the 21st century. That only makes sense if there should be one two, three thousand new jobs for party activists driving to Nis across the street from the KP home today. There is a third-time factory opening by the president of the state, possibly for SNS activists, left-wing Serbia and others to be employed as a substitute for digitisation, rather than for them to be invited to qualify for the job with higher schools and universities. There's a lot of things that aren't good. Come on, let me hang on to a few more. Let's say, BIA, director of BIA himself picks out who he's going to hire, teaches him himself, evaluates his ability himself, raises his salary coefficient and extends it himself, gives him rewards, and that could be if it's a ceramic store, so you're a ceramic, so you have a store, so you choose who works for you. There's got to be some kind of state service reception system. Of course, and a medical examination that should be carried out by BIA directors and candidates for ministers, but also by people who should be employed there. This is how we have full privatisation. Of course that's the way to abuse, no matter who's in power. (Blaža Knezevic: "Sabela". ) Have I heard “Sabela” somewhere? If someone is afraid of "Sablje", fear justly and stay at that level of fear, Sabela will return. There are a lot of conditions for that, but it's not a topic. Even though the officers wear sabers. That saber, by the way, you know, was named after a saber given to me by the then Minister of Interior of the Russian Federation Soygu, who today, I think, is the defence minister. So it has something to do with what we're talking about. So let's go back to something that needs to be serious, which is that both the military and military health, and everything that's related to it, the military industry, we arrange in a way that's appropriate in the 21st century. When someone calls themselves advanced, it should mean that they understand what's happening, that they understand what messages are, what are technological and all the other possibilities that the 21st century provides. This way we have a situation where we have callers instead of digitalization, that we have military planes that don't fly, that we have a BIA director who chooses who he will work with, and he, first of all, doesn't have enough expertise to do this job that he's working with right now, let alone choose who's going to work there, that we have a defence minister who's going to set up a MP tomorrow, maybe from a position, a government or maybe from an opposition, say, maybe, no, not Gordana Komic, although she's on that board, but we generally have to seriousize the defence system. I know it's very difficult to have a serious defence system when it's this kind of power, because these same people when they were in power, these same people in the '90s when they ran the Army, directly or indirectly, when these people were saving Serbs, where they were saved by Serbs, they're gone, and the victims are huge. It's not the Army's fault, of course, to make that clear. These people in uniform aren't guilty. The politicians of that time are guilty, and these politicians are again in control of the state today and, I'm afraid, God has not given any place to defend Serbs or any other citizen of Serbia or any other nationality. Therefore, gentlemen officers, the people of the Ministry, get serious and correct these bad bill proposals in this part that I said, there are a lot of hollows, and it can be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33684	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33685	Let me tell you straight away that no authority of the Chief of Staff has been reduced, nor has the powers of the defence minister been increased. So, just as he has so far been able to advance to the Captain's level, the Chief of Staff will continue to do so, and the Secretary of Defense, as he could thus far, without any change, to the rank of colonel. That's how it's gonna be by now. I don't know why this story just isn't like that. Otherwise, you know, in order for someone to improve in the Army, there is a serious series of obligations that you have to carry out, therefore, a whole series of ways to come to this, after how many years, in which way, it is very precise and no one can advance you, as you think the decision of the Minister or the decision of the Chief of Staff. It's a serious process. Among other things, in order to, here is just one thing, in addition to the assumption that you have fulfilled – that you have the right school, that you have the right years of service, that you have the right grades, that you stand out in the ministry in an appropriate way, that you were in a formational place that is more than your rank for a certain number of years to move on to a higher rank. All of this to do now, you have to go through the Human Resources Management Council within the General Staff and you have to go through the Staff Council within the Department of Defense, so when you go through all of this, then you get to the Chief of Staff or the Minister of Defense who promotes you to a higher rank. So it can't be arbitrarily in any way. Here, we have generals in the assembly who know it can't do that. There have been cases where politics behave and improve, but it's just not our practice and we don't do it. Right, it takes a lot of people to join our army to make us happy, so that the completeness is appropriate. You should. We miss the soldiers, we miss the officers, we miss the soldiers first. Two reasons are essential. One is - the country is better economically, the wages are higher, the government pays less. And, of course, a young man defines himself for a job that is easier, in which he doesn't have to carry a weapon, in which he doesn't have to think about how dangerous it is to do what he does, on which he is often exposed to serious demands that could endanger his health. You know, it's not easy being a soldier, it's one of the most honorable, but also the hardest professions you can choose. If for the same money, or a little smaller or a little higher money you can find another job, well, maybe you'll find it. In order to overcome this, you must make one joint effort of the entire state, the entire society, not just the Ministry of Defense. That's why we're going into residential construction for the security sector. Because you say - a good salary is what it is, but I have a great chance of getting an apartment that I could never pay from a salary that is much bigger than that apartment. Well, then make it possible, like, let's say, we've introduced a rule now that you get solidarity when you have a child. So we've made it possible more than ever that our soldiers and their families can go to our resorts and not just at regressed prices, but that it's borne by the Ministry of Defense. Not to mention how much we've promoted the army, how much we've armed it. These aren't the times when the army didn't get anything. You know, the only way that the MiGs you're talking about don't fly is if they modernize, so when something modernizes it doesn't fly, but you bring something new into it, it'll be even better, it'll be level four plus, something we didn't have. Of course it didn't bother anyone from 2000 to 2012. Then you could, you had 12 years to get to fly the best in the world, buy "fantoms"... You didn't do it. Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you build an air force that flew great? You didn't do that. When you're talking about the medical profession, let me just tell you that at the time of your government, you've disbanded six sanity squads. Six sanity squads have been disbanded. There must be military health, among other things, because military health needs to take care of our population, not just our army he cares about all the time. We have 113,000 security guards and they take care of them, as they must, the sanity, take care of our soldier's condition now in the land's security zone. Who are you sending, a civilian doctor? You will now send someone from Belgrade who has not done military training in any way, but you will send him to be in the land's security zone to do some work there, as it seems. So it's not done. Of course there has to be. You know, this when you're talking, and it is malicious, I understand political motives but it is malicious, that civilians can stand up, that now civilians will become brigade commanders, etc. First of all, I'd like to tell you that this member, the Secretary of Defense, determines the formational posts of the Ministry of Defense. You don't have any brigades here, you don't have any military units and any other part, and on the proposal of the Chief of Staff, these formations are set in Serbia's Army. So the Chief of Staff determines. Now let me tell you right now what it is, it's when you need a lawyer, so you don't have, say, an officer who passed a judicial exam and you need a lawyer, you don't have a builder, you don't have a financist, you don't have a doctor, so these are the things you can set up. Well, you can't put in a hull, you can't set up a commanding officer. Of course you can't do that, but let's just make it worse for what we're doing. So, as you can see, the laws are written to improve the functioning of the Serbian Army. When it comes to BIA, everything that's been said happens after the administrative procedure has been carried out, after they've been implemented. Who's going to grade, excuse me, and who's going to reward the employee? Who? His boss or commission? Well, of course his boss will. Who's gonna take a man to the B.I.A. instead of the guy who runs the B.I.A.? Who's gonna do that? We want to have, I don't know, some commission that will consist of NGOs that will determine who the man of the year is in BIA, so we'll reward him. It can't be like that. Of course he will decide who is responsible and of course he is for the results of the work and of course he needs to be able to choose his associates and of course the BIA has its specifics, as the police have, as the military has. It can't be that it's a reception like any other. It's not like any other reception. As soon as you have to go through rigorous security checks, it's not like any other reception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33686	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33687	Your Honors Chairman, I'm reporting to article 107. You are violating the Rules of Procedure because you allow representatives of the former regime during "Sablje" to deceive the public. Enabling the Agency for the Employment of Persons without Mandatory Competition is an respect for the specific nature of the operations carried out by the Agency. Of course, this provision does not mean introducing a new rule and abolishing a public competition. After all, all interested people could see on the Agency's website and BIA's constantly open opportunity for all interested people to apply for BIA employment. This gives the possibility to exempt the BIA when justified reasons are required. A different solution would be contrary to the generally accepted standards and to the parallel practice of other security intelligence systems, thus enabling the acquisition of specific specific personnel for the most complex tasks. Thank you. I'm not asking the Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33688	Thank you, colleague Becic. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. The right to replica Vladimir Djukanovic has.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33689	Thank you, Your Honor. As authorized, I'm taking advantage of the opportunity for replication, and here I've come to say something that really needs to be explained to the public because someone deliberately abuses lies and deceptions and shameful propaganda is actually trying to accuse the current government of making some kind of party police. By the way, this BIA Act, which is before us, is actually the other way around. We have a transparent work BIA because so far it's been the BIA director who, past the competition, could have signed a solution for someone to get into work at the Agency. This law now says only the following – that no competition is required. That doesn't mean he's gone, it's not mandatory, and you know why? Because imagine if you were to receive an operative in the BIA and draw what you need in some competition and some foreign service comes and sets up your man and he goes to the competition. Well, that's only a crazy man could allow that kind of competition. It is precisely the work of the BIA and of course no service in the white world has the kind of public competition to receive its operative. That wouldn't be normal. I would really ask that we no longer give this kind of nonsense unless we listen to those who, you know, honor someone else's education. Those who, for example, had a minister in their government, I respect every job, but they had a metal rodent. That was the Minister of Labour. Please, they are now honoring someone's education, which, by the way, is said to be far more than that which was here and unfortunately the Prime Minister, whose education is really scarce and really embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33690	Thank you, fellow Djukanovic. Right on the line, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33691	The replica minister, of course, that reader who said something, who had a replica that was written, that's genius, that's the first time I've seen it, but I'm not going to replicate a colleague who obviously has a lot of knowledge in the field of security and has now revealed how foreign services can get us into BIA something. But, Minister, first I apologize to the left of Serbia, I said by mistake, thinking of the Socialist Movement that it would be part of these which would be callers, so that they could work around, maybe take off a kilo, you didn't give me the answers to the most important questions, and that's why these moments don't fly? You said, 'Cause they're getting better. Well, why didn't you buy some flyers? Is it possible to buy a flying plane in the world, which has already been promoted, which is already full of equipment that is necessary for what its purpose is? Or is it a custom, as Djukanovic probably knows, as well as the services, to buy a plane that doesn't fly? Then he sits down on Saturday afternoons, makes a bed, doesn't eat steaks, just squids and those who know how to fix that plane, let's say batteries. As I recall, they did repairs once by changing batteries, and that was a great donation to our great friendly country. Come on, guys, what's wrong with you? Planes fly, doctors heal. Anywhere a doctor can treat, anywhere, whether it's a land safety zone, whether it's not God, Syria or Belgrade, of course he doesn't need to know how to shoot, or if it's his job to protect himself, there's another service for that. That someone who doesn't have a mind would have to learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33692	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Minister, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33693	Thank you. You know, if you hadn't left us billions of debts, maybe we could have bought on the free market, so we wouldn't have to get anything from anyone. You were 12 years old to buy a plane that flies, to buy a plane that doesn't fly. It didn't occur to you to buy anything like that. (Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. So, when the planes are modernized, of course they don't fly. (Chairman: Don't throw it away, please.) And now, everyone who came to our country was flying. Please, if you can reduce our MP's impatience, he's so excited about what he's listening to, but I understand, and if you can't. (President: I apologize Minister. I ask MP Zivkovic not to throw from the scene. ) So it would be interesting, here, because of our public announcement, that, say, the Republic of Croatia bought the squadron F16 Barak, planes that flew four times more than the moments we received and paid 500 million dollars just to understand what the amount was actually our donation and how much we got. Do you know that only one rocket under that wing costs more than a million dollars, and that's what we got. Did you know that pilots who train at those moments, that their training costs two million dollars and that, among other things, we got it. So we got top-of-the-line planes, we got them for an extremely small amount of money, we got airplanes that flew, planes that could fly when they came to our airport, and we're working both remonting and modernizing. I'm sorry to bother you that we're modernizing the planes. We can't modernise them while they're flying. You know, when they're flying in the air, then it's complicated to fix them and it's quite complicated to insert a new radar. They still have to land and something has to be done like that, so let's get that straight. It wouldn't be bad, it's the only thing I've ever stayed in debt, all of this rest of you understand perfectly, you just don't want to understand, of course, is the story of capitalization. It's hard to tell Russia that it doesn't take care of its defence industry and it's very hard to say for Russia that who knows who's entering the defence industry. Just so you know, they privatized Kalashnikov a few weeks ago. So money is needed, knowledge is needed, markets are needed, and all smart countries are doing it. And we're a smart country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33694	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly, and I could have been 109, 110, because of the throw-offs, etc. Mr. Minister, gentlemen, about the violation of the Rules of Procedure committed by my fellow farmer, please introduce an act - deserter in reserve. Apparently, my fellow farmer is a little nervous about the age limit. It may occur to you officers to check his medical condition and return him to the army, the one he has avoided. As for his demeaning of the military and aviation, here, this one throws, and what, rude, as far as his comments about aviation are concerned, is very maligned. In his time, by 2012, at the time of the former regime's party in our army, only birds could fly and perhaps embellish these eagles on the flag. They couldn't even buy a motor dragon. Please, gentlemen, take him to see the moment from Russia and get it over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33696	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The right to the replica first has Vladimir Djukanovic, to prepare Djordje Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33697	Thank you, Chairman. You know, when you answer someone with an argument that's usually valid and that all services use, then that someone's trying to insult you, I guess, thinking he's very smart. But, speaking of which, since I'm told that I've reportedly revealed whether or not some of the services are going to involve agents, you know, personnel of the Bia then, that is, the National Security Service, which you've been posting, have now written books saying that you are, in fact, you. Your authority as it was putting foreign agents into our service, and that's what's terrible. You've turned our services into a kindergarten and you've actually made them a service of foreign service. What were they doing? They were the only ones who were persecuting the people on Hague charges, and they weren't protecting the interests of the state at all. You see, we want to create a reverse principle, we want to protect the state. That's why, of course, there's a system -- how all the services work, so will our services. You did it like that, so... The VBA had to put on a transparent public procurement of its technique, so in the health book of BIA workers it has the seal that the BIA worker, you see, will never repeat it again because it is not normal and because it serves to protect the state, I agree that it should be returned to the State Security Service, not the Agency. The service should protect the state, not work for other services, and that is the fundamental difference between our approach and yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33698	Thank you, fellow Djukanovic. Right to the replica of George Komlenski, mentioning the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33699	I thank the chairman. I didn't answer at the first moment, because I had a dilemma whether it was a mistake or a consequence of these confused laws in my head or something else confused by 19 different ingredients, but when a man who took 500 and some million euros on non-existent vineyards, when he who abused to the maximum the function of the Prime Minister at a time of emergency, to sell the Nis to the Duvan industry for 500 million, and worth two billion and 100, and damaged the Republic of Serbia for a billion and six, says he has some intentions about party employment and here a real joke about what has always been known in Vojsca, really forces me to quote some of his former party comrades, who were very close to the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, of whom I heard that the late Zoran Djindjic had the opportunity to write a political will alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33700	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. ) Sign up [[Zoran Zivkovic: Give me the replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33701	The Honorable Chairman, Minister of Military...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33702	Mr. Zivkovic, I give you a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. I give you a second warning. Continue your coworker, Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33703	The Honorable Chairman, Minister of Military with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am sorry that for the past few minutes we have turned away from such serious issues and such serious laws. I'm sorry that this is how I start after my colleague's warning. Serbia has always loved the army, the Serbian people have always loved the army. My predecessor, the denominator said he served a military term and I want to say on behalf of his United Serbia MP group that all of us in our time served military service and that the oath requires that we make ourselves available to this country whenever it is necessary. It is true that Serbia is arming or better said, Serbia is investing in weapons. JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, otherwise the head of our parliamentary group, said the state is investing in weapons, but that does not mean that Serbia will attack anyone. This does not mean that anyone will attack Serbia because political stability is currently in Serbia. We want from the Single Serbia that Serbia will never war again and that our children never go to war again. The laws that are on the agenda today, and most apply to the Army of the Republic of Serbia are acceptable to us from the JS, we will certainly vote for all these laws and give you support. The army was always accepted in the Serb people, and when we should compare it with any other institution, our people always put it at the very top. That's right today. The most responsible for such a situation at the moment are realistically President Aleksandar Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, who have done a lot by their engagement in recent years to make countries in the environment and some other more serious, larger military forces than we have, accept such a situation. It is very important, in my opinion, that what you said, Serbia remains neutral and that Serbia continues to have a policy of peace. That's what we have to be persistent about. We co-operate with NATO, that's true, we co-operate with the ODKB and that's how it should stay. A part of Kosovo is currently occupied and your task, the task of all of us, is that the government must not allow us to recognise Kosovo's army and that we cannot even recognise Kosovo's independence. The dialogue is the best weapon Serbia currently has and benefits from achieving its goals, but for a country that has never waged conquerive wars, Serbia can today be said to be a country that has something to defend. And after a long time, fortunately for us, what about who's talking, we're going to get a serious squadron. We will also have serious helicopters, so Serbia definitely in the region, in the environment, returns its status that it once had. Serbia has made a serious step towards innovation in the military industry for the past few years. You made "Lazara", "Milosa", armored vehicles, you made good drones, our defence industry continues to be ahead in the production of different infantry weapons, different calibers and Serbia still has a tradition of years old, created by excellent ammunition. What is certainly commendable, and I want to commend all people who have direct ties to it and you ministers, which is that Serbia is approaching nearly billions of dollars in military equipment and weapons exports. Back in the old Yugoslavia, when we were one serious force, when we were a complete state, we were exporting four billion, in serious competition. Today, when the competition is even stronger, Serbia is going towards a billion dollars in exports and that is a great result. What you're working on, and you can't stop, is still improving the working conditions of the lives of all members of the Serbian Army. You have to continue on that path, and I would ask you to explain to me why in 2002 and 2004, Serbian military members stopped paying for a warm meal, more specifically since 2004 and 2002? I also want to ask you to find, in accordance with Article 25, some way, a model, that we start paying again both a warm meal and a regression to members of the Serbian Army. We, of course, have a commitment to Republika Srpska, as well as to ourselves that we can always count on each other and never allow the persecution and suffering of the Serbian people to be repeated. With the equipment and the investment in weapons, it will certainly be easier, but of course I always say, God forbid, that such a situation will ever occur. Today we have 14 on the agenda, i.e. 13 laws. The first is a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018. I've heard different comments today on this subject. The fact is that we've been through history, and I used to say that here, we've always had an army that was recognizable in that closer or further environment. Our army is also under the flags of other states, because the time in which we were then living was also going on and on some conquest campaigns. Our army has always been recognized in these wars. Today we have a different situation, that in 2018 more than 700 members of the Army and 11 members of the police are going into some operations, but these are mostly peace operations, and we in Unique Serbia support it. First of all, because these people and those human beings who go away will become compatible with these other armies, to bring some experience into our country. The second is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2018. I will only be brief, of course not because of you or the colleagues present here, but primarily because of the citizens who are watching what we are doing today and these laws that we are making today, to say that in the multinational operations in 2018, our army, our soldiers will be in Liberia, the Republic of Congo, Lebanon, Cyprus, in the Middle East, in the Western Sahara, the Republic of Mali, in South Sudan, in J.J., in Kashmir, in the Central African Republic, in Somalia, in various humanitarian operations and of course mentioning the MUP. They participate in a UN peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Cyprus and in EU civilian crisis management missions. Very briefly, I will repeat what you said, two billion 337 million dinars are needed for these operations from the budget, of which the Ministry of Defence is going to provide a million 755, MUP 66 million and 515 million will provide the UN. The third is the draft law on military education. We need to adopt this law in order to comply with the rules on military education with the rules on education in the Republic of Serbia so that military-school institutions can become an integral part of the education system in Serbia. When it comes to the staff that is educated in our military-school institutions, we certainly do, you who represent us and the people who went on these missions that I talked about or in any other engagement, in some military operations get the best grades. So they didn't just go there to take some knowledge, they brought great knowledge from here. And that's certainly a commendation for our teaching chamber. The following is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. It's been said for a long time that high school's work plan has been restored by first aid classes, civil protection. We've been changing around here almost, and the Traffic Act, which now treats it a little more seriously, and anyone who goes to pass a driving test has a duty and a first aid. I'm one of those generations that had the opportunity to learn in high school, but the new generation is getting lucky for the first time. So it's certainly good and it needs to be intensified in this direction to still return such skills to secondary education. I agree with you, you said that we are a military-neutral country, and it automatically suggests that we can only count on ourselves and our population and you're absolutely right. Furthermore, the fifth is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. Very short. This, in my opinion, may be one of the most serious changes, and I'm only going to say this very briefly because of those who follow. A more favourable position of professional soldiers, seniors and officers is being provided, a consensus is being made with the provisions of the new Law on Police, a amendment has been proposed allowing civilian personnel at the service in the military to represent them, i.e. to be placed in the formational posts of professional military personnel at the Ministry of Defence. This right is enabled for officers and sub-offices who can be placed in formational posts, i.e. to represent civil persons at the service as well as civil servants at their posts. It also creates the possibility of identifying professional members of the military into another state body, the possibility of their involvement in the structures of international organisations and regional initiatives. Sanitary services officers, teaching officers at the University of Defence and science officers are allowed to extend the service in the military. More specifically, training and training of professional members of the Army are being arranged. The proposed amendments and additions shall be subject to compliance with the provisions of the laws governing salaries and other monetary incomes in the public sector, the reasons and conditions for the termination of the service of professional persons during the war and the expansion of the circle of persons who may be judges, jurors of the Higher Military Discipline Court. I repeat, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support this law. Proposal for a law on the production and transport of arms and military equipment. I said at first, the fact that Serbia's military industry is approaching billions of dollars in military equipment and weapons exports is enough to indicate that everything works properly in this sector. When you send us to amend and supplement one of these laws, I think it's not a lot to comment on, but while you're already doing something good to support it. The aim of this law is to control the improvement of the areas of production and transport of arms and military equipment in order to protect the defence, security, economic and foreign policy interests of the Republic of Serbia, its international credibility, integrity, as well as the development and improvement of the defence, technological industry of the base of the Republic of Serbia. The seventh draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Republic of Serbia military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. I've already commented on this when it comes to the first and second laws. So, of course we support this. The eighth is the draft law amending and supplementing the Military Labour and Material Obligation Act. This law has been applied since 2011. It regulates military obligations, recruiting obligations, military service obligations and voluntary service of military service with weapons, reserve composition, travel and stay of military bounds abroad, the right to compensation for military obligations, military records, labour obligations in state authorities and legal entities of importance for defence, material obligations of citizens, companies, other legal entities and entrepreneurs in emergency war. There's a lot of things here consistent with the experience so far, with the desire to define certain provisions more precisely. The ninth is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Act. This is quite enough to comment on what tells us what is the basic reason, what we have received from the BIA people, and they say – this law is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure, as otherwise it would be called into question the possibility of the BIA to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, and this could have adverse consequences for the security of citizens and the achievement and protection of their freedoms and rights. We from JS are a state-run party, we absolutely understand this message, and there's nothing to comment on here. If the people who care about the safety of all of us who have good intentions say this is an emergency, we will, without great comment, accept this. We have three more memos and one deal. This is the proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel, concerning military, defence and defence-industry co-operation, a proposal to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece on co-operation in the framework of the Athens Multinational Strategic and Maritime Coordination Centre and the Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Republika Srpska on aviation co-operation, and there is another agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on defence co-operation. Once again, the JS parliamentary group will support all the laws that are on today's agenda, and I will ask you to, in accordance with the things I said at the beginning of my speech, be persistent and continue this way, because Serbia is moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33704	The next speaker is Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33705	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen high-ranking officers, guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I will try to comment on the set of these laws, there are plenty of them, and we cannot devote ourselves to everyone. First comes the decision on the participation of members of the Army in multinational operations in 2018. Our people and our soldiers go to different locations around the world, some of which are quite risky and do it most for money, because in a legal and normal way they can't make a decent living or anything else. But, well, let's keep it the way it is. I'd like to do just one dipression, which is that, behold, the ruling set is very rebelling against it when it comes to the frozen conflict for Kosovo and Metohija, and we're just sending our members of the armed forces, either soldiers, or policemen, around the world mainly to frozen conflicts, and some aren't so frozen. I'd like to commit a little more to the Law of Military Education. I realize that this law was passed back in 1994 and that in the meantime a lot has changed and really certain changes are needed. I'm not from that profession, I'm not from the Army, I haven't even served a military term, but I have consulted with my fellow doctors who work with the military and your fellow high-ranking officers, and many of them have had objections to this University of Defense and have assessed it as a pre-ambitious institution which is partly designed as a legalization of the ambitions of individual professors of the Military Academy and the Military Academy. That this is the testimony of the number of members involved in this law in the very structure of the Defence University and about one quarter of the members refer to the structure of that university, and everything else complete education of this rest. For example, from 17th to 19th, from 32nd to 45th to 77th to 79th, the members refer to the University of Defence, while for the students of military schools, rights and obligations are defined by a much smaller number of members, from 46th to 52nd and from 55th to 58th and from 62th to 64th. We believe that the Military Academy should be a roof organisation of military education and, of course, should be in the structure of the General Staff of Serbia. First of all, this is because only the General Staff can give a proper and good projection of those needs that the Army carries with it. That this is not exactly respected until the end of the testimony and inflation of courses in the military academy itself that apply, say, to the economy or to the IT sector, so there are a lot of young people, women and men who finish these courses, and then they can't find a job in the military and they have to go to civilization. In my opinion, it should be the other way around, that the Civilian Army is drawing people to work, not to go from the Military Academy, or military schools, to work in civil society. Also, there are a number of officers missing in the family courses, in the infantry and in the artillery. I realize that we don't have enough professional people in the military and that it's about as much as in medicine, you have to invest a lot in a man to finally get a professional face. I have one question, as far as I know, that the Serbian Army has 212 tanks. How many tankers do we have? Can we secure at least one tanker for each tank and have them all come out at the same time? That would, in fact, talk about listening to the needs of the Republic of Serbia's Army and then getting trained in that way. Also, I'd like someone to answer me – what is this high-school mixed military school? That's under Article 12. I've seen that there's military high school here, and that's quite all right, and then, if we have military high school, why we're introducing that high-school mixed-school military school, it seems to me that our army isn't so big again that it would take us to have two military schools, because children then have some idea that when they enroll in military high school, or that high-school mixed military school, that they can immediately take their chances and go to studies at the Military Academy or this defense university that you intend to open. So what we stand for is a system of education that will function as a real development and fill in the military, not satisfying certain ambitions of some people. Next, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, and that is where we're going to react, and we're going to talk more about it when it comes to it. The same applies to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army. I'd stop for a little while longer at the Law and the manufacture of weapons and military equipment. Judging by the size of this bill, it is the largest material of all the materials delivered, which we have received. There is a clear tendency of the current government to regulate and adapt this area to its needs. There is certainly a need for certain things to be brought and changed, because the previous law is from 1996 and as with education, so many things have changed here. What has personally bothered me and our parliamentary group, is that here in the law for the first time there are concepts such as – a foreign investor, or foreign investment. This is in Articles 3-10 to 13 and attitude 40 and even companies that are part of the defence industry, up to 49%. Mr. Minister said I shouldn't talk about privatisation, okay, you say recapitalisation, I'm going to respect you in some way, so I'm going to use that word of capitalization, but against that capitalisation, or as military unions say privatisation, is a large number of unions from the dedicated industry, against it are representatives of the "First Partisan" from Uzica, "Krusika" Valjevo, "Freedom" Cačak, "First Iskra" Baric, flag of weapons from Kragujevac. The flag of arms even had one warning strike the other day. People working on purpose claim that the dedicated industry is doing great, that it is participating with $200m in Serbia's exports, that Serbia is exporting weapons to 60 countries in the world. Therefore, there is no need for this industry to be capitalised and that tycoons and foreign investors enter the arms industry of the Republic of Serbia. And the question is, how are we, no matter what the state has 51%, so it's going to have this gold action, but we can still control how things are going to happen and what they're going to produce, because there's always a way to blackmail and with smaller things, and especially with these big things like this. The other thing that worries is that foreigners are even encouraged to come and make their own military industry here, and there you can't control them in any way. They can really produce whatever they want and something that doesn't need Serbia's armies, and that way, we, or our industry, seem to have tripped the possibility of it progressing. Another thing that motivated me or inspired me or convinced me that this should not be done is that no one from the countries of the environment, as far as I know, has privatized or recapitalised its military industry, or allowed some foreigners to come and produce something. I heard the other day from a colleague from the ruling party that some of the brothers from Karlovec were great at producing extraordinary guns, but these are people who are domestic and who are going into production without any foreign element. Furthermore, it is said that they will not be able to participate in the recapitalisation or in the formation of their weapons companies those under UN or EU sanctions. Please, does that mean, and I would like to get that answer, whether because Russia is also under EU sanctions, does that mean that money and investors from the Russian Federation will also get a ramp and will not be able to invest, capitalise or open their own companies here. The EU itself has set out a list of branches where it has made a recommendation that will become an obligation that is not for sale. In these branches are telecommunications, energy and certainly a dedicated industry. Why is that? Because fear of the Chinese is in the EU, because China is very competitive and is ready to buy everything alive and they are thus protected. And little Serbia, which is still a weak country in transition that has a hundred problems, which is not rich, not to say which is poor, somehow does not use the opportunity to protect that industry. I also read some letters written by the Commissioner for the Protection of Information about the BIA and about these laws, and now they actually respect that there is no control mechanism outside the Ministry because everything is in the hands of the Minister himself. So it's the Ministry that issues permits, which do not issue permits, which take away licenses, and it doesn't account for anyone, even if it's issued and withdrawn permits don't even account for the Assembly's Security Control Committee. We think it's really not good, because it's not transparent and no centralised is good. Today, maybe that's what you're in charge of. You know the wheel of happiness turns. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow someone else can come and then it won't, first of all, suit you. I have a question about how in a situation where we have foreigners in the military industry respect point 102. The law on defence, which is classified as data relating to the defence system that has been designated as data of interest in the national security of the Republic of Serbia. How we will protect the data on patents that are relevant for the defence of the country and the means and devices intended for defence, and these funds are in the phase of study, testing and implementation. I would now move to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security and Information Agency Act, better known as the BIA. The law entered the emergency procedure on August 29th of the previous year, with a big story that, my God, the state would fail if the law was not passed in an emergency procedure. However, here we have waited until today. It's been more than six months and we're just talking about this law. This BIA law is also problematic and a lot of objections was made by the Commissioner for the Protection of Secrets of Information. And here it's all put into the hands of the director of BIA, so one man. The problem solutions are found in Article 20g, where they are said – The procedure, programme and way of attending professional training of professional training and passing a special expert examination, shall be determined by the act of the Director, so Article 20g – The work of the members of the Agency shall be assessed once a year, the procedure, criteria and methods of evaluation of the members of the Agency shall be determined by an act adopted by the Director. So, the director takes people, no competition, the director decides who's making progress, the director decides who's like him. In order to respect democracy somewhere, and you'll allow me that democracy is a system of organized mistrust with the government, we've amended our response here, and we've asked that a member of the BIA may refuse a certain action that he thinks is out of line with the Constitution and the law. The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina has such a thing, so does the Republic of Croatia, and so do the countries of the European Union. Here, I listed both Bosnia and Herzegovina, because BiH is not in the EU. Also, we've been reforming and asking for a single body to be created that would be independent and that in some way would control the work of this agency that's practically too incoherent, too much of this law is written, you'll let me and you'll forgive me for saying, as if it were written for Lavrenty Barry, and we shouldn't have Stalinism here anyway. So here's one centralization and a lack of any surveillance and non-transparentity. However, if I do not turn out to be against everything and nothing is right, I must commend all these agreements on co-operation, the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel regarding military, defence and defence-industrial co-operation, similar to this strategic partnership with Greece, the Agreement between Serbia and the Government of Romania and, in particular, the Law on Confirming the Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Republika Srpska in the field of aviation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33706	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33707	Thank you very much. I thank you for the effort and effort to read this extensive material and make appropriate remarks and, accordingly, I would like to say that we see the topic you were talking about. You know, every college has to be part of some university. There are cases where you don't have to, but you'll admit that the Military Academy deserves to be part of the university. That's exactly why a military university was formed. He's already working and he's already working. What's the most important thing about military university? That's how we can train, educate teachers in tactics, strategies, operatives and command. No other university can give it to you. There is no university where you can finish your strategy. So we have to have our university and it's a defense university. If we're going to make a mix, it's a matter of decision. So we have military high school right now. We have high-school, professional military schools that provide us with a sub-office chamber and provide us with specific occupations. It's, like, a radar mechanic. Where are you gonna find that? You have it here or you don't have it anywhere. Are we going to make a mix, in the sense that we're going to connect military high school with a high-school military school, that's the question. I can't give you an answer to that right now, but we want to predict the possibility. If we think we should, here's a chance to do it. So he's not gonna pretend now. I simply don't have an answer to that question, but there is a possibility that it will happen, and at this point we have these two forms of organization – military high school and secondary military school. You know, if we have fear only of foreign investment, that's why there's a possibility of spilling out information, and do you think it can't be an outflow of information from our citizens? You'll admit that even some of our citizens, even our investor, can be a member of the foreign service and how he works for foreigners, so we can't get away from it. Besides, you know, for the constitution that you voted for in the referendum, and I voted for that constitution, is the constitution that says that the process... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33708	Try again to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33709	So the process of privatising social property must be completed. If I'm not mistaken, it's an 80. So it has to end. Now in some factories we have, I think it's the flag, there's 26% of social capital... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33710	I'm sorry, it's gonna take some time to fix the system. I suggest that it be a regular hour's break now and that we continue to work afterwards. So, I'm setting up an official break by the Rules of Procedure and we'll continue at 1:30. [[after breaks]] The system's working. We're going back to work. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33712	Thank you, Madam President. It's a pleasure to be able to speak in this kind of peace and quiet, it's a way to say some of the thoughts I wanted, in a calm atmosphere, and to get along a little better and maybe talk about some things. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, we have a whole set of security system laws today. That's very important, but I want to say a few things. First, Serbia is a safe country. It is not only of itself, Serbia is a safe country, because security authorities are doing their job well. I'm not going to say what challenges we've been in since the migrant crisis, from our environment, from happening a little wider, away in the Mediterranean pool, but that's why we're very safe in Serbia. We have to stress that, because it's the credit and the organs we're talking about today. Secondly, I would like to stress that the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party and the Social Democratic Party favours Serbia's neutrality. I stress, we advocate Serbia's neutrality for a simple reason because we are a small country, we are not a country that can wage war against the great, nor should we fight war, but we should have our own army, well equipped according to our capabilities, an army capable of defending us against any attack that could possibly be in the future. That's why we need to discuss here very seriously the laws that are on the agenda today, we need to supplement them for a simple reason because we need to have a serious approach to this subject. Here on this subject, which for me is also state-of-the-art, you cannot and should not collect cheap political points. We are talking about the security system, and that is what every citizen of Serbia is interested in. The security of the state is not related to any regime, nor to any political party, is related to the state of Serbia. That's why we have this serious approach that we need to discuss today. I'll start with the Serbian Army. You know, I like to say, this is a people's army. Historically, the army of Serbia came from the people and it must be with the people, always with the people. I also stress this because we had an elitist approach. The army should be some elite organization where they will go enlightened. Our generals need to be smitten with some flaxes, etc. No, I don't. Officers, officers, soldiers, generals must be with the people and must be of the people. Every schooling officer is aware of the fact that he has to defend his country, that he is schooling for it, and that he is risking his life, as all citizens do, if that's the case tomorrow, they have to do it. I stand for the uniqueness of the security system. There can't be individual events, there can't be groups, there can't be no groups, I don't know, I can't say that word because I've always been against them, I've always been a Chetnik, I don't know who. A unique defense system must exist. There must be coordination, because without it, there's no result. Now I'm going to talk about another thing, and before I say it right now, SDPS is going to vote for all the laws. So, all the laws that are here. Why are we doing this? The security system is one serious system. It needs to be fixed constantly, constantly controlled, and constantly promoted. No one's going to say we're fixing the laws that exist here. We're filling in the legal gaps that have occurred in the execution of certain obligations, and we're doing it right now. We make that system better, better quality, and thus more transparent. It means that no one within the security system can interpret things as they suit him, but as it stands in the law. Under the law there are also sublaws. These sublaws must be respected. Then there's a small space for various abuses. We often mystify things. We have mystified security services as well. Please, security services, that's where I think of BIA, VBA and VOA, they're doing their job. I have to tell you, they're doing a very good job of their own. We often mystify these services by considering some kind of secret action, etc. Please, that's where good frames work, they know their jobs. We've got public control over the Security Control Committee. I'm a deputy member, and I've been in control of all these agencies many times. I noticed that these agencies are doing really well, respecting the law, and there are some indeterminations in the legal regulations that we are now filling out. We're filling in to make them better and to make them work better. That's exactly the public control of these services. If you don't give them space to abuse certain things, but you define everything clearly and precisely, if you have good personnel, technical equipment, public control of the board, then you'll really be in a situation where these services have to do the work they exist for, and behind that is the security of Serbia's citizens, which is the basic goal of all of us here. I support and welcome the decision to participate in multinational forces, military use in multinational operations. That's good for the Army of Serbia. Good, because in this way in the world we show how ready we are, how trained we are and how equipped we are to give the best answers to security challenges in those countries. Going to Africa isn't easy, it's risky, we all know that, but the military call is risky, everyone who goes into the army knows that very well. So we support it, and I can also say that we show a lot, we have praise, but we are learning. There are often other forces that are sometimes better trained than our strengths, it is an opportunity for us to compare and to have experiences that we have in our country and train other personnel. That is why I support this fact, and also this amendment that you have given in law, that every year we do not make a decision for a particular mission, but that once we make a decision, it is valid and that a further operational body, such as the Government, such as the President of the State, will do its job and do what is expected of them. For Serbia's Army for Serbia's international reputation, that's very important. This is also important to us because we show the other face of Serbia. This Serbia is no longer Serbia in the 1990s and will never be again, this will be a modern state, a European state and that is why we are very open. I was talking about military neutrality. This is very important for the simple reason that military neutrality means that Serbia is also facing the West, according to the NATO Pact, is facing Russia, China, all others who can help us be better. Next, I'd like to say something about military school. Let me just ask my colleagues for quiet...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33713	Ambassador, that's the usual thing for us to do. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33714	I know it's common in this congregation, but I want this assembly to be just like this so we can discuss the arguments and the facts nicely. As a professor, I'm used to the silence, so I'm kind of bothered by this, but good. Military education with us has always been good quality. It was good quality in the former country of SFRY, Serbia, before World War II, and that's what I want to stress. It's good that we continue this job of improving military education, which means we're harmonising with civil education, conditionally speaking, but we're giving specificities to those needed for the military. In the course of military service alone, I taught at the Higher Military Academy, which is an honor to me, and then I became convinced that the quality of military education is very high, that the standards required by the pits are very high, very strict and should continue. There's no good officer or officer if you don't show knowledge. As rarely when in the present modern conditions, knowledge is that each army is well trained to defend and to work. I'd like to say a few more things. Army law, many things are well solved there. There's no rapid progress, there's no such thing as going to the embassy anymore, there's more and more military acts. You have to do your job in a certain act, to prove yourself based on certain qualities to be promoted. That's very important. You know, our generals in World War II and World War I were the most talented people in this Serbia. Why? There is this now in Serbia, and by quality criteria we can achieve that we also have good generals who will know how to run things and know how to show what they need. When I talk about the army, I'd like to say something about the standard. You know, there's no good and motivated officer, officer or professional soldier unless he's motivated and materially. The fact that we're not some rich country, but people who work in security must be well stimulated, because they give the state what's most important -- their lives. They're willing to do it, to do it. I welcome the decision to execute and help all those families who died in these wars, where a military person died in military service, their children must be helped to finish colleges and schools, and we must also help them to have a settled housing issue that suits them. Sometimes they can't choose where they'll be moved and where they'll be deployed. That's what they're asking them to do, and they have to do it. I said a few words and I'll do it again, about hiring security agencies. Please, for security actions to be quality and good, every security agency, it's BIA, it's VBA or VOA, it's gotta have good personnel first of all. These good frames are not easy, they need to be trained, and the fact itself needs to be well rewarded materially. I don't think it's any problem that there's no competition here. Please, you can't get good intelligence through a competition. You either have a talent for it and a willingness to work, or you don't. Second, BIA and all the other intelligence agencies we have are doing their job well, but in accordance with the laws. The laws must be clear, precise, procedures must be known, procedures must be followed. It is quite logical that at the head of every agency, in principle, a political person can stand, but all the further within the agency are experts, especially trained, because the responsibility, if you don't respond to some security challenge is very large. With the desire for our security structures, which I have said these nice words about, but behind the fine words are the results, because there are very important results, because the state of Serbia is a safe country, I want these laws to be adopted, because these laws mean filling out legal gaps, filling in what may not have been seen so far. One of the perhaps harmless facts I've been talking to my security colleagues. With us in Serbia, anyone can buy a phone card and do whatever they want from that phone without having a record. No one wants to think about what can happen in safety if that card is misused, throw away, and you don't have a record. So there's a lot of things that need to be fixed. And be assured that SDPS will provide full support for the improvement of these services, their better work, their quality of work, their material situation. And, in the end, I don't need to point out that, we're going to vote for all the laws that are proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33715	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. Now the word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33716	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Officers, fellow MPs, today we have a set of military security laws and the security system that we want to arrange at this session is a public good. The adoption of these laws should also be accompanied by adequate constitutional changes, as the security sector deserves to be processed and to receive a special section in the Constitution of the Republic. Unfortunately, no Serbian constitution, nor the current one, has fully addressed the issue of national security, nor has the National Defence Strategy regulated it at the level of the highest state act. The constitution should first establish that all security holders are subject to democratic and civilian control, all of them, not just the military, so both the police and security services and other state authorities with the authority to use force. Under democratic civilian control should also be civilian commanders, conditions of declaration of martial law and war, the role of the National Security Council, the mission of the military, police and service, all of this must be defined by the Constitution and become part of constitutional matter. The National Security Council should now not only be the highest, but also the only co-ordination body for the security issue of the Republic of Serbia. All of this should be governed by the Constitution, not only by special laws. With regard to the proposed legal solutions, one general assessment of the professional public is that it is in some way a step backwards because of certain trends seen in amendments and additions to the proposed laws, which are increasing the discretionary powers of the person in the security sector. This may be most visible in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Act, where we have the discretionary rights of the Agency’s director, which extend to the scope of the Agency’s organisation and management of human resources, and to the detriment of transparency of the Agency’s work control. At the same time, it was required to specify which conditions the candidate person for the director of the agency must meet with regard to expertise and work experience. Then we have an extension of the range of data considered classified, which brings in some way confusion to the general law governing the protection of the confidentiality of data and the extent of data that security structures must be reported by the civil sector, businesses and the like, as is the case in the proposed amendments to the Defence Act, where the economy should provide data that are estimated to be relevant to the defence. It's one of the proposed changes. Of course, we have this one, let me say, business question, which is the privatisation of the dedicated industry, where, in fact, it is said to be a capitalisation and that it will not go through the co-ownership relationship 49:51 in favour of the Republic of Serbia. However, we have had such cases of these recapitalisations of strong companies in the domestic economy, stronger and some weaker. What I'm saying is that the ratio of the share in capital is not, of course, the only criterion where the scale of investment is, because having a 49:51 ownership relationship is not the ultimate indicator. We have an example of "Er Serbia" and we have various mechanisms, where, in fact, the scale of investments can, with the help of these mechanisms, be exceeded to the detriment of the Republic of Serbia, through a variety of requests from creditors who can fall under political influence and agree to write down claims, such as the airport, for example, written off claims from "Er Serbia" or, say, taking commitments, as we also have a situation in "Er Serbia". I received a recent response from the finance minister to the parliamentary issue, where I am explicitly responsible from the finance ministry for the commitment of "Er Serbia", which the Republic of Serbia has activated the guarantee to settle a loan that "Er Serbia" cannot settle, so the taxpayers and the Republic of Serbia are 30.7.2017, on that day 656 million dinars. For example, it is not an investment in ownership and it does not touch that relationship of 49:51%, but when you look at, say, you will come up with the fact that the entire 150m euros, for example, Serbia has invested in "Er Serbia" and that the percentage of ownership remains unchanged. I believe that it is likely to be a similar thing with companies from the dedicated industry, and recently I have read statements from ministry representatives who claim, as of September 2017, that the dedicated industry is something that is expected by great growth and a major financial injection of the state to export up to a billion euros, that it is extremely profitable. The question arises - why is recapitalisation needed to finance investments in an industry that government representatives are praised for doing extremely well? So that's something that's contradictory. I'd like to look back now on a few things from concrete legal proposals. Among other things, I would refer to some things that should have been regulated by these proposed amendments and amendments of the law, which they did not, unfortunately. First of all, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, the proposed amendments will make a confusion of the jurisdiction of the civilian and military police, because it is proposed that the military police, according to the defence minister's decision, also provide for persons outside the army system, and that it is not specified by which criteria are determined exactly which persons are to be dealt with. Some of the colleagues also mentioned this as a problematic provision. Then it was suggested that the military police no longer have the obligation to hand over their goals without delay to the civilian police. Thereafter, no amendments and additions to the Law on Defence are provided for in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the members which regulate inspection oversight in the field of the military. It is not yet defined and neither will these amendments of the law be defined who appoints and resolves the Director of the Defence Inspectorate, so the Chief Inspector and for what period of time. The appointment of the Director of the Defence Inspectorate should be particularly regulated by law, as the Director of the Defence Inspectorate should be the institution of the internal control of the entire defence system, and in practice it is a formation post for the rank of generals, and appointed by the President on a proposal from the Minister of Defence for an unlimited period of time. Why hasn't an amendment been made in the sense of adding Article 16a of the Law, where it would be prescribed that the Director of the Inspectorate be appointed by the Government or the President of the Republic for a period of five years? Why is it not explicitly prescribed under what conditions can the Director of the Defence Inspectorate be resolved by modelling the VBA and VOA solutions? Why, for example, is no provision under which the Director of the Defence Inspectorate would submit an annual report to the National Assembly, as also prescribed in the case of the General Inspector of the Military Service? Direct reporting to the National Assembly would significantly strengthen democratic control and control over the Ministry of Defence and the military, and through the integration of internal and external mechanisms of control and control. Also, the draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act does not cover members 71a and 71a. These are provisions that regulate scientific and research work by which, if consistently applied, practically all scientific and research institutes, colleges, organisations would have an obligation to potentially supply all their data to the Ministry of Defence, because all research could be declared relevant, which would disproportionately burden them, and it is unclear how the Ministry of Defence would process all that information. I mean, it's illogical to expect the Department of Defense to develop capacities that would process all that information and issue approvals for all living research that could have something to do with the defense. It's simple, it's not meaningful. So the provisions are inaccurate, they should have been changed. In addition, these provisions are unconstitutional, likely, in conflict with Article 73. A constitution guaranteeing freedom of scientific research, a member of 46, which guarantees freedom of opinion and expression, a member of the 51st Law of Notification, a member of the 72nd autonomy of the university, as well as members of the 83rd freedom of entrepreneurship and position on the market. Those provisions of Articles 71 and 71a should be amended. Of course, it is legitimate interest of the Ministry of Defence to encourage research that would improve the policy and material and technical capacity of the defence system, the operational capabilities of the military and others, but this legitimate interest can be achieved by calling a tender for the allocation of resources for scientific and research work with defined research objectives. In the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Act, the law has, above all, the aim of these amendments and amendments to the law to regulate the problem of human resources, but does not seem to do so in a comprehensive manner. If there is already a detailed regulation of the conditions that must be met by the persons who want to work in the Agency, as well as the way they progress. At the same time, it was expected to provide for conditions to be met by a person who could be appointed director of the BIA. It could also be used here by the VBA and VOA Act, which prescribes that a person who has completed general staff training and who has at least nine years of working experience on intelligence and security work in the defence system could be appointed to the director of these agencies and their deputies. Most of the laws on civil, security-intelligence agencies in the environment, Montenegro, Croatia, for example, the Czech Republic and many other EU countries, contain provisions that the executive authority must, prior to the appointment of the director, consult the committee of parliament which is responsible for the control of the security service. This would, in fact, make BIA directorial function relevant to this strengthened civilian, democratic control and avoid political instrumentalisation such an important function. Neither does this amendment contain any provision on BIA Deputy Directors. The conditions and procedure for the Deputy Director of BIA are usually the same as for the Director himself, and some countries such as. Croatia has an additional condition for the appointment of deputies to go to the service director's proposal. We don't have those provisions. Finally, it is common for security services laws to prescribe conditions and procedures for the replacement of directors and their deputies. The proposal does not contain any provision on the Academy of National Security as a professional institution, created on a specific need by the BIA to have a professionally trained staff. If the employment of diplomats of this academy is not predetermined, then the employment will depend on the will of politicians, and besides, in Serbia, we have a large number of higher education institutions and college programs that have security for their case, so it is questionable – what is one of these educational institutions that will educate people in fact for the National Employment Service? Otherwise, the Academy itself was established by the Government in April 2013 as a higher education institution of special national interest and means for the establishment and start of the Academy's work were provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is precisely within the resources of the identified BIA. And it is budgeted that this educational institution serves the BIA. In essence, the amendments to the BIA Act represent the legalisation of existing practice and it is very worrying, because in conditions where mechanisms and bodies of control do not work effectively, there is a large area of arbitration, especially if these changes are linked to the latest increase in the BIA budget for 2018. With regard to the decision and the Annual Plan of Use of the military and other defence forces in the multinational operations of 2018, we have, for example, the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission in Libya, which runs until 30 March 2018, if I have looked at the calendar well, it has passed. We're practically making a decision about something that's been through. The participation was covered by a decision of 2016, which was made on 10 November 2016 for 2016 and no decision for 2017. So, in this respect, we also have further degradation of parliamentary control and reduction of the control function of the National Assembly over military security structures, because the existing solution is detailed on the basis of which strategic documents are produced – the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategic Review of the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, which all ministries are competent to take part in the development of this annual plan from their domain, to produce it on the basis of the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and the available material and financial resources and, inter alia, for the control of the availability of these material and financial resources, it is envisaged that the same adoption of the National Assembly, not the Government. The proposed amendments to the National Assembly now need to make only a time-limited decision on missions involving security forces, which only contain names and mandates, with no insight into the detailed plan and without involvement of the Assembly in its adoption, as this will be done by the government on a proposal from the ministry. The overall role of the National Assembly in decision-making and, in general, in further democratic control and control of military security structures is the general impression that they will be demoted by such proposed laws. I would like to thank you for your attention in this part of the debate. I'll leave some time for my colleagues after the principle debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33717	Thank you, colleague Gjuric. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33718	I thank you for your remarks, and now just to clarify that a little bit. As far as BIA's jurisdiction is concerned, it has not had any new jurisdiction, since the establishment of the Agency and has the same competence as it has so far. It signs the solutions because, as in any other body, the Director signs the solutions. Of course he can't hire whoever he wants. There are procedures, it's very precise who meets certain criteria. That you don't put it in an ad and you don't make it public, that's another thing, but everything is very clear and envisaged within the body itself, and the body is controlled, as you know, among other things, by this Parliament. As far as Serbia's defence industry is concerned, you know, money is being sought, capitalized when something is worth something, when you have something. If we'd done it in 2012, we wouldn't have gotten anything. In 2012, just to tell you, Serbia's defence industry had 154m-dollar contracts. This year there are contracts worth $713m and over 3,500 more people employed than in 2012. You're looking for capitalization when it's worth it. It's like if you sold the airport in 2012, that's exactly how you'd earn it, and look how much you made today. You know, we need to be realistic, are we sure that the opportunities in the world, on the battlefields, will always be this, conditionally speaking, favourable to our defence industry in Serbia? Is there always going to be a demand for this product and the program that we have, or should we prepare ourselves for money and beyond all the technology that we can't get to in another way and get ready for some next step, for some time next? Today, as you can see, wars that are now current, we're talking about the arms industry, can't be very nice, it's so simple, you're selling something that's not the most beautiful thing in the world, you're selling the means that will kill another human being, but that's so, because it exists, are in a technological sense very primitive. These are untrained large armies that spend large amounts of ammunition. We manufacture ammunition. We're in the first place ammunition production. Is it gonna be like that in 10 years? I don't know, but that's why we need to be ready now to get the money and technology that's gonna get us ready in 10 or 20 years. That's what we need to know and think. As far as the confidentiality of data is concerned, let me just tell you that in the past law, this is what the norm read – classified information relating to the defence system marked as data of interest for national security and the defence system under the provisions of this special law are protected in accordance with the law. That's all. That means it could have been anything, and now it's all precise, very precise what it could have been. So we've tied our own hands in this sense and determined exactly what that is, what data is. If we wanted the data to be wide and no one could control us, we'd leave an old solution. So I expected that support, not criticism, but good. And that's okay. As for the military's obligation to hand over the arrested persons to the civilian police, it's not our decision. That's the CAP. The D.C. is bringing in the D.A.'s office, and it's the prosecutor who orders us where we take the arrested persons or not. It has nothing to do with our decision and it has nothing to do with this law. So, the CAP is the law that regulates this behavior, no other, and it has nothing to do with us. It's probably just a question of misunderstanding. As far as the Inspectorate is concerned, there is a general at the head of the Inspectorate. The President of the Republic must sign every general order on the appointment of the Generality of the Generality. Commander-in-chief. So there's no way to do that without, as you can see, strict civilian control. The Minister of Defence proposed, Commander-in-chief i.e. The President of the Republic accepts it or does not accept it because it is the General. There's no other way. What you asked for, and you explicitly said that the President of the Republic decided on it, no one else can decide on it, it's just like that. Of course, the inspector informs the Minister of Defence and the President of the Republic. So she's fully respected exactly the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33719	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, colleague Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33720	Thank you. Just a short replica. Let's start from behind, from the Inspectorate General. The proposal of the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy is to supplement the law, to prescribe that the inspector is elected for five years. Now it's unlimited. The proposal is to go with the election, to be appointed by the Government or the President of the Republic, but the point is limited to five years. As for the obligation of the military police to bring civilians to the civilian police, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law have been proposed to delete a provision stating that she must do so without delay. When we have a discussion in particular, if the amendment comes into order, we have suggested that the provision be not deleted, or that the obligation be kept to bring the military police to civilian police without delay, as it says in the existing law. As regards the confidentiality of data, the amendment, when the time comes for discussion, will propose that the confidentiality of data contained in the Internal Planning and Systematization Act of BIAs be adopted in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act, which clearly requires that the data and information, rather than their carriers, be marked by a degree of secrecy, because a certain medium, therefore, may contain a particular document or act, which are secret and which are not secret. So, according to the law that regulates the confidentiality of data, not like this, at the level of the whole act, as proposed by the bill. That's what we're proposing. Finally, for the end of the replica, to literally stop in two minutes, as far as the capitalization of the dedicated industry is concerned, capitalization does not mean sales, so that we sell when it's worth it. The capitalisation is one of the funds and ways of financing the growth of a particular company, one of the ways to acquire the financial resources to be invested in the company's development. Finally, if it's a business worth it and it's profitable, why is the state going out and leaving a co-ownership stake in some business that's worth it, that's profitable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33721	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33722	Thank you, Chairman. Honored representatives of the ministry, respected representatives of the Serbian Army, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens who follow the course of our today's session, I would first of all like to welcome the honorary officers of the Serbian Army and to express my deep respect for the Serb army and the entire Serbian Movement Group of the Dvora, for everything our Army has done in defending our country in the country's war between 1991 and 1999. I don't think we can ever do enough, and we haven't highlighted enough the role of our army, which is not by chance the most popular and respected institution of the Serb people besides the SPC. What is very important, and we have often talked about and initiated various solutions to highlight it, and among other things, that one declaration of honor is being brought here and one declaration of honor to all those who gave their lives for the homeland, is something that we think should always be stressed, because we today would not live in peace that someone in our time in the country wars was not ready to give his life for our freedom and for our peace today. I felt one duty and obligation to say this on behalf of the Dvori parliamentary group, because otherwise the military traditions of the Serb people are bright and can truly serve us as a people. So, of course, we approach this debate with the greatest possible respect for this topic, and we want to make a certain contribution in a constructive sense, in order to, whether or not, commend all that is good, and of course try to correct it, which we did through certain amendments, something that we think is not good enough or bad enough. As I've done before, I'd like to start with the good stuff first. So, not all things are bad when we speak as opposition against the government and it would be unfair to say that everything that the government does is bad, but we also have to say it, and you are angry or angry, and it's not all good that the government does. In this sense, I would first of all like to highlight the agreement with the Republika Srpska. It is one thing that should be found on the agenda at every meeting of the National Assembly, that we should extend our special co-operation agreement with Republika Srpska over and over again. It is only the air force, i.e. the training of pilots, the remont of helicopters and other important things, but I ask you, Mr. Minister and all other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to step up to the maximum special link between Serbia and Republika Srpska. I am telling you, I am telling you -- count, you will always have the vote of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora parliamentary group for every initiative concerning special ties between Serbia and Republika Srpska, regardless of what we are the opposition here in the House of National Assembly. The second thing, of course, we support publicly and however you want, is modernisation, arms and better equipment of the Republic of Serbia's Army. So you can always count on our support, and I think it's of great importance because the country's defence security is something that must certainly be among the priorities of state policy. Also something that we absolutely mean, just so we know that we are pointing out something that is good at the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that we have not become a member of the criminal and aggressive NATO pact and that we have significantly expanded and deepened military co-operation with Russia and Belarus. It is something that, of course, is in the programme of the Serbian Movement of the Dveri and, in that sense, until this state and this government go towards a certain NATO membership and imposes sanctions on the Russian Federation, it is something that will absolutely always have the support of the Dvori. Of course, here they end up somewhere, so to speak, the good or positive things I could say about the Government of the Republic of Serbia on all these issues and I am now opening up a series of other issues that I find extremely problematic. Let's start in order, from the army of Serbia, where many things, Mr. Minister, are problematic. They are problematic, above all, wages, that is, receiving members of the Serbian Army and that is something you know better than I do, and I would like that information to be made public, how many members of the Serbian Army have left the Serbian Army in the last few years. Find me some time interval that suits you. My data suggests that it is several thousand members of the Serbian Army, but here, you give us the exact information and the reasons for leaving a Serbian Army member in such an abnormally large number, and it is thousands of members of the Serbian Army. The second big and problematic question is the retirement of our war officers, who are the elites of the Serbian Army, who, I say, have passed all the wars from 1991 to 1999 and they represent a kind of professional and human resources of the Serbian Army, including the Ministry of Defence. In this regard, it should be kept in mind that they should be undefined and placed in the capacity of maximum professional and any other skills of the Serbian Army. What is also important is the Union of Reserve Military Officers and Military Elders in general, because it is the most significant, in our opinion, we have one amendment to this subject, you will certainly pay attention to it, one of the associations of special importance that you provide in the law there, it is certainly necessary, of course, to play a significant role in the defence system. There are also a number of other problematic things that I wouldn't spend too much time on right now, but I am obliged to remind you that in the Ministry of Defence since 2000, we have to this strange NATO office all the time, and we don't know how securely we are, and controlled by NATO sitting in the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, or wherever these NATO representatives sit in the state of Serbia, which is absolutely unacceptable. Are we a sovereign state or are we occupied by NATO? I would remind you, Mr. Minister, that part of our territory is under occupation, that is Kosovo and Metohija, that we have never ended the war with the NATO Pact. We just made a truce in 1999. The war is still practically going on, as Kosovo and Metohija are under NATO's occupation. Of course, I would remind you that there has never been an end to the spying process from one of the most important and best ever carried out activities of the military security service, when, in its time of 2002, the Deputy Prime Minister and former Chief of Staff Momcilo Perisic were arrested, directly teaching military secrets to the then CIA chief for Balkan John Neibor. Is it possible that for 16 years we haven't completed a trial against someone who's been betraying state, military secrets to foreign intelligence agents, and does that happen again today? What I want to say here is very specific about certain legal solutions, and I'm going to start with multinational operations. We had sex last year here at the House of the National Assembly. We are absolutely against the use of members of the Serbian Army in any foreign so-called foreign state. multinational operations and any crisis and war spots in the world. That's not our part. We don't need to do that. We have our own hotspots, we have our own problems. We have a small army in the land's security zone at our borders. Otherwise, we have few members of the regular military staff and I have to draw your attention to what the Dvori had talked about many times before, which is the return of regular military service as an extremely important matter. Mr. Minister, I like to hear your opinion, do you think anyone who didn't serve the army should work in the state service? Is there anyone who didn't serve the army supposed to be at the highest state level? Can anyone who wasn't prepared to serve their country run this country in any way? Like, I'd like to hear your opinion on that. Why are these peace operations controversial to us? Here, for example, you are stating in one of these materials that the EU civilian crisis management mission is setting up on the basis of decisions of the EU Council, such a multinational operation, and our Ministry of the Interior is planning an engagement, and in line with the needs of the EU's call. So, what does that mean? Did we matter to the EU? Why are we not an EU member of the EU something, why are we part of their peace operations? The other thing is humanitarian operations. There are humanitarian operations here, and we have the absolute willingness to support you in sending members of the Serbian Army and the MUP into humanitarian operations. You don't have our support past the humanitarian operations. Otherwise, in order for the public to be better acquainted, 700 members of the Serbian Army and 11 members of the MUP participate in multinational operations. Is that too much, Mr. Minister? Who here will deal with certain needs of the Serbian Army? On the other hand, money. Allow me, 1.8 billion dinars from the Serbian state budget are going to our participation in multinational operations. We have a much greater need to invest that 1.8 billion dinars, Mr. Minister. Why should we throw them aside from multinational operations? Did we cause these crises, did we create these problems in Africa, are we the cause of these wars or any other catastrophes? Why should we solve these problems? We have enough of our own problems. Of course, what you have now introduced with these amendments to the law, that now, practically, our members continue to engage and in the following year until the adoption of the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. What does that mean? Here, half a year, we haven't adopted a plan, and someone's gonna keep doing it on that inert. What does this mean, that the National Assembly is losing its office, that half a year someone is already participating in some multinational operations without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? That, believe me, is absolutely inadmissible. What I also want to point out as positive, but only in principle, because I have some objections here, are these other agreements with Greece, Romania and Israel, although there are difficult places, I must admit, Mr. Minister. About Republika Srpska, I absolutely believe that everything is right, while, for example, in the case of a memorandum of co-operation with Greece, it also mentions that multinational forces are engaged in EU-led operations, which is therefore controversial for us and thus the memorandum is disputed from that corner. See what it says in Article 8 of the Agreement with Romania – while staying in the territory of the State of the receiving State representative of the sending country is regulated on the basis of the provisions of the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the participating States in a partnership for peace. What does that mean, we're doing NATO pact rules, we're making agreements with Romania according to NATO pact rules? Is this the famous Sofa Agreement, as it is said here, signed in Brussels on 19 June 1995, under which, when NATO troops pass through the territory of the Republic of Serbia do not have to pay any costs, do not answer for any crimes committed, use, say, the capabilities of the Republic of Serbia Army and, generally, can do what they want? Is that the agreement, so we should be handling it in co-operation with Romania? Of course, the question of Israel is a serious question, cooperation absolutely yes, but this is serious co-operation, co-operation in the area of military, defence, defence industrial. You believe that these are sensitive things, especially at these times of crisis, when, as you can see, in Syria, there is a great intensity between various international factors and factors, in which, of course, Israel also participates. What I'd like to point out now, and it's very important, is what's about what's so-called. Privatisation or, as you say correctly, capitalization of our dedicated industry. I can't understand, Mr. Minister, why it's done. I would ask you very specifically – why have we so far excluded the dedicated industry from privatisation? Well, for national security. Who has now come up with and for what reason is it no longer a topic of national security, but now we can capitalize, or privatize up to 49% of the ownership of our dedicated industry? Be careful, and other companies in the area of the dedicated industry that are not part of the group, Serbia's defence industry can also privatise with over 50% of foreign-owned capital. Is that true? Which, therefore, are companies, which are subject to majority-owned purchases by foreigners, and from the area of the dedicated industry in Serbia? So it's a serious thing and it's not for the game. I don't see, I'd like you to explain to me, if our companies are profitable in the area of the dedicated industry, why do we capitalize when they make such a huge profit and work well? Don't you need all those resources to stay in our hands, first question? The second question – do you realize that 49% of the secrecy of the data is given to someone who will become co-owner of the dedicated industry in Serbia? Can you explain to me, here, from the corner of the Department of Defense which is our interest here to reveal the secrecy of our data, that we are jeopardizing national security, that our stranger enters all our enterprises in the dedicated industry? Wait, please, will they let us enter their businesses to see what they're doing in the dedicated industry of any other country? What I would also point out here, of course, I think that, Mr. Minister, you are paying insufficient attention to the activities of the Military Union of Serbia. I think it is very honorable and serious officers of the Serbian Army that their demands are very justified, especially when it comes to receiving and material status of members of the Army. I also think that this persecution of Novica Antic, president of Serbia's Military Union, is inadmissible and that it is a kind of retribution and verbal delinquent, which was practically introduced in Serbia's military. I don't think you should deal with the honorary officers of the Republic of Serbia, just because they said and noticed corruption at the General Staff or at the top of the Army, or because they said they had minimal incomes, that soldiers were leaving the Army of Serbia under contract, that there were numerous problems with military equipment, that there was not enough regular military staff, etc. So, they point to problems and irregularities in the Serbian Army. That's no reason for the Military Union to suffer any persecution, and for his president to have some sort of retribution. Of course, in the end one topic, which is definitely mentioned here and we'll all agree it's very sensitive, that's the BIA theme. We consider it unacceptable to adopt a provision that provides that the Act on Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Agency brings the Agency's director, with the previous consent of the Government to the truth, as it will give too broad authority to political entities in matters of staff policy. Why do I tell you this, Mr. Minister? Because he is already a director of the Agency, a man with no connection to the intelligence sector so far, a man who has never worked in any segment of security in Serbia, nor in the military, nor in the police, nor even a lawyer, nor had anything to do with the sector, he was appointed there as a confidential person of the president of Serbia, the president of the SNS and as the former successful party Administrator of the SNS. If this is the criteria for selecting the Director of the Agency, tell me in which other country of the world is this criterion, that you appoint your party listener as the Director of the most important Security Information Agency? What's his expertise? On what basis of his expertise will he then ask without competition and without question anyone further employed by the BIA? Believe me, that really seems unserious. Also, the proposed amendment change, and you'll see that we are here, I say, in several places intervened and protecting actually public interest to prevent further politicization of BIA. What is our position, absolutely, is sensitive and important security issues, and in the event of inadequate personnel policy, the security of the Serbian state is at stake. So we can't let anyone run the BIA. We can't let anyone else hire him anyway he wants to go to the BIA. We cannot allow this Agency to be the subject of party employment of members of the SNS or other factors of the ruling coalition. If we allow it, it is a threat to the security of the Serbian state. We are used to the ruling SNS, the majority politicizing all public services and without competition hiring party listeners in all branches of the state service, but we believe that playing with basic security interests is too much for those petty party parties even for SNS. And finally, Mr. Minister, something really painful, I was present at a joint session of several assembly committees, on the matter of a security incident that took place during the arrest of KIM Director Mark Djuric at KIM. Of course, I have committed myself to respecting the secrecy of the information that I had at that closed session at that time, which I will, of course, respect, but I am obliged to ask you a few questions regarding the serious security situation at KIM. First of all, what does the Serbian Army plan and what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia plan in the event of attempted violent occupation of the north of KIM or any other incident in KIM territory under occupation? I'll remind you that we've only had a break-in so-called two times. Special units, so-called Kosovo, Rosa's independence to the north of KIM and both times provoked by Marko Djuric. The first time he took a train from Belgrade, and the second time he entered KIM, he had no security assessment of how his dangerous adventure would end. Now I ask you - is it normal for any official and senior official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to go to KIM without the consent of the BIA, without the consent of the military security services, without a security assessment of what will happen to him there, without security and the ability to protect himself, because his leadership and arrest is not a disgrace to Mark Djuric, but to the states of Serbia and all the security services that allowed it. So either it has to be someone in the security department who did a bad assessment and didn't protect a high-ranking state official or a high-ranking state official who went there without a safety assessment and without the support of the security service.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33723	Thank you. The replica first.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33724	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the army, he has just welcomed you, as honorary officers of the Serbian army, a man who was the ideological follower of Dimitri Ljotic, who during World War II was Kvisling and who served the Germans. All L Joticians who fled Yugoslavia in 1944 and 145, and some today live to receive pensions from the Federal Republic of Germany, as members of the German Vermacht. That's what you need to know when you're welcomed by the gentleman who spoke before me. As far as the SOF agreement is concerned, it is signed, it is also respected as some mistake of yours and your political gaff, so SOF's agreement was signed in 2005 and not in 1995, as the previous speaker said, at the time the government of Vojislav Kostunica existed in Serbia, which, among other things, also financed its movement through the Colubara, via the Diaspora Ministry, etc. As for Bratislav Gasic, director of the BIA, I see that many here have turned to this man. Bratislav Gasic, above all, meets all the requirements prescribed by law to be BIA director and there is no dilemma about it. As regards the Regulation on the Systematization of Jobs in the BIA, as you Mr. Ministers in your Ministry of Labour Systematization Regulation, it is quite normal for the BIA's work systematization regulation to be carried out by the BIA director.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33725	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33726	It's never good to have a personal discussion, because we're hearing here that someone doesn't like the BIA director. Let me tell you right now that Bratislava Gasic was an extremely good minister, that he is an excellent BIA director and that he will have extraordinary results, as he already has. So we can only be satisfied about that choice and not any other way. This law regulates a system which allows BIA's director to work in full capacity and BIA to work in full capacity. Like all the military laws that we're discussing here, we bring with agreement and after a long debate within the system. Each part of the defence ministry's system and the Serbian Army gave its opinion and eventually agreed to each of the provisions, so it was with the BIA. So these are the laws that serve the system, not who is in charge of them, but I repeat once again Bratislav Gasic is good news for the BIA and excellent BIA director, just like he was an excellent defence minister. We, as we know, raised relations with Republika Srpska to the highest possible level. We are the first government and this was on the initiative of then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, introduced four common dates that we mark with the government of Republika Srpska. No one's ever done that before. We're the ones doing this and deepening special relationships and special relationships. Let me just say that in the past and this year over three million euros, we have arranged jobs with Republika Srpska's Defence Industry, over three million euros, and that enables the defence industry to live. I think it's of great importance and it says what the orientation of this government is and how we do it. As for the elders, retired officers of our army, of course they are our treasure and of course we're proud of them. That's why we're working on it, the return of those who can be, with their professional qualities that deserve it, that where possible, and in the first place when I say possible, I mean lectures at our school institutions, where they can convey their knowledge and their experience. We've done it before, nobody's done it before, and we do it. I must say that the war is over by the signing of a military-technical agreement in Kumanovo and its title is – Conditions for the termination of hostilities. So there was no capitulation like some people like to say, but conditions to break hostilities. That's how NATO's aggression against the SRJ ended. Among other things, by adopting Resolution 1244, which defines KIM as a territory under UN provisional administration. Since they are under UN temporary administration, we are calling for Resolution 1244, we are one of the UN members, and then it is quite logical that we be and participate among other things in the peace missions that these UN are conducting. There's nothing that can be bad for us, on the contrary, that doesn't just allow our soldiers and our officers to perfect themselves. It also allows our entire army to adopt new knowledge, to meet new challenges, everything the modern world in which we live requires and expects of us. When you said 700, it's not 700 at one time, 700 soldiers and officers. It's a total of 700 soldiers and officers, doctors, medical staff, who will be on duty in all rotations of the year. Somewhere around 300, 318 of them will be at one time. So there's never 700 of them. Let's get this straight. When we talk about the SOF agreement, I thank you for the intervention, but I want to tell you that the Sofa Agreement is only active when the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives approval for each individual case. It's not something that's ad hoc and what's up front and what's for everybody. Every single case has to be announced, and we have to give consent whether we do it or not. Also, however it may seem, let us not underestimate our country, this agreement is determined on the basis of reciprocity. It means our army can move that way. Let's not laugh at our country, of course, never expect from our country, see how you laugh, don't expect from our country, it's irrelevant, it never, maybe will. We may need the passage of our troops sometime. Let's not laugh before it happens, maybe it will. We'll see. I always believe in my country and believe in its power and believe that we may need it. On the subject of the Partnership for Peace, as you know, we are a military neutral country and we have told everyone – our level of co-operation with NATO, the optimal level of co-operation is the Partnership for Peace. Just to remind everyone who doesn't know, and I think most of them know, there are members in the Partnership for Peace and the Russian Federation and Belarus. If someone needs an excuse, and we don't need any justification, that's our interests, we think that's how we should do it. If we are afraid of privatising Serbia's defence industry, then this law must be supported by both sides, because Serbia's defence industry is now in no way segregated from the Privatisation Act. Now she can privatize however you want. And only thanks to the government's firm decision and the government's political decision is not privatized, otherwise it could be privatized today, until we pass the law immediately. As far as the law is concerned, the Law on Privatisation, the Serbian defence industry, is exactly the same as some state-owned car transport company, as "Lasta". It's exactly the same. It doesn't make any difference. It can be sold immediately. Once we pass this law, it becomes of particular importance to the functioning of the state and no longer can be sold. You can capitalize up to 49%, and when we talk about a foreign investor, no foreign investor can have 49% but 15%. He can't do more than that. He can't. As we talked about, I don't know how much you've been listening and were you in the O.R. when we talked about it, but if you're afraid that someone's gonna come by, take all our secrets, so why do you think it can't be a Serbian citizen? Why do you think one of the directors of our defense industry or any industry can't be a foreign agent? Do you think that by being a Serbian citizen, he is protected from being a foreign agent? No, a foreign agent is becoming a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and how that can happen. Now, in order that wouldn't happen, whether it's a stranger or our citizen, for any classified information that's very precise, focus on it, read it, maybe it's boring, it's tiring, there's a lot of pages, but read how it's regulated what's all the secret information in this law. In order for someone to handle classified information, he has to get a certificate of secrecy. So, about the ability to read classified information, and that certificate doesn't even issue it by the Ministry of Defense, but it issues the National Security Council Office. The defence ministry, as I have already pointed out, is conducting a special and very thorough investigation, literally, for someone who would like to become co-owner of one of Serbia's defence industry companies. And only when it's over, when it's over, goes to the government. And after that, he has to get a certificate of confidentiality, that he's even able to manage and handle it. So you can't get into it. And it's the only dam. And if this passport or that passport, you'll admit it's less important. Here, you were saying, you suspected some people of being spies or whatever, and these are our citizens. So, and how can our citizen be suspected of anything or specifically what you said? I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33727	The next speaker is MP Ana Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33728	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ministers, distinguished representatives of the Ministry and representatives of the General Staff, it is a great pity that we have united such an important set of laws in just one item of the agenda, since the laws are so important that we should pay every one's considerable and desired attention and discuss them in detail. What does this matter? Because there is a legitimate fear and danger of amending the Law on Defence, about the military, about the BIA can destroy the security system and the degree of fragile democracy in our country anyway. As representatives of the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy noted in the public debate, the new legal solutions proposed in the area of security are worse than those currently being applied, as they can lead to system collapse and are a step backwards from previous practice. At this time, their representatives stressed the poor provisions in the amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, on the Serbian Army, on the BIA and pointed out that other than the bad solutions offered, much more concerns the way these changes and trends that are seen in the security sector are being carried out. The conclusion of this debate was that the proposed changes that we should be discussing are destroying everything that has been achieved in the previous period, and that the discretionary rights of politicians at the top of the system are growing, while human rights of citizens are collapsing. I believe that the ministry and the government believe that these changes will contribute to the acceleration of the European path of the Republic of Serbia, but the professional public does not share that view, but believes that the possible adoption of these laws will reduce the level of responsibility of the government and reach the level of democracy. I can also praise the fact that it is good that the state of Serbia has recognised the need to change legislation from this area, but I argue that what is foreseen for the change should not be changed and that it can be multiplely harmful. For example, amendments to the military law extend the powers of the military police to provide people outside the military, following the defence minister's decision. I would therefore ask the minister – why can't the interior ministry do these jobs, or is there a danger of the military turning into private security, which will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Also, there is a disputed provision under which the military police will no longer have to the civilian police to hand over the civilians they have brought in without delay. When we talk about the Defence Act, the MP's group "Enough Has Been" considers it a terriblely bad solution to be very broadly defined which data are hidden from the defence system, although it is not a questionable need for one part of the data from that system to be protected. Here I do not dispute the need for the military and the Ministry of Defense to have counterintelligence protection, but not in this way as provided for by the law. I will also refer to important amendments to the BIA Act and potential abuse possibilities. Namely, the lack of an effective civil security control mechanism, which has already been discussed by opposition colleagues, the fact that the BIA director is a party official and that after the adoption of the amendments to the law, he will have the right to hire anyone without competition, which somehow suggests that party employment can occur, and that the budget of the service increases almost every year, suggests the abuse of the Security Information Agency for political purposes. The fact is it's hard to prove it explicitly, but let's just remember the painful experiences of not so long ago political past, when members of the Service were the tools of the authorities to deal with people who were designated opponents of the regime. Significant criticism about the lack of competition, which I mentioned earlier, the organisation "Transparency of Serbia" also noted. Namely, they criticised the proposed amendments to the BIA Act in exactly the part that regulates that future BIA officials will not be required to compete in employment. Also, "Transparency of Serbia" has also stated that two issues are being raised if the word of the government and the Agency is to be trusted that this change is really necessary and that the Agency should not be obliged to call a employment competition. For "Transparency of Serbia", for example, the first question was how could it be proposed at the end of August 2017 to pass the law by emergency procedure, if it is known that the Law on the Police who created the problems was brought in January 2016, and secondly, how the BIA managed to fulfil its legal obligations in the past two years, it is true from February 6, 2016, when the Law on the Police began to apply, until today. Let us also remind ourselves that seven months have passed since the National Assembly was sent an urgent procedure to amend and supplement the BIA Act. In fact, an emergency procedure is justified by questioning otherwise the Agency's ability to effectively protect the regulation and security of the Republic of Serbia. Seven months later, when the proposal finally comes before us MPs, it turns out that the BIA functioned normally without any earthquake. We also remember last year's debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget, when we just resented that the BIA budget is projected to be increased by 18% compared to last year, without details of how this money will be spent. At the time, we wondered what was a secret in the BIA, but the government claimed that the Security Control Committee had adopted in 2013 the conclusion that the security services budgets were only shown in total, as otherwise information could be made about operational and functional capabilities of the security service. The amendments to the BIA Act have been criticised from the very beginning by experts, opposition colleagues, a significant part and the NGO sector, and the Commissioner for Public Information Rodoljub Sabic compared the proposal to the constitution. That warnings about the possible abuse of the service should be taken seriously testifying to the killings of the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, that is, Yugoslavia, Zoran Djindjic and Ivan Stambolic. In fact, doubts in the work of the BIA have fuelled information about the increase in the number of citizens, which the BIA is unfortunately listening to. Not only did abuses occur at the highest state level have been testified recently by an inspector for the prevention of economic crime in Nis Nebojsa Blatić, who warned that working under the orders of the Ministry of Criminal Police of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior on cases concerning serious abuses in the economy during the investigation revealed that data from police verifications through the BIA and certain political structures are reaching the directors of a company whose work is being investigated. One of the main problems is that there is no effective civilian control of the security services that I was just talking about. Also, bear in mind that you do not only view these objections as a mere criticism of the opposition, but that you understand the suspicions of a large part of the public, but also a fellow from the opposition, given that there is a person who is a party official or a party official at the head of the BIA, because it is not yet precisely clear. I also believe that you will understand the view that it is difficult to assess the work of the Security Service, unless their priorities and plans are known, so that it can be seen from them what has been achieved and what has not been achieved. Therefore, all disputed cases, with a lack of information, show that it is either the abuse of the security sector or its ineffectiveness. Among the most serious regrets are the planned large discretionary powers of the director. By studying European practice, namely in this area, I see that at the head office of security agencies, they put crazy from the profession with experience to people who again have concrete ties to politics. In the proposed legislative solution, the director is at the top, when it comes to human resources management, and that its setting, then criteria, conditions for its choice are not more detailed. It's just illogical, that someone who has so many powers that are not common to security-intelligence services, but is unusual and that there are no clearly prescribed mechanisms and conditions for the director of the intelligence agency. Finally, speaking of this law, I would end up with a question, which is why the government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept the opinion of trustees Rodoljub Sabic, before sending a bill on amendments and additions to the Security and Information Agency Act. The reminders, Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic, expressed several critical observations and opinions indicating that they were contrary to the Constitution and other sublegal acts, but were not accepted by the government prior to their reference to parliament by an urgent procedure. The Commissioner also stressed that the draft BIA law contains solutions that are contrary to the Constitution or contrary to other relevant laws and that their adoption into the legal system would introduce additional confusion. It was the main remarks that concerned the solutions governing security checks and those governing the way in which the confidentiality of information is determined. With regard to security checks, it has been shown that it is very important to be governed by the law in a clear and unequivocal way, and that the majority remain unsettled, vague, fluid, and that they are contrary to the Constitution. Instead of doing the law itself, setting up important issues related to security checks, it comes down to the level of the sublegal act of the director of the agency itself. Also, solutions that edit classified data are contrary to fundamental solutions and the Data Securitisation Act. I also remind you that the remarks and suggestions of the BIA and the government have unfortunately not been accepted. I'd like to say a few words before the end about the Law on Production, Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. I will refer to a press release signed by the Grand Union of Industry, Energy and Mining "Independence". Namely, they asked for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure. This stance was justified by the argument that the state of Serbia has adopted a system of market economy, in which private and cooperative property is treated equally in addition to state property, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the "Independence" border union advocate the unspoken respect for the Constitution and law of the Republic of Serbia and believe that state property, with certainly good management, can be as effective as private property, as can be clearly seen in the case of state-owned companies in both economic and economic power countries and EU countries. Serbia's defence industry certainly has the resources of strategic importance for the state, so for these reasons the "Independence" border union believes that the privatisation of production resources of the dedicated and defence industries must be declared, not only by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also by representative trade unions, the professional public, as well as NGOs dealing with this topic. The "Independence" union believes that the proposed law on production, arms and military equipment is in contradiction with the Law on Privatisation, and gives great authority to the Ministry of Defence and minimises the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the proposed solutions are not in the interest of workers in Serbia's dedicated and defence industry, nor Serbia's own state. They also stressed that the deadlines for public debate are determined by military dictatorship, not democratic procedure, so they asked the government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw the law from the procedure. As we can see, that unfortunately didn't happen. The "Independence" branch union is against privatisation of Serbia's dedicated and defence industry and believes that the state must remain the owner of the company in the Fore and Defence Industry of Serbia, while investing in technological and innovative development and strengthening competitiveness in the arms and military equipment market is being provided from state credit arrangements. Also, we were wondering why the state would sell the Purpose and Defence Industry, if the government of the Republic of Serbia comes out with data that more and more revenues from arms and military equipment sales are increasing, as well as that these industries strongly encourage the development of the Serbian economy. Finally, I will refer to the comments of the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy and their comments, namely the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the application of the Republic of Serbia military and other defence forces in multinational operations. In the absence of a public debate, the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy pointed to changes that it considers problematic or insufficiently precise. I'm going to look back on those changes right now. At the end of 2017, a change of the law package concerning the defence system and the Republika Srpska Army was under way. While the Military and Defence Act went through the public debate process, although the public was not adequately informed that this was happening, for the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations, the public debate was not possible. Therefore, alterations and additions were required by emergency procedure. Given the nature of the proposed changes, as well as the fact that early this year, we are expected to have new strategic documents to which this law should certainly be brought into line, an emergency procedure cannot seem justified. What else is controversial here? It is also disputed that the control role of the National Assembly is limited. The amendment of Article 7 of the current law provides that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, is to decide on the use of the Republic of Serbia Army and other defence sides in multinational operations. Under the decision, the government adopts a detailed annual plan to realise Serbia's participation and other defence forces. It is also foreseen that the entire plan is being prepared by the Ministry of Defence in co-operation with the competent authorities, namely the current members of the 7th and 8th laws, a detailed annual plan adopted by the National Assembly on the basis of which it decides on the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. These changes certainly make the whole process more flexible and operational that it is not waiting for the National Assembly to approve the annual plan, but it reduces its control role. The proposed solution implies that the National Assembly makes a decision, a time-limited one containing the names and mandates of the mission, as well as the number of members of the Serbian Army who will be available for engagement. The relevant law empowering the National Assembly is much wider, for example through the adoption of the annual plan it has also controlled funding for participation in multinational operations, but the role of the Assembly in making decisions on participation in multinational operations is certainly important to ensure greater democratic legitimacy and to facilitate public debate, and it is important to find a balance between efficiency and democratic supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33729	The word is Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33730	I'm sorry, Madam President, I barely heard you. Thank you for giving me your word. Mr. Minister, distinguished fellows and Mr. Minister's officers and others, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we today have sets of laws from the military-security area. A while ago, I don't know if I'm sure, I mean at the pre-session of the Assembly we had a set of laws in the field of internal affairs and police law. Since it's already in a more advanced phase of developing a new national security strategy, I'm guessing we'll soon have a set of security-intelligence laws. These are exactly three segments, three components, three groups of laws that form the basic pillars of the national security strategy. I hope not, but I am sure that it is so that the change in the new National Security Strategy has taken place on the basis of a study of the country's security situation and of all the factors and factors and the situation within the country, as well as in the analytical assessment of the infactors in the plural, in particular international relations, in the International Community, that is, the International Community towards this country and everything else. If that is the case, the study will raise a national security strategy, then I would say in advance that it will be an extremely high quality and maximum need for this country to preserve the most important things, which is the country's security. Today's set of laws regarding the military and security of this country is very sensitive, and I think there are a lot of wrong views on this legal area today. We often find ourselves in a more advanced democracy and a habit of democratic relations in this country that in the military there is an excessively present degree, I would say, let me call it incoherence, that is, incoherent decision on many things. In addition, several speakers have also been asked to answer some questions, forgetting that this is an area from which not everything, not nearly anything, can be made transparent in this society and that regardless of the constitutional rights of all citizens of this country to know more, many things and many data from the military-security area cannot be made public. This is what I wanted to stress that under these conditions we look at these laws that are ahead of us and their quality, and from that aspect, from that cancer, I think we've got today for this session of all very high-quality laws. Laws, I'll say some things later, the laws in which you have, for me, even a surprisingly present democratic commitment to many decisions, as many conditions allow. When he spoke today, the minister answered some questions, very clearly, precisely and very accurately, he outlined this particular segment. The minister or dean of the school institution or the chief of staff or anyone who is said to be making a decision, I am fully aware of what the minister was saying, and otherwise from the laws themselves, to say that he is making a decision in fact is only the highest function that puts the signature on what was discussed in one, it would be said that the ultimate democratic process of making that decision and the minister was just explaining it. And I think that there is a lot of presence in these laws, and I think that the legislator can be given a lot of recognition in that sense. When it comes to these laws that are before us today, I'll say, I'll skip these two decisions, so I'll say something about them at the very end, you'll see why, but I'll say when it comes to the draft law on military education that it contains, to the greatest extent, exactly what I've been saying. I think it's extremely, comprehensively made up, that a very precise organization of complete education, clear competences in the system of education, even though all the specifics of war have been detained, let me say the conditionality contained in subordination and other epithets, is sufficient in that law, the degree of autonomy of the university and compared to civil universities is sufficient. All specifics of the military institution remain detained, but consistent with the interest and independence of the participants. The independence and expertise of institutions, bodies and educational-experienced work in them have been preserved. This law, by regulating the specificities of military education, I am convinced, will very much help and speed up the integration of military-school institutions and the entire military school system into the educational system of the Republic, I am convinced that it is one of its strongest qualities. As regards the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, I think that, in relation to the current law, there is much more detail in it, much has been complemented or incorporated as a new or strengthened obligation or defined as a non-existent obligation for citizens, institutions, natural and legal persons. For example, the present Article 102, which was contained in only two and a half rows, can already clearly show how many in two and a half rows could be said, so it was deleted and replaced by a new member in the volume of text from one side of a completely new text and a completely new significant content. In particular, it is important that it is significantly improved and created and provided a more favourable position for members of the Army, what the minister spoke about today in some answers. When I said that I would finally say, looking back on these laws, something about these decisions under point 1) and (2), only by the way. I would ask to be taken into account in the future, because there is something that is inadmissible, which I think is a mistake, which is that these decisions, as well as the report, which was given along with them, turns out that the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2017. It would seem foolish to consider now a plan for 2017 and along with it a report on the implementation of the annual plan of use of the Army in 2016, and adopted at a session of 12 December 2017, only. The same thing is with the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Army in multinational operations in 2017, and it turns out that we have only now to adopt it. It's obviously low and it's obviously reckless, so I just wanted to point out that it shouldn't, because it's ruining the impression of what I've been talking about ahead, even though it can be ignored, because it's obviously a technical mistake. As far as the BIA Act is concerned, I think improvements have been made and that the secured changes in it make and allow for a higher degree of integration of citizens into the BIA system. I think it is necessary that, after the adoption of the new National Security Strategy, access the new alignment of all laws with it, given that it will be brought before. It seems to me that it's very important and that it gets even more into the importance of making a new roof law that would cover all the services, or the entire security-intelligence system. Especially important is this intelligence work. This is a public session, I understand, as well as you, that I can't talk about it in more detail and beyond, but I hope that there will be opportunities when that law is passed, as well as other laws that will complete and improve the security-intelligence system. But I think since the changes, how old has he been since we adopted, instead of Homeland Security, we've formed a BIA-- a security information agency and even an agency. Someone here mentioned today that it would be better if it were the State Security and I voted with both hands for it, not because I worked and was employed in this country at a time when there was State Security, but because of it, and if not, then it would have to be done differently to ensure legally greater on one hand the independent appearance of each of these segments of security-intelligence services of today's agencies, but it has to be even more significant to ensure full, full synergy of all these segments in a unique way. I don't think that co-operation with each other exists in enough degree today. It stressed here that there should be co-operation and an act of co-operation with other organisations is being adopted, just as it has been said, with other organisations, and I propose that a special act be adopted on BIA co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior... (President: Thank you. You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... I.e. to bring as many laws as possible on their work with the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33731	Thank you, MP. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33732	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing important security laws, defence of the military and, of course, the practice and way of working in this Assembly continues to unite all points in one item of the agenda, so that we have as little time as possible to focus more on these drafts of the law. On the other hand, you here today have nine laws that are passed by emergency procedure. I'd really like someone to explain to me why these laws, like the Law of Military Education, are being adopted by an emergency procedure, which is on the agenda today? Couldn't it have gone through one regular procedure and made fewer mistakes? This would avoid changing individual laws every year, two or three. Of course, when it's done that, then we can't have high-quality institutions, nor can we have adequate laws, nor the rule of law. This is what the world warns us about, what the EU is warning us about. So, we're getting farther every day than these standards and ways of functioning in regulated countries and in organized societies and systems and especially when we come to a debate in particular, when there's really an opportunity to discuss each of these laws by member and maybe we from the opposition give some quality proposal that would fix the law and what we could support. Of course, we do not have a chance to do this because now the latest method is that the MPs of the government are actually proposing amendments to the draft laws that come from the government, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as these laws are concerned on today's agenda, two words describe them, one is authority, the other is responsibility and one is not following the other. So, the powers of political officials, both at the Ministry of Defence and in the BIA, are growing dramatically, and on the other hand their responsibilities are almost gone. I'll explain exactly what this is about. Of course, what's still coming into the eyes of everyone who's been reading this material and these laws is that the part about the profession and the profession in the military area is quite well-placed, but everywhere where it tends to give greater weight to political officials, specifically to the defence minister sitting here, it hasn't been spared a bit, so then the additionally politicised institution of the Ministry of Defense. As for the first and second points of the agenda, as well as the seventh points, that is participation in multinational operations. As for the People's Party, we can support it, we can support it because it concerns our soldiers and our people who and how they have poor status in the military and most of them apply for participation in these multinational operations for one single reason, which is financial reasons, because it's a way for them to go into the world and make some money, to buy an apartment, to buy a car. They don't have an aunt from Canada who can help them, and they have to figure out how and how to fund and maintain their families and plan their lives. Of course, about 700 people from the military and 11 people from the MUP are scheduled to participate in these operations and they are certainly willing to risk their lives for financial reasons, and that is one reason why, according to some statistics, which speak of it, two soldiers leave the Army daily. I'd like you to correct me if that's not true. So the soldiers are slowly looking for another way to entangle and for their professional engagement. Also, when we talk about these laws, for years professional soldiers have been promised benefits, police members, and BIA, cheap apartments are promised. They were supposed to start building in March. I didn't hear them go. It was pompously announced during the election campaign for the Belgrade elections, but it obviously did not happen, which is not surprising because for six years we have been listening to promises, announcements, lies, propaganda of the ruling regime, but the problem is when it happens in institutions such as the Republic of Serbia's Army. As for the Law on Military Education, yes, it should have changed because the last one was adopted, as the Minister said in 1994, but the question arises – did you put this law a little more ambitious than it would have been realistic, and does it actually refer more to the satisfaction and legalisation of the ambitions of individual professors or to participants of military education in the Republic of Serbia? So if you look at the law itself, you'll see that two-thirds of the laws apply to teachers, to the ambitions of individual professors to create a university of defense, and very little mention of the students, or that the law is very little about the students. The question is, is this military academy, or should the university be a roof organisation of military education and is it in the structure of the General Staff? The military today, unfortunately, has very little influence on the military school that you're proposing with this law, and that's about him being ambitious. If we look at experiences from previous years when we had an increasing number of participants in those directions of the Military Academy, such as finance or the IT sector or other sectors, far less than basic and basic gender courses such as infantry, artillery or others, and for reasons why these young people have a higher alternative and can come to work easier and do other jobs outside the Army and solve their existence, but on the other hand the Army suffers, because the transition to better paid work creates a smaller number of gender officers who should do their job in the military. You're also introducing here some kind of mixed military school, like some kind of hybrid between military high school and professional military schools. It's not very clear why you did it, but generally in this law, the military system will not be in the function of real development and the fill of the army, but of satisfying the ambitions of professors or individual executives at this university. As far as the Defense Act is concerned, this law has one key thing that you have stated, which is to move the debate on the state of defence report from the National Assembly to the resolution board. That means we're going one step further into transparency. Instead of discussing it here, it will be discussed on the board and thus likely avoid a serious debate on the subject, such as preparation for defence. This law introduces one-member companies, public undertakings, companies and entrepreneurs. It's completely unclear what they're going to do. In the light of the law, this is not clear because these companies practically enable certain privileged public enterprises, entities under party control or perhaps control of some individuals. Is the idea that these companies, which you will form, are practically holding a monopoly in the area of defense. Of course, what Minister Vulin is particularly famous for, the law also lists associations that will contribute to strengthening the defence system and which can gain the status of the association of special importance for defence. We remember an affair with associations while he was a minister in his previous portfolio and where he talked about some associations that would allow social persons to function, so there were about two million euros, and then it gave up, as he said then because of press pressure or I don't know what else. I see you're continuing that practice here. What is most interesting, the criteria for the allocation of funds are prescribed by the personal minister. Very interesting. That's how much you've built this institution. Also, in the domain of this law, we have another problematic item, which is the regulation and protection of the confidentiality of data. So you're really expanding that area. On the one hand, you're making it impossible for the public to gain insight into some information that may not have been a state secret so far, whether it's about citizens, whether it's about professional associations, whether it's about unions, getting insight into, say, what happened and who's responsible for helicopter accidents, or who's going to get a sense of who's responsible and who's going to be responsible for finding drugs in the Department of Defense's vehicle, whether the Ministry's vehicle is for the transport of drugs. On the other hand, this is how the concept of secrecy of data also allows itself or the superiors to punish certain members of the Serbian Army for whom, according to this broad, free estimate, they can say they have violated the rule of secrecy. Furthermore, also in this law, as one of the specific reasons for the adoption and amendment of this law is the application of special security measures for persons engaged in defence affairs and the introduction of specific criteria for the completion of such jobs. Of course, another political thing will increase the political power of the ministry itself. As for the Law on the Serbian Army, the law is also very important from a political point of view, as it first introduces a term for the minister to deploy and move professional military persons inside and outside the army to a proposal or opinion of the Chief of Staff, but it is said immediately in the follow-up of the same law that the minister can delegate these tasks to the Chief of Staff or to his assistants. On the one hand, if you're interested in any case that you want to deploy someone yourself, move, if it's in some political interest of yours, you'll be doing it, and in some other cases will be done by the Chief of Staff or your assistant. Also, this Military Act that you are proposing allows you to reduce the base for calculating the salaries of professional soldiers, if you would likely see less loyalty of these persons to that and that policy that you represent in the ministry. Also, the establishment and records of civilians who would join the service in the military without a public competition, I stress. So the minister is given the opportunity by this law to determine specific formations without public competition. And outside the army where civilian faces are received, but also in the army itself. So, competencies are being extended, ministers' powers are being extended at the expense of institutions, and six years of work are continuing to build all institutions of the Ministry of Defence. The Law on the Production and Transport and Arms of Military Equipment was adopted in 1996 and, of course, it makes it very clear what the intention of creating such a legal proposal is - the creation of new business entities and companies in this area and persons who will be registered and the way for their registration to deal with trade and the production of military equipment and weapons. Also, here is the creation of a group of defence industry Serbia as a category that will be under the absolute control of the defence minister and, of course, it goes to the fact that certain traders and mechanics can be privileged and do these jobs concerning arms trafficking and military equipment. The law also envisions a foreign investor, foreign investment, and the minister said earlier that it would prevent privatisation. No, Minister. So far, these companies have been of strategic interest to the state of Serbia, and you are now introducing a category that someone can capitalize on them and that a foreigner, and also a non-foreigner, will care more about these businesses than the state of Serbia has ever cared about. That's what you listed here as a key paper. That's what the unions and the "Independence" and your military unions are up against, or you obviously don't care. Clearly, you want to put everything under your absolute control. As for the Law on Sale and Production of Weapons, you should especially imagine that Serbia is now blacklisted "Fatfa" and is in the European Commission's report, suspected of financing terrorism and money laundering. And you know Ministers, I suppose very well that every week from Nis, Antonov's plane takes off, which was rented from a Ukrainian company, which drives arms, which is collected from factories dedicated to the Republic of Serbia. It is good for people to work, to have their jobs, it is good to produce, but it is only a question of how it is done and whether it will compromise the general interest of the Republic of Serbia. As far as BIA law goes, I'm sorry there's no BIA chief here, but the law needs to defend Minister Vulin. I don't know why he's not here today, and he was supposed to explain what he suggested. I'll read a few of the key things from the BIA Act. So the citizens can hear first of all. Therefore, the Internal Planning and Systematisation Act of the Agency shall be adopted by the Director of the Agency with the prior consent of the Government. Therefore, the BIA Director shall bring along with the political consent of the current regime. No competition is required to fill the Agency's jobs. The Director shall decide on the establishment of a working relationship with the Agency. So the director decides who he will receive and how he will receive and which place. The members of the Agency shall be required to attend professional training, as well as to be trained and to pass a special expert examination, and the programme and way of attending professional training, professional training and passing a special expert examination shall also be determined by means of an act of the Director. Furthermore, the work of a member of the Agency is assessed once a year and you can imagine who is assessing it, it is assessed by the director. The conditions for acquisition and loss of calling shall be determined by the act of the Director, with the prior consent of the Government. The coefficients for the account of the salary shall be determined by the act of the Director with the prior consent of the Government, i.e. the policy of this Government. Furthermore, a member of the BIA may be permanently or temporarily transferred to another relevant post. A transfer for the needs of a job does not require the consent of a member of the Agency, but the Director can do so on his own. What it says here in this law is only increasing and giving political power to the director that he can do whatever he wants with the BIA members, that on the other hand, he performs the political tasks of those who have appointed him and that is the collapse of institutions and we are further away from organised society, from institutions and from Europe and this law also confirms what is going to happen. On the other hand, where's the responsibility? Did anyone ask who might be responsible for Oliver Ivanovic's death? Oliver Ivanovic announced his murder. No one answered that. What were our services doing? They are funded by citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the budget. They are also obliged to take care of the state of Serbia, the interests of the Serbian state, and of every individual living in this country. It's a BIA job and they need to come out and say who's responsible for the failures that were made, and if they weren't there, why are you silent and on whose orders you're silent, in this particular case, that I'm not talking about any other cases. Finally, when we review all these laws and sublime them, it is clear that all these proposals from human resources to material, they are dimensional not in accordance with the needs of the military, but in a mixer that will trade in arms and military equipment and that have grown with this regime. Furthermore, strengthening the powers of ministers and BIA directors and in the field of employment, promotion, deployment of members of the military and employees of the BIA, thus of course destroying all the prescribed criteria and staff policy in one regulated system and allowing for the natural recruitment of party staff regardless of professional competences. What is the biggest problem is that it increases the risk of the country's defence power as a consequence of ousting decisions on highly prescribed military issues to certain political issues, I may say, incompetence of individuals who today manage a system such as the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the result of such a relationship between the Vucic regime and the defence and security system is the collapse of the country's defence power. The military, Mr. Minister, is increasingly a pillar of the state, and more and more a state-run firm offering a high-risk job for poor wages and as such represents an institution with which the regime buys social peace, and you are giving yourself parades along with occasional wartime Hague statements with countries in the region with which Serbia should have partner relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33733	First of all, we have colleagues. First, Marijan Rističević according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33734	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable officers, were injured by a member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. We were just looking at an MP who's been telling the worst stories about Vukic, and through Davenport, he wanted to join the SNS and be a minister of agriculture. But we don't like foreign ambassadors. The man who was the messenger of Vuk Jeremic later spoke very badly of the Army here. No wonder. Vuk Jeremic was a civilian serving military time in the Serbian presidency with Boris Tadic and then as such, as a soldier he went to the U.S. meeting "Western Polis Inter", they know what it is, and he says this by addressing NATO officers – I am talking about retirement, this is what Vuk Jeremic's descendant says, about pensioning or firing 16 active generals and more than 300 officers. I can tell you, we've had terrible pressures. It is about decorated officers and heroes of the wars of the 1990s, Jeremic said. In addition, Jeremic then boasted to the US hosts that co-operation with The Hague tribunal was extremely high as agendas and that it was also important to present to them the retirement and dismissal process of generals and officers as non-political and to show that they were not fired because they have different views and views. Furthermore, he stood up for the civilian army, telling NATO generals – here, in fact, here as I speak to you, I serve the army, which caused first laughter, and after applause.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33735	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Based on what, colleague Alexic? (Miroslav Aleksic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33736	I thank the chairman. Article 106(1) has been injured because there is nothing to do with the topic of the agenda that has nothing to do with the cancellation of competitions for NGOs while Minister Alexander Vulin was the minister at the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, but apparently he has a second basis. I agree with my colleague Risticic that he is a injured member of 107th in addition to this article 106, which is the dignity of this home, because the cancellation of competitions to prevent possible use of money through the division of NGOs and the giving of that money to the Triestenica Children's Treatment Fund can only interfere with someone who has their own criminal NGO, which is called the Citizens' Fund, who robbed 53 million dinars from the Tristenik municipality, on allegedly taking care of adults and old ones. No one has found the ones they were taking care of, and that this is a criminal organisation saying that against representatives Juliana Jovanovic, criminal proceedings are being conducted precisely because of malfeasance in the facility. The only thing the gentleman concerned, who has hurt by his performance as the Rules of Procedure, and you have failed to stop it, has succeeded in escillating with his resourcefulness that he is not the one who will criminally respond, but rather the kind of inhumane and inhumanely frame someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33737	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33738	Thank you, Your Honor. I think you've hurt Article 8, because you, as chairman, are taking care of the course of this session. Why? Because the gentleman who spoke of these laws very often mentioned Mr. Bratislava Gasic. I know that this gentleman is obsessed with Mr. Gasic's character and work, because the drones, who wrote on his own Twitter account that BIA is doing other jobs -- in addition to paved roads, I found this on his own terrace, let the owner return to him. The gentleman is obsessed, but he should be possessed in this way, so that he sees Mr. Gasic and for his municipality he does everything that Mr. Gasic has done, and probably the gentleman concerned and fears that on his 118th birthday, BIA announced economic security, that he will also deal with it and that through the collection of relevant information and the fight against corruption and criminal action that threatens the economic foundations of our society, probably the gentleman who spoke of Mr. Gasic will feel the worst sense of a certain amount of fear. Justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33739	Do you want the Parliament to make statements in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Right to replication, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33740	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, there's someone here, the fellow concerned mentioned -- the Wolf's regime that destroys the security defense system and I don't know what. For example, to a respected colleague, I will, of course, address you, the chairman, the Wolf's regime has not occurred to me that the best officers who were 40 years old, may have had the rank of colonel, the colonel did not think to retire them, and the reason they did it was because all these officers were involved in the fight against the NATO Pact. They were ordered to retire all these people, and they did, and then, for the chief of staff, they chose a man who didn't know if he had ever commanded anything in his life, but became chief of staff. He skipped all possible acts, from the colonel he came to be Chief of General Staff. Why? He finished some course, whether in Garmispartnerchen or in another intelligence institution, it doesn't matter, but it was the only reference to be Chief of Staff. Then they find us telling us how someone destroyed the security system. By the way, speaking of democracies, this is a prominent newspaper "Economist" radio, their period of government said that Serbia was then some kind of hybrid regime, below any possible criteria, the worst kind of madcture. I'm sorry, today there are much greater assessments of the same prominent magazine for Serbia, we are in the rank of the United States, a democracy with challenges, which is huge progress compared to what they have left for us. So, the stories they serve, and now I'm going to tell you, exactly what he read about members of BIA law, so Serbia's progress in democracy is precisely these members of progress in democracy, because we define something by law, which would otherwise be normal for BIA's director to do, as in any public enterprise, it's perfectly normal for the director to evaluate his employees and, imagine, performs a systematization of jobs with the consent of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33741	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. Right on line, MP Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33742	Thank you. I don't know why all this anxiety from some fellow MPs, I expected it to be a little more creative, not to bring out these lies from session to session about me. If it's someone, I guess you built a legal state, so someone in it will be responsible for some crimes, theft, corruption he's committed. You shoot something, because you don't know what you're gonna say about what I said. I expect the minister to answer me, I was talking to him, I wasn't talking to these party soldiers here, who are tasked only to insult us personally from the opposition, but to answer and say that I am wrong about all these items that I have made, explaining the drafts of the law. So, that's the point, and who did what six years ago, 10 years ago, so does anyone need to go back to 1999 to ask you where Alexander Vucic was then, whether he was then in the government, whether he was in the government that caused the war, whether he was in the government after which the citizens died in that Kosovo, which he now defends by handing him over to Haradinaj, with whom he is ruling in Kosovo today. That's something you need to answer to the citizens of Serbia, not here to call any MPs in this room with lies, slanders and personal nicknames. Everything you say about me, I have no intention of answering. There are institutions, I hope, in this country, so let each and every one of us say what he's been doing, and these lies and vomits you're talking about are long ago understood by Serbian citizens, because that's not how you can show that you're right. So that shows just how insecure you are and how you're not behind all this stuff you're saying and how much pain you're in the truth. All that is said in your eyes, which is true, you answer with personal insults, lies, slanders and threats. That is the policy you represent in this Parliament and in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33743	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33744	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. In fact, the previous speaker violated the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of citizens, but also insulted the intelligence of all citizens and MPs by saying such words. When we talk about how responsibility is determined, we really leave it to the competent authorities to determine and what happened to the petolet factory, whether the subsidies of the Republic of Serbia were coming at million-dollar amounts, while my previous speaker was on the Supervisory Board and he nominated all of it. We also leave it to the authorities to determine, not to draw any flat-rate conclusions about what happened to 54 million from the Fund, where they arrived in the pre-election campaign in 2012, month after month. These were the millions of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were not determined what they were spent on, but we are not taking a flat rate, but we are letting the authorities answer that. When we talk about 1999, others should say where they were, whether they were defending our country's flag and future, or whether they were calling for a conscience complaint, and we know confidently that they can handle weapons, because they are in various hunting societies. So these are all some of the answers that we require here, but let's not give the flat rate, but let's leave the competent ones and talk about the law today that significantly improves both the business of the dedicated industry and the factory TMO, but that's of course because it's about Triestenik and the development of our entire country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33745	I couldn't agree more with you, Comrade Turk. The competent authorities should determine the responsibility and the citizens in the elections, and they confirm who acted as he was in power. Take it easy. Right to the replica of MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33746	Here's the thing. I don't know what I've offended you with. I've talked about what you lied about, but I must say now for the sake of the public, because you speak so uglyly of our army who defended this country. Your director, the present party you belong to, wore the same uniform in the '90s. What he didn't take off his uniform at the time and say – it's a shame to me, this army massacres, kills children, etc. than he was a member of that army. Then, of course, later, progressed to the rank of Chief of Staff and if there are no criteria as to how this came about. Aren't you ashamed to say something like that? There's something else I need to say about democracy. You know, Mr. Arsic, and that's what the paper said, at the time of their government, it was probably the most normal thing to put a political opponent on the line and listen to him. My smallness, unfortunately, has been on their radar for three years, without any explanation. They just told the judge to write there a measure of listening, led him under some kind of extremism and nationalism. Why? To chase the movements of Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Vukic. It was their authority. They were listening to people come to their senses. They found it appropriate today to talk about whether someone puts BIA under control or not. It's really the height of hypocrisy and insolence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33747	Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33748	Is there more insolence than when someone who lies in a senseless way speaks for someone else to lie about? We can say anything, but the paper shows and proves who's telling the truth and who's lying. A criminal case is being brought against Julia Jovanovic before the Court of Justice in Smederev, and this was submitted to the question of MP Marijan Risticevic, in response to the Justice Ministry. The Fund for the promotion of the resources of citizens on his board is LJubisa Knezevic, father-in-law of Mr Miroslav Aleksic, Miroslav Aleksic, Marija Knezevic – Alexic, Julia Jovanovic and three others. Furthermore, the authority by which the gentleman who claims I am lying gives Dragana Puzovic that he can afford money from the company's accounts. Whether this is evidence, or an NGO, I apologize, is that sufficient evidence that 53 million are indisputable and that there are contracts and evidence, from the Triestenik municipality, abused and for the abuse of that 53 million there is so far evidence, what the prosecution says about about 4.5 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33749	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33750	Thank you very much. A number of false things have been said here, so let's start working on the subject as well. So here it is said that all laws are passed by emergency procedure, of course false. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, a public debate held on 3 November 2017, a round table in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, but to whom it is important. It's just like that. The draft law amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law, a public debate held between 3 November and 23 November 2017, again in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in peacekeeping operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, the competent committee of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as early as 2016 and 2017, means twice that it is not necessary to conduct a public debate, as amendments and additions only improve the application of the law, but to whom it is important, just glue the label, it has been done so and nothing more. A bill of arms and military equipment, held by two public debates, two not one, two. The first from 2 March to 23 March 2015 in co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and the second public debate held from 26 September to 16 October 2016. So, two public hearings held on one law, but it doesn't matter. Say it's never been maintained and that's fine. Like it's some big secret. By the way, I've spoken to each of the unions personally, with every part of the management, but to whom it matters. It is enough for you to say it – it is not, so let it turn into the truth. A draft law on military education, held by two public debates. From 5 to 31 March 2014 and from 22 September to 11 October 2016 So, two. And there's two of them again. And it's important for us to get to the beginning of this school year, to start working, to allow children to get educated on the best possible conditions. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military-Working Material Obligation. The Government's competent board found that there is no need to hold a public hearing, as there is again a minimum number of amendments. So, all the way to one that's been said that the emergency procedure isn't. It's just not true, but I guess it's the easiest. Aleksandar Vukic served as defence minister in 2012. Then the army began to return to where it belongs first of all the institutions in our country. I'll remind you that before that, not only did he not buy a single plane, and that 500 tanks and hoodies were melted, that they extended the resources on the plane tires. The tire had no boots, no uniforms and the only supply they had, now you will hear what they bought from the weapons and how they equipped us from 2000 to 2012. They bought something called Land Rovers, which is a civil version, not military versions and heclare rifles and koh, exactly 300 pieces. It's all that's been purchased for our army in all these decades. Since 2012, since Alexander Vukic, becoming defence minister to this day, airplanes, the most modern, are being refurbished, modernised, tanks arrive, armored vehicles arrive, infantry, we are introducing our products, our defence industry Serbia, which we have not had so far. We're introducing Nora, Lazarus, Milos, Little Milos and not counting what we've done, our army's reserves. Material reserves are more than they've ever been. We've never had so much fuel, so much food, so much ammunition, so many uniforms, so much equipment, so many boots. We've never had that much. So he finally took care of the army and began to worry about it since Vucic became defence minister in 2012, Bratislav Gasic continued, as the BIA will continue to work well, continued Zoran Djordjevic and it is up to me to carry out what they were doing before me. That's how it was and that's how it was, but who cares, it's important to attack a political opponent and make it the harshest lies. We have only taken care of about 700 members of the Army as regards apartments in 2017, so far, 2018. Some through favourable lending, some through residential construction, and some through the Solo Fund. That wasn't working. That stopped working by 2012. It was almost forbidden to build housing. So when we talk about these things, when we talk about an institution like the military, then it would be really good to refrain from politics, but I can see that it's simply not possible and it's hard to tell someone who dares to charge our security services with the murder of Oliver Ivanovic in a territory we don't control and we know that we don't control it and we know that it's under Resolution 1244. To accuse our country of such a thing, and it didn't occur to them to say, in the first place, to ask Hashim Thaci what happened or to ask the international community that has effective authority there? No, the first thing you remember is asking our services and immediately accusing them of being guilty, incompetent, minors involved in something like that. I can't understand that. I can't understand that, as I can't understand that the strongest justifications for our country's bombing and NATO aggression are ours in Serbia. No one else in the world is trying to justify NATO aggression. No one else, not even a good part of the NATO Pact officials, speaks of NATO aggression as a positive matter anymore. You hear there's a government that killed people in 1999. So, it's not because of the Shyptarian terrorism, it's not because they killed soldiers and cops in 1998, so they had to be answered, they didn't. It's not because they decided to hide their scandals and spread their influence, their policy in 1999, they didn't. By the way, because of the politics of the Serbian state and its government. You can't hear that in the NATO Pact. That's what the NATO Pact doesn't tell you anymore. When you talk to NATO pact officials, they don't tell you anything like that. You hear in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that it is all Serbs, or those who led them at the time. So neither Thaci nor NATO are to blame in 1999 and the Serbs who supported the government are guilty. And what the Serbs think of each of us, they said in the election. Well, they said in the election. So you see how many votes they gave to the Wolf, and how many millicents they gave to your coalition. And they gave it for a full reason, and no one made them do something like that. When you talk about Serbia's defence industry, you had a great opportunity to make the first five-year-old in your Triestenik giants, save, in 2012, when it came to saving "The First Five-year-old". Go among the workers of the First Five-year-olds, ask them how it is now and how it was at the time of the government? Ask them how it was at that time when they were destroying that factory, when it was planically destroyed by a giant who worked for the world's largest aircraft manufacturers? We're saving him now, we're coming back. Just to remind you that the government in which Aleksandar Vukic was Prime Minister gave over 40m euros to the dedicated industry, including your Trieste, and your "First Five-year-old" who, immediately to commend them, made excellent use of them and worked greatly with that money and we can be proud of them and proud of what they did. And what the world thinks about us when it comes to the defence industry and when it comes to arms trafficking, to tell you that according to the most important international organisations, it is our Serbia's transparency of arms trade, and I guess we can all look forward to whatever political parties we are from, for that, if you can look forward to it, in third place in the world for transparency. The first is Germany, the second is Switzerland, the third is Serbia. Let's at least look forward to it, cheer each other together and say, "Here's how our country behaves." Do you know, in order to sell anything from our weapons, you have to get permission from four ministries and two agencies. It's almost nowhere in the world. And then we listen here as the state smuggles guns and sells who knows who and who knows what. These are laws where there shouldn't be politics. It's okay, you hate Wolf, Gasic, me, it's okay, and that's the least of the problems. But when you talk about these laws, you talk about the Serbian Army, you talk about BIA, institutions more important than our relations and your hatred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33751	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33752	Mr. Arsic, thank you for the replica. I'm advertising Article 107 that the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to speak the truth. If this applies to MPs of the people, it shall apply especially to guests and ministers who are under the Members of the people. So, for the sake of truth, from 2008 to 2012, only 100 “Discoveres”, 18 “Last”, an “Embrayer” aircraft for air recording, sniper rifles, parachutes, air-air missiles for MIGs 29 were purchased, the South Base was built in which officers were trained for participation in multinational operations, not only from Serbia and the region but also from around the world, the VMA clinic was reconstructed, five thousand apartments were built. Mr. Arsic, I'm just asking that everyone here, that goes for me and everyone else, we're telling the truth when we're talking about data that's extremely important. It doesn't matter who's right here, it matters how the Serbian Army lives, what material and any other condition it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33753	My friend Milojic, you forgot something to supplement you. Namely, a special flight suit was made for Minister Sutanovac, when there was no fuel for the planes. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not finished yet. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I've only completed you, nothing more. Would you like to make a statement about the previous violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. Here you go, colleague Milojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33754	Mr. Arsic, you've been in parliament a long time. First, it's not right what you're doing, but we're used to it. I said here what was purchased and obtained for the Army of Serbia, and I said that the Serbian Army is in an extremely difficult situation. (President: Just say by what member? ) Article 100. (Chairman: And the previous one was 100, right? No, no, no, Please join the session, if that capacity allows you. (President: I'm involved. You're talking to me about how the Serbian Army lives saying I don't have hair. It's okay, I don't have hair, but the Serbian Army still has the lowest wages in the region. Please get serious at such an important session and let's talk about the subject. What you want to do here is not gonna help the members of the Serbian Army... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33755	Comrade Milojičić, you have just taken advantage of the violation of the Rules of Procedure as a right to the replica twice. I let you go. You've replicated the minister's exposure. (Radoslav Milojic: No, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the minister was not telling the truth. You've still accused the Minister of lying. (Radoslav Milojic: No, just not telling the truth. () What is the truth? It's a conflict of arguments and part of the discussion, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33756	Chairman, you've injured Article 103. Namely, when you completed the breach of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Milojicic regarding that vanezon, you forgot to say that he had to be hired and a geometer to take out the measure of that vanezon, so it was an extra cost around that vanezon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33757	Mr. Komlensky, I don't know about the geometer, but I do know that the pilots hid that flight van from their minister, Dragan Sutanovac. (Alexandra Jerkov: Arsic, answer the word. I answer to my fellow Member at the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly does not have to be declared. Mr. Alexic, on what grounds? The Minister's right to replicate. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33758	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the minister has just accused me of lying and not telling the truth, I am only obliged to invite him to read the front pages of these bill that entered the Assembly. I will read the first item of the agenda, where it is said – Proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2018, with a proposal to be based on Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be brought by emergency procedure. And so the 2nd point, and so the 3rd and so the 9th points, all by emergency procedure. This is the material signed by Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. So much for who's telling the truth here and who's not talking. As to whether or not I offended the soldiers in any way, I don't think I did and the soldiers aren't the subject. Here's the theme you are, here's the topic of politics that you conduct at the Ministry towards professional members of the Republic of Serbia's Army. When you speak here of the "Petolets" from Triestenik, I will remind you that "Second" is only one part of the 12 factories that were operating within that holding company, have survived both wars and sanctions and economic crisis since 1949, but are not the authorities of Aleksandra Vukic and in 2016 the largest part went bankrupt. Yesterday I submitted a bill for the establishment of a survey board to determine who is responsible, so let's see why, in what way and what today these factories in Tristenik are doing as part of a private company that you have formed and which is falsely represented as the former 'First Five-year-old', she inherited contracts with customers, she uses repromaterials, semi-products and goods that remained in stock in agreement with the bankruptcy managers and the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33759	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33760	Thank you, Chairman. I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly again, because my previous speaker tried to deceive the public by bringing out partial facts or false facts. When it comes to the first five-year factory, I would remind myself that the factory received nearly 30 million funds from the Development Fund that were intended to improve production, without any spending plan, without getting any machinery. The youngest machine was older than me, so 30 years minimum. All that time, only the workers were fired, except in campaigns when they were hired by the mahogany directors. So, for all that time, while on the Supervisory Board sat my previous speaker and his narrow relatives and other members of the URS, and all those silences watched and nominated, made debts of 120m euros. When all the privatisation deadlines, which Dinkic normally set, which we only extended, turned out to be three times the value of the factory itself. In the legal frameworks and what could have been done, it was only possible that workers had taken over the factory, that they had gathered together and now for two years they had been doing positive business, paying both electricity and water and taxes and contributions, all that the factory had never paid for. What cost us most was the campaign of the then president of the municipality, that is, my previous speaker, who all the time spoke uglyly about Tristenik and the factory, even there is an article in the newspaper "The Stone Around the Door of the State", cost 144 thousand dinars of Tristenik's money. I'm not sure they'd agree to cost so much the article "The Stone Around the State's Door", and as much as it actually cost the Triestenik municipality and the Petolite Workers, it'll only show time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33761	By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? All right, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33762	It was the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman, and it's a good thing that you came here, otherwise I advertise Article 103, because your previous years allowed fellow Members to practically replicate me through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. The most brutally injured Rules of Procedure, namely the chairman of the various charges against me, the personal nature of whatever you want, forgetting only and skipping all those who do not respond to them as well as the current president of the SNS municipality and his wife who were on the boards of the first five-year-olds and in this fund spoken of by this gentleman, so forget the wife of the current head of the SNS municipality and so on. So, it's a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure and of saying tendious things that are not true with the idea that what I've been saying here is done in one way through the violation of this Parliament's work and dignity. I ask you to sit here as chairman in the future or warn your chairman, vice presidents who lead the session to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33763	You want us to vote on this injury? Thank you. The word is Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33764	Let's just get some things straight. Of course, everything that's been said here that's been obtained from weapons can't be measured by value with one moment, not by something more. After all, every member of the army knows that for the first time now he has two uniforms, he has new boots, and he couldn't even have fantasized at a time when they forced our fighters and our army officers. Those who boasted that their greatest success was to drive away so many Chiefs of Staff to The Hague and fire so many combat officers, they can hardly understand what we're talking about. So you know, when the Lasta planes say, and the Lasta planes are now armed and six pieces. Now, because we had to go through everything that was necessary to get one plane into our weapons, to correct all mistakes, to fix, to do, to make everything right. They're in now, not then. So now only six last aircraft have entered. And, let me tell you, they got a lot of praise from getting you know how many rockets for moments? Eight. You know how much we're going to do? A lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33765	No one's answering any more than the authorities or answering? I need to know I'm planning a session or I need to get on the list. Okay, the word is Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33766	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, respected officers, today we have very important topics on the agenda. I hope that all MPs will take an adequate part in the debate, that we will not talk about those things that turn away from such an extremely important topic and not just one, but the whole agenda is extremely important. We have a set of laws ahead of us, and I hope that the public, first of all, will understand the intentions of the SNS. In addition to several quality military laws, not all of them go undetected and the BIA Act, and my obligation is, above all, as a MP elected by the citizens and the DS MPs to draw attention to the public and those laws that are acceptable to the DS, which are primarily laws on the participation of our military in multinational operations and those laws that are not acceptable to DS policy, which is primarily the BIA Act. I am really sorry that a prominent expert like Mr. Panic sitting here with us was not elected director of BIA and much less attacks would be on these laws that Mr. Panic is an apolitical figure, as a man of the profession set to this responsible function, and that it is not Mr. Bratislav Gasic, who is a senior SNS official and of course I have a legitimate fear that BIA will fall under SNS management, which is not good for security services in general, and it is not good for Serbian citizens either. We have before us a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations for 2018. I listened carefully to Minister Vulin's statement, which he said, and I ask him to correct me if I'm wrong, that we currently have 328 members participating in multinational operations. Dear gentlemen, it is now almost May 1st, the fifth month of 2018. The Democratic Party supports the participation of our army in multinational operations, but I am asking a legitimate question, why haven't we decided on our army's participation in multinational operations in late December or December 2017? Did you know that these missions will take place or not? Are we now making a retroactive decision, and you have already directed members of the Serbian Army to work and participate in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions? Why is it good for the Serbian Army to participate in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions? There's a lot of reasons for that. First of all, the provision of Article 5(4) of the Defence Act states that the defence of the country is and is prescribed to be achieved by the participation of our army in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions. The Democratic Party supports this as opposed to you from the SNS, which by 2012, 2013 were against the participation of our army, though, by 2009 transformed into SRS uniforms, but we are glad that we have succeeded at least in this area to educate you. Unfortunately, at the time of the authorities of the current owners, the same team only in other uniforms, other teams in the same uniforms, had imports of security into Serbia. Peace missions came to our country to establish order, to calm the warring parties and, of course, it's very bad for the population and for the whole country. By coming to the power of the DS, the state of Serbia has become an exporter of security. Our peacekeeping missions began for the first time to participate in multinational operations and that is what is good that we have become exporters of security. If the government of the DS and Dragan Sutanovac had not professionalised and modernised Serbia's military, we would not have the capacity to participate in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions, and that is important to point out. What else is important? It is important that our army's participation in peacekeeping missions and multinational operations is accompanied by diplomatic activity. Of course, I don't mean the diplomatic activity that Minister Vulin propagates, diplomatic activity of conflict and conflict, but I mean a serious strategic diplomatic activity where the state from the involvement of our military in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions will have what economic, which is strategic benefits. I hope it's everyone who lives in this country's primary goal, no matter who's in power. I must point out that just as the government, led by the DS and then the defence minister, opened the South military base at Bujanovac, a brilliant South military base with Bujanovac, which serves to certification officers not only from our country and the region, but from around the world for participation in multinational operations of land armies, and that's what's good. Also, the Government of the DS signed a bilateral agreement in 2012, and I ask you, of course, to respond if any of this is not true, in Paris, which was signed by the then defence minister, where for the first time our River Unit officers boarded the French ship "Floreal" and participated in multinational operations of river units. But what is more important than the participation of our army in multinational operations is, Mr. Minister, how members of the Serbian Army live, and there are about 37,000. You yourself said that a total of 700 members of the Serbian Army are in different stages, participating in multinational operations, that at this point it is about 300 members of the Serbian Army and I care, of course, about those members who participate in multinational operations, but we need to see how the 36,700 members of the Serbian Army who do not participate in multinational operations, what their standard of living, what their equipment is, what their uniforms are. First of all, the defence ministry's budget is, unfortunately, one of the lowest in the region. Unfortunately, in Croatia, the sergeant has 900 euros' salary, you know what our sergeant's salary, our officer and our officers' salary is, and we'll get there. I'm not saying you're directly responsible for this, but it's the policy you've been supporting for six years. You, Mr. Minister, are the fifth minister for six years of the SNS government. The military system is extremely complex, extremely complex. The army has, of course, military duties and agriculture, education and health care. So the Army isn't a system that someone can easily get into pores. It's enough once a minister for a year, just getting acquainted with the system, you, and your coalition, change it. You're the fifth minister in six years' power of the SNS. What's symptomatic is that every SNS minister is worse than his predecessor in that position. You have no systematic way of managing Serbia's military, but for a year you change the minister to the minister and that's not bad for the overall defence system or for the state, or for those ministers who are just entering formations, entering the problem, entering the Serbian Army, then being replaced. As far as other data is concerned, 70% of Serbian-based civilians have a salary of 22,000 dinars. A man who is employed in Serbia's military, a civilian, is on the verge of existence, because with 22,000 dinars he can barely survive. Eighty-two% of Serbian Army officers have a salary of about 30,000 dinars. 72% of Serbian Army members who leave Serbia's military do so on a personal request. I, as someone who served a regular military term, can say that I am sorry about that, because the army was once an institution with the greatest confidence of citizens in it. Now the army, unfortunately, is an institution to escape from. I'd like you to tell me why that is. I think it's part of it because 80% of Serbian Army members earn less than the average earnings in Serbia, and I don't think that's allowed in 2018. You reduced the members of the Serbian Army's salary, you reduced the members of the Serbian Army's pension, the people who retired, you reduced the members of the Serbian Army's diaries. Does a soldier who comes to do his job think about whether his house was cut off by electricity, if he could send a child on a field trip, if he left the child money for lunch, could he do his job uninterrupted and focus on his job? Well, I'm sure he can't, because we're all living people and of course we take care of how our family lives. According to the latest poll, 73% of Serbian Army members are unhappy with their material status. At the end of this section on military laws, Mr. Minister, don't understand anything bad, I would like Serbia to have the best possible results, not because of you and your policy, but because I was born and living in this country and of course we will always be the opposition of the SNS and you, but never the Democratic Party will be an opposition to what is good for the citizens of Serbia, so we said it was okay to participate in multi-national operations and we will support it. But, Mr. Minister, you don't have the legitimacy to act as Minister of Defense. The legitimacy for that exists in two ways. We are all involved in politics and the minister in any portfolio is a political function. You don't have a professional calling, one of your associates would have that, if he were a man from the profession, and you don't have a political one, because you've never been involved in any of the choices in your life. You just told your colleague Alexic that he has 1%. Let it be true, but you don't have that 1%, because you've never participated in the elections in your life. You know what, if I play football against you, and I'm on the team with Christiano Ronaldo, well, of course I'll win. So, you don't have the political legitimacy to be in the place where you are, but it's not the citizens of Serbia, it's you who accepted it and the one who put you in that place without any legitimacy and no expertise. Since 2012, I argue, the security system in general is being humiliated, and you cannot convince me, or the citizens of Serbia, that it is not so when you and Mr. Bratislav Gasic care about Serbia's security. I would only ask the President of Parliament if we could speak to each other, so that the honourable colleagues do not receive. I would now move on to amendments to the BIA Act, which are extremely important, I ask the general public to pay attention to the proposed amendments and additions to the BIA Act. First of all, the law that you are proposing is extremely bad and I am asking you to withdraw this law on amendments to the BIA Act from the agenda. On the other hand, a man who will enforce this law has a series of affairs and is not competent to be in that place and these are two key problems. The BIA must first of all be apolitical. BIA must be apolitical, and competitions must be public and transparent. Of course I didn't attack the BIA budget last time, because I know there are things out there that aren't for MPs, which aren't for the public either, and it can't all be... Please, can you silence the messengers, really?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33767	You're the only one who's telling me exactly who to silence from yours?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33768	Of course, colleagues from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33769	You were showing left on your co-workers, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33770	Can I finish it so you won't take my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33771	You're the only one to finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33772	We haven't had any objections about the BIA budget being secret, but we've already had objections to who's running that budget. This law gives Bratislava Gasic absolute power and absolute power without any control, which is not good for one man to have absolute power and absolute power, regardless of which party and which party suggested it. We are priors against it, even if it came from our party, only we would never suggest such changes and additions to the BIA Act. There's one really dangerous thing here, and it's that BIA will become an SNS agency and will work in the interest of SNS, which is bad for them too, but they still don't understand it, but they will understand when they leave the government because they have seen themselves unfortunately for them, and fortunately for all the others everything changes. I will now list several key problems regarding the amendments and additions to the BIA Act, which is primarily in Article 20b, it is said that the establishment of a working relationship with the Agency determines exclusively the director of the Agency, regardless of the name and name, without any competition, without any commission, Bratislav Gasic himself will be able to employ 100 SNS activists tomorrow. The next member, who is also problematic, is a 20v member and is the most problematic member. I ask the public to pay attention to this member. If a member who works at the BIA gets fired, he has the right to appeal to the court. If the court returns him to work, Bratislava Gasic, i.e. The director of BIA has a discretionary right not to take him to work. This decision and Article 20v, director of the Agency, whatever his name is, is above the court's decision. That's how we step on the Constitution. I hope you're aware of this fact and I ask you to withdraw these amendments and amendments of the law. Article 20e says that only the director determines the height of the salary and the coefficient. So, this member of the SNS who will bring in BIA Bratislava Gasic, hire him without any criteria and criteria, will determine the salary he wants and which he considers appropriate. Another member who is extremely controversial, of course for us from the DS, is that the Director of the Agency will determine the conditions for acquisition and loss of calling. We don't think he's competent, that he's not qualified to determine the acquisition or loss of anyone's calling, especially people who are serious and responsible and are doing their job professionally in that agency for over 20 years. This is one scandalous law and the adoption of this law will only be better for SNS activists and SNS-backed criminals. I'm asking you to withdraw these amendments to the BIA Act. Of course the DS will be against it in the day of the vote of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33773	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33774	Thank you. Article 107 has been injured. The criminals supported and today support the DS. The criminals brought you to power on October 5th 2000, were your pals, and you bathed in pools with them, dealt drugs, made deals, set up tenders and robbed Serbia. As for party personnel, Bratislava Gasic has not performed a single party function in the SNS since the day he was appointed BIA director. And the gentleman who spoke earlier would have asked – what membership cards did the heads of the DB have after 5 October 2000, Goran Petrovic, Andreja Savic, Rade Bulatovic and the last Sasa Vukadinovic? Were those non-partisan personalities? None, absolutely none. All party personnel of the then ruling parties. But what is worst, if you noticed in the presentation of the previous speaker, is that DS and the official Croatian state summit compete in Serbia's accusations that Serbia is guilty of the war and the fall of the former Yugoslavia. The previous speaker said – while you, thinking of us from the SNS, were in power in the '90s, there were blue helmets. Well, did the blue helmets come for Alexander Vukic, for Mark Atlagic, for the government of Orlic? (Radoslav Milojic: Because of Tomislav Nikolic and SPS. Because of Tomislav Nikolic? (President: Thank you, time is up.) ) So, I ask you, Mrs Gojkovic, that in the Serbian parliament, the Serbian state and the Serbian people are not being accused of breaking up the former Yugoslavia, because if anyone was the victim of the fallout of the former Yugoslavia, they were Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33775	It's about taking an oath. We'll continue the debate, just to approach the oath. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the Third Regular Session in 2018, held on 19 April 2018, made a decision on the election of members of the Council of the DRI and that Dr Dusko Pejovic was elected president of the Council, Bojana Mitrovic was elected, and Nevenka Bojanić, Marijana Simović and Ljiljana Dimitrijevic were elected for members of the Council. Also, I remind you, Article 19 is Section 3. The DRI law stipulates that after the election, the president, vice president and members of the Council are sworn in before the National Assembly, taking office. I ask the President, the Vice-Presidents and members of the Council to approach for the purpose of taking the oath and to repeat the oath after my reading. "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. I promise to respect the constitution and the laws. I swear to myself that I will do my duty independently, honestly and unbiasedly and that I will not be in need of my responsibilities’ Thank you. I ask the President, vice presidents and members of the Council to sign the text of the oath now. Allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to congratulate the President, Vice-President and members of the DRI Council on taking office and to wish you success in your upcoming mandate. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33776	Thank you. As for sending our troops into international peace operations, it is the Assembly that decides when our units leave, when they return, when they are directed, that the Assembly does so, and we sent the proposal in November of the month. The congregation, in accordance with its agenda, may decide how it feels to be. It's her sovereign right that no one can influence. One of the reasons why we are making changes to the law is that we would not have to burden the Assembly that the moment we adopt our units, that our troops go into peace operations and not change the character of peace operations, that this decision is valid as long as the peace operation is in line with the decisions that the National Assembly has supported and adopted. So let's not attack it then, but let's see that this is a solution that certainly works well. Just so you know, according to all the research, I don't know what research you've been looking at, the military is now the most respected institution in our country, and since they're working on us all the time, in inspection surveillance there are always anonymous polls with members of the Army, that you know that the level of satisfaction is growing, it's not enough and it's never enough, and we're going to do our best to make it better, but to know that it's growing, and here you are, too. As far as the military's equipment is concerned, I've already said how many weapons we've acquired. But here's to those uniforms. We ordered and paid for 35,000 boots and 22,000 pairs of uniforms, ordered and paid for. Every member of the active army will have two pairs of uniforms and new boots. It wasn't from JNA. I guess we should all be happy about that. You know, the fact is, and it's nothing controversial, if the wages had to, we'd like to be bigger, but the wages are bigger than they've ever been. In 2012, a professional soldier received 33,000 dinars, today 39,764 dinars, in 2012, a subordinate had an average salary of 43,686 dinars, today 52,824 dinars, officer 63,428, today 74,030. And, count, no inflation, no inflation, no dinar mutilation. We have the lowest inflation ever and the lowest euro ever. So it certainly says that we are trying to improve quality, trying. Let me just tell you a little something that means something to the soldiers. It doesn't mean anything, of course, to us who aren't in Serbia's own army, who we don't buy in the cafeteria, who we don't eat in the cafeteria. We have the lowest prices in the cafeterias ever. At the time of the party's government that you were talking about, the price in the canteens was above the prices in the shops. Not anymore. Now they are as they should be, and that also affects the standard of soldiers and affects the standard of living. You know, for a total salary increase in Serbia's military, about two billion dinars and something else has been allocated. Only the military pensioners you spoke of here, only military pensioners who sued the state of Serbia for the decisions of Minister Sutanovac, declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, received over five billion dinars from the state of Serbia. So, a two-year increase in the Serbian Army, the salary of the Serbian Army went to our foam because Minister Sutanovac did not want to implement the Constitution and the law. That's all. When you talk about the standard of soldiers and pensioners, remember this, only here is the state of Serbia lost five billion dinars that it gave to the pens, and most of it went to court, went to legal costs, and we saved the good part because we out-of-courtly agreed with pension associations not to sue us until the end, because these are people who love their country and who were willing to participate in helping their country. So we lost five billion dinars with all this because your minister was unable to respect the Constitution and the law and it was the Constitutional Court's decision, not mine or anyone else's. Of course I'm accusing myself of some indiplomaticity here because you don't like the truth. I don't understand what kind of diplomacy that doesn't tell the truth. What did I say wrong? It's like listening to gentlemen from Croatia who always say – there are heavy or flammable statements, and they never tell which statements they are. Wasn't Aloysia Stepinac a Ustasha army Vicar? Is it a shame to tell the truth? Isn't it a fact that the flags "For Home Ready" appeared on the tomb of the Jasenov children? Are we supposed to keep quiet, pretend for diplomacy that it didn't happen? It's not this power and power that Alexander Vukic runs... I quote Boris Tadic – we Serbs are guilty of war in Croatia. It's not that kind of power. We're not you. To quote again, you remember the talks with dear Ivo, so you know at a time when we could resolve the issue of property rights of Serbs expelled from Croatia, when we could resolve the issue of their pension rights, their property rights, their employment, at a time when the European Commission told the Croatian state that first all these issues must be agreed with the Serbian state, then only then enter the EU, we talked about dear Ivo and gentlemen, we will say all this when you become an EU member. As you can see, they've become a member of the EU, they can keep us on that path, and they haven't done anything to us that we've been looking for. The property rights haven't been settled, pensions haven't been settled, no work experience issues resolved, not everything we could have solved when we had to tell the truth and be brave. We were then saying "Dear Ivo" and that we are more guilty of war" and we will wait for it to happen when you become EU members. They are members of the EU, and we are left without pensions, property and everything else left by Serbs in Croatia. That's not what this government is gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33777	Vladimir Djukanovic sought a replica at the start of Radoslav Milojic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33778	Thank you, Chairman. You know, when someone talks about life under some authority, I'll read it to you, I hope you all remember that tragedy of "Glutin" by Milet Cavic, 49 years old, burned himself in front of the Assembly here. The quick intervention of the security guards saved his life, but he said the following - don't let me get burned, but you can't stop me from throwing myself off the bridge, I'm not coming home, I have nothing to go back to, I borrowed bread this morning and I can't live like that anymore. It's about a worker at the “Glutin” Veterinary Institute. At the time of your authority, that's how a man lived. We also have examples of members of the Army jumping off the building because of their complete lack of property in your time, and with all the families, and you don't want to talk about it. Mr. Vulin, I'm glad that you've now provided this information that is very important, that someone's salary is raised here, and never more salaries in the security system have been made, and we need to invest more money. What's crucial is we don't have to borrow money and owe the state to pay someone's salary or to pay military insurance pensions that went into retirement. They did it. They've been unwittingly in charge of this country, and they've actually bought the votes of certain members of our armed forces. We don't do that, we raise people's salaries from real sources, living standards, and we raise even more. I am pleased that Mr. Vukic announced that the very security system, i.e. the security forces, will raise the salary, of course, to raise the level of operational work in terms of better technique. In their day they didn't have people for boots, and today we have new equipment and new uniforms and new techniques and new guns and a lot of things that are really, really good and that's why this is something that's much better than it was in their period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33779	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. To whom exactly? (Radoslav Milojičić: On the mention of DS, Mr Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33780	First, the DS did not come to power in 2000 by bringing someone, but by the election will of citizens and citizens of Serbia, Mr Martinovic. Under number two, who supports him speaks in favour of you winning the most winning election in prisons. In prisons, you make the most convincing of your victories, so it says in favor of who supports you. I don't think it's fair for you to compare, that the SNS and the current government, the people and the army. You are not, nor will you be, nor have you been in the past. All of us, Serbian citizens, the Republika Srpska Army, have nothing to do with your policy. We only paid the price of your policy in the '90s, and that's a big difference, there's a big difference. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to tell me where you live. I know it's hard for you as a secretary of defense to go to the store, not because you're lazy, that you don't get me wrong, but because of the entire security sector and all that. I know exactly where you live and how hard it is for workers who work in a building across the street. It's all normal, no matter who the Secretary of Defense is, I'm not getting into it. I'm entering the fact that you said there's no inflation. Does anyone of yours go to the store, so they give you some information about how the citizens live? I know you of your angry cars and leather chairs don't see that Serbian citizens don't have to give their children lunch, but I'm asking you to get down to reality. I don't want to answer to Mr. Djukanovic. Use the tragedy to be politically accounted for here. It's beneath every level of discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33781	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if DS had legally come to power on October 5, 2000, then they would not have entered the building of the then Federal Assembly and set fire to the entire election material of the Federal Election Commission, and I call on you from the DS to show the election material by which you won the elections held on 24 September 2000. There is no election material, because you set it on fire and declared it, with the help of Chumet, Legion, Zemun Clan, Surcin Clan, etc., the victory of Vojislav Kostunica in the first round. That's one thing. The second thing, the DS is competing with the most extreme members of the Croatian political elite in accusing Serbia and the Serb people of the former Yugoslavia's collapse. Are you aware? What you're saying, it's no longer the UN tribunal's prosecution. I don't know if you read the daily press. Yesterday, the UN tribunal's prosecutorial office admitted in its appeal against Radovan Karadzic that Ali Izetbegovic, that the BiH Army shelled its own people on the street of Vasa Miskina, that the BiH Army shelled the market at Markalam and you show up in 2018 and say – because of you from SNS, "blue helmets" came. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33783	Time. Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33784	Thank you, Chairman. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Member of 107, is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, the dignity of the Serbian Army officer has been injured, the dignity of all military personnel has been injured, as well as of all citizens. Representatives of the party that systematically and planfully destroyed Serbia's Army for decades, 12 years. From 2000 to 2012, systematically and planically, basically destroying Serbia's Army, today resent, honour and bring some criticism to the expense of the Serbian Army. Well, the previous speaker is known only for the affair he and the president of his party had when it comes to selling the House of the Army in the Smederjevska Palanca in 2011. So, senior DS official Radoslav Milojic Kena and Dragan Sutanovac, who was then the defence minister, participated in the suspicious business of the purchase of the House of the Army in Smederjevska Palanca, which damaged the municipality and the state by 13.5 million dinars. They bought it from the DOD, then Minister Dragan Sutanovac, and then sold it for twice as cheap to Delez Serbia. This damaged Smederevska Palanka municipality by 13.695,000.00 dinars. So they don't care about the material position of soldiers or the situation in Serbia's military. They only cared about their interest, how to make a combination, how to abuse the budget, how to take some money from both the military and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33785	Ambassador, this was a replica. You started by explaining why I hurt Article 107, and then you entered the replica, so it's hard for me to recognize that I contributed to the injury of Article 107, or to the dignity of the National Assembly. Please don't vote on it. I gave the replica to Radoslav Milojic on the violation of the Rules of Procedure Martinovic, and I did hurt the Rules of Procedure, but no one thought of it. I'm reporting it myself. (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. Personal mention. ( b) Replica. What do you say? (Vladimir Orlic and Vladimir Djukanovic: Personal mention. Let me run the session for a minute. I don't know why my messenger got up and stood up without giving him my word. I've got more logs. Slowly, to finish, to assess whether we should go to the third round, etc. Vladimir Djukanovic was mentioned personally, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33786	I'm mentioned, of course, the chairman. It's really scandalous what someone just said. I was told to abuse tragedy here, and by the way, I quoted the man who tried to kill himself, and I quoted what he said, and the man who, by the way, used it every once in a while to tell us that the boy committed suicide because he didn't have a snack. And the one who really participates in creating an affair - a helicopter, where in the worst way possible they abused the tragedy that happened, to campaign against Bratislav Gasic. They've been doing it for months. He's talking about whether or not someone's abuse of tragedy. You're not ashamed of yourself. Do you have any shame at all? Of course, when we talk about some popularity, you, sir, can't win in your own Glibovac. You lost your conviction because there's a SNS, in a place where they know you best, got almost 60%, in your village, and you didn't even get 15. Aren't you ashamed to talk to someone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33788	Thank you. First, I got 40%, so you didn't tell the truth either. On the other hand, if someone had a little shame, and if he were a member of the SNS, he would be ashamed in front of these honorable officers to say the word - helicopter. I would ask the previous speaker to say, Vladimir Djukanovic, how did I participate in the affair - a helicopter? Is it possible I wasn't the Secretary of Defense, General or Commander of the Air Force? Indeed, the lies you say here can only be compared to the Grimm brothers. Of course we from DS are proud of our long history. The next year will be 100 years from the establishment of the DS, especially as we are different from you, because in the 1990s we have advocated peace, for conversation, for the problems among the people to be solved at the Green Table, not by the challenge of conflict, for which you were responsible and for what your policy is personally responsible. I have a daughter who's five years old and she knows one rule, that you have to answer for everything you do in life, but that's the quality of honest people, not those people who have no shame or cheek.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33789	Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33790	So it's clear that the man has no shame whatsoever. The dead cold one said something that, I guess, the entire public saw as he was involved in creating an affair — a helicopter. Well, I guess we all know what they're saying here in the Assembly. I don't know why you're ashamed of it now, or you might be ashamed of it later now, as you're lying about your score. By the way, you're the best citizens in your place, in your community, to judge how you are because you passed as barefoot in those elections. What's key, you've been talking since you were nineties. Well, your leader was turning the ox on the palaces. I defied NATO planes. You forgot that now. The thing with Radovan Karadzic, who did you then consider to be a great friend of the DS, I don't know why you gave him up like that? You were at the Palace in 1993, and while NATO was bombing, you were turning your ox on the Palace, your party president. Are you giving him up today? Not to mention when the second bombing of Republika Srpska was, when your second leader, Boris Tadic, organized gatherings outside the US Embassy. As a student he took me there and spoke – Clinton the Peacekeeper, how many Serbian children did you kill today? What are you ashamed of today? How can you not be ashamed? So obviously someone has an ex post mind and just uses the opportunity, politically of course, to abuse all sorts of tragedies and of course to get an ex-post mind to place lies here for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33791	Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33792	Says the previous speaker to celebrate next year 100 years since the founding of the DS. I think Ljuba Davidovic, Milan Gro, spins in the grave when they see who is representing the DS in the Serbian Parliament today. From Ljuba Davidović and Milan Grol to Kena road paved by tears, pain, horror, crime, robbery privatisations etc. I would now ask this Glibovac genius to tell me exactly, that he is not speaking at all – it is your fault, it is your fault, who exactly is responsible for the fall of the former Yugoslavia? What did we Serbs do to break up the former Yugoslavia? What have we done? We were until the last moment to preserve a comprehensive Yugoslavia. Did we first form paramilitary formations or did Franjo Tudjman and HDZ do it in Croatia in 1990? Did the military counterintelligence department record Martin Spegel explaining to his associates how they were arming from Austria, Hungary, obtaining "kalashnikovs" etc? Do you remember what Croatian Interior Minister Josip Bolekovac was saying - knock on the door to JNA officers, when they open the door, shoot them in the head? And now we Serbs are to blame for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. You have no idea. You have no idea. You're embarrassing your own country. I don't think it's gonna be long before the DS says the Serbs are responsible for the genocide in Jasenovac... . (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... . And in Old Town... (President: Time. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... etc. (President: Time. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Get your hand under your hand with the Ustashas... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33793	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like to compare us with Ustashas? Did you hear what he said? ) You did not notice that I turned off the microphone and that the MP had no more time. No, because you won't notice, because you won't notice. (Radoslav Milojic: No, but to give him a warning. Don't yell. Are we going to continue this debate or are we going home? You want a replica? Radoslav Milojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33794	I would like to begin by explaining why, for this shameful speech, the MP did not receive a minimum notice or disfellowshipping from the session. Did you hear what Mr. Martinovic said? And you're not interested in that? Now he confirms he's told the truth. It's really embarrassing that you're pretending you haven't heard because you can't give him a warning, and we're proud of our president of the DS and the first democratic prime minister of Serbia who gave his life for this country, who in your time as you advocated the wars, declared him a traitor and anyone who was against the war in 1999, because he had to flee the country because of your wartime Hague policy, which in 1998 and 1999 led to this. Yeah, I'm proud to be from the village and I'm proud to be from the village of Glibovac and I'm proud of all the people who are in villages and cities and I'm not like you, like you, running away from your village, buying an apartment in Belgrade, and now I'm pretending to be a Belgrader. Yeah, I'm a Central Serbian Sumadian, and I'm proud of what you're making fun of. What I can tell you is that as we now do not give up any of our party presidents, whether it is Zoran Djindjic, Grol, Ljuba Davidovic, Dragan Djilas, Bojan Pajtic. We're proud of all these people, because what they did for Serbia, you'll never understand. You gave up Seselj first, now you gave up Tomislav Nikolic, and you will give up Vukic very quickly. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33795	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33796	I see that the previous speaker... (Radoslav Milojic: I didn't mention him.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33797	You said it was a dirty pumpkin. (Radoslav Milojic: To whom? Don't, please, let me run the session. When you lead the lead how... (Radoslav Milojičić: If you recognized him as a potted pumpkin, I agree. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33798	I see that the previous speaker was very upset, just slowly, don't fall into the fire it's not good for either physical or mental health, but I think now all the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia have heard what LJube Davidovic and Milan Grol said, that because of Serbia's war-torn policies... (Radoslav Milojic: Serbian Progressive Parties, not Serbia. ) Okay, so in 1998 and 1999, there was a NATO aggression. We are now going back to what Mr. Vulin said, not responsible for Haradinaj, not responsible for Hashim Thaci, not responsible for those who took out Serbian organs in the "yellow house", the KLA is not responsible. You Serbs are responsible because there was an armed rebellion by the Shipar in KIM, and you were in the war because of you, the wicked and the corrupt Serbs, NATO had to intervene. It is the official NATO Pact policy of 1999, but in this policy today, in 2018, the NATO Pact no longer believes. Now also those who were the hottest Albanian lobbyists in America claim to be people who run the so-called today. Kosovo republic drug dealers, criminals and war criminals. You are the last person to believe that Serbia is responsible because the NATO Pact bombed it in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33799	Thank you. Dear MPs, as we conduct the debate for exactly an hour which does not apply to the agenda and I see by the list of registered ones, who, apart from Komlenski, have not reported to discuss the points of the agenda and the proposals of the law, I am determining a five-minute break. It takes an hour for this debate, dear colleague, an hour for this debate to take place. Everyone had plenty of time. Don't yell. Five minutes off. [[after breaks]] We can continue on the agenda. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33801	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, distinguished presidents, respected ministers with associates, what is indisputable is that the strongest weapon that a man in life can have is true, and the best motive to defend his country is precisely love for his country. This is not taught at special American courses, or at the Marshall Centre for Security Studies in Garmispartekinhern, as taught by the market’s quitter, it is taught at the High Defence Studies, the highest national school in which to learn how to run the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Always a soldier in Serbia was a commitment that was never questioned, and being an officer was a special honor for every Serb. Serbia's army has always been a pillar of statehood, a pillar of stability and its strength and power have always been the reason for giving up many to threaten Serbia's borders. When the Army was strong, the state was strong. When the army was weak, the enemies were unmistakably choosing the moment when and how it would threaten Serbia's freedom and honor. After the uprising led by Karadjordje, a rebel and rebel army was formed from people who could no longer suffer the evil. The First World War went to an army that, defending honor and dignity of a small but brave state, showed that freedom and home threshold are something that defends itself at all costs. In World War II, we were led by the idea of antifascism. All this together in 1999 was something that was a motive for the Army of Serbia, because then we fought for the house threshold at all costs, against the fascism that awakens, staunchly and rebelliously against the greatest and most powerful force, and all for Serbia. Although since the Petoctobar coup in 2000, 12 years have seemed all to forget these values, the humiliation of soldiers and officers, the extradition to The Hague tribunal, this criminal and anti-Serbian illegal formation, the bravest, most frequent among us, were delivered to Serbian generals, Serbian soldiers, only to enlist sponsors who brought the coup to power. Their crawling and crawling were disgusted even by their employers, for they did much more than they asked them to. So they agreed to a thousand times more humiliations than the Austro-Hungarians in 1914 asked small Serbia. To secure their chairs, fill their pockets, allow our skies to remain unprotected, make our security zone a space for drug trafficking, to sell out weapons for less money than it was worth as a waste, and unlike what they realized, they filled their pockets. They became owners of grasslands and residential buildings and dollars laundered their own conscience, if they had it at all. But they were wrong, like many before them. Since 2012, young people who volunteer for military service clearly show what they think about the destruction of the barracks, the abolition of compulsory military service, and civilians in the military are the guarantee of the survival of democracy. I ask you to reconsider and consider the possibility of opening space for an even greater number, for now volunteers, and hopefully returning one modified mandatory military service. The honor, antifascism and love for Serbia is in the genetic code of this people and cannot be changed by just 12 years of thieving. This set of laws that we now have ahead of us is now continuing the successful recovery of the Serbian Army, allowing for the return of honor and dignity to every member of the Serbian Army who has always belonged to him in the eyes and eyes of this people. It is not easy, but from Aleksandar Vukic, through Gasic, Djordjevic, to Aleksandra Vulin, all the defence ministers managed to live and work in decent conditions today through continued and systematic work, not to be ashamed as until 2012, because they had at least eight different types of uniforms and looked like a voluntary hunting society. But they couldn't be better dressed or trained because then the ministers were only interested in how to shut down the barracks, sell the tools and weapons into defunct, how to take commissions and get them out safely abroad. How much better we would be in a material position if we weren't forced to repurchase tanks that were sold for less than 5,000 dollars, weapons and other equipment that were sold in vain only those who struggled with it daily. In addition, the Serb soldier is again respected and respected among his colleagues today. With its participation in the Serbian Army's peacekeeping missions every day, it confirms that Serbia is militaryly neutral, that it is always ready to be where it is necessary to participate in ensuring peace, working there and acting as if Serbia is concerned. For this reason, we will unreservedly support this set of laws, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside Serbia's borders. This will greatly facilitate the procedures for the engagement of the Serbian Army in multinational forces, but also fully ensure full control by parliament, as the highest legislative body, on where the Serbian Army will be engaged, and that is what is important and that is what this parliament's job is. The proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act allow for the regular monitoring and application of all regulations and compliance with the changes made, but thus provide an adequate guarantee of the verification and confidentiality of the documents in question, such as the Annual State and Defence Report. The proposed solutions of the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment will allow for faster and safer development of the military industry, but for the first time the concept of a group of defence industry in Serbia is introduced and this should be constantly clarified, so that this concept is not misused. These are business entities which, despite allowing funds to be invested by natural or even foreign persons, will remain the majority share exclusively owned by the Republic of Serbia. An example of statehood provided for by this law and the conversion of the former social property into state property by the State also having to invest and invest funds in the value of social property and practically by purchasing majority property is exactly the opposite of what has been done through robbery privatisation until 2012. The basic characteristics of the solutions proposed regarding the Law on the Serbian Army are precisely the security of social security and the raising of the age limit up to 53 years of life, as long as a work contract can be renewed, or for certain formations up to 65 years is very important because it meets the conditions under the laws of the Republic Fund PIO to earn full pensions. The law on military education will be the subject of further debate, in order to improve the proposed solutions, but what is important is that it does not limit established good practice, that now retired war generals and officers can appear as lecturers in our military schools, of which I particularly single out General Lazarevic, but all of whom we expect to transfer their war and invaluable experiences to young future cadets or future soldiers of the Serbian Army. This war experience and the morals they possess and their dignity are very important for future morals and the education of Serbian soldiers. Don't be surprised that some people are complaining today because they're looking for investors to capitalize on companies from this group, because they obviously don't work for domestic interests. It even bothers her that as possible foreigners who will enter the work, production and ownership of this group will also be Chinese. The Chinese first showed today that they are one of the largest friends of the Republic of Serbia, the second that they are one of the healthiest investors because they possess huge capital that they can and want to invest. And it is no coincidence that what England is doing, which is coming out of the EU, retains ties with the EU and real problems in the Balkans, is precisely to try to prevent further investments by the Chinese in the Republic of Serbia and on the line from Piraeus to Budapest, so that they will somehow come into possession of these investments, because if they do not get hold of it, England will soon go bankrupt. Gentlemen, here are the comments that are deluded in relation to this and other laws that are clearly handled and sought by the party, and it is obvious that it is simply fulfilling the wishes of the employers who have never been in the best interest of Serbia. Serbia has been and will remain above all else. The military is something that needs to be out of the crackdown on politics, and therefore the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will support these laws in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33802	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33803	Thank you, President. Let's say, Article 109. Do you not hear what the MPs here say during their speeches? Can't you hear what's going on in this room? Did you not hear what the previous speaker said about our stranger, what he said about those who led our party, who led it? Didn't you hear Mr. Martinovic say we were Ustasha? Do you not know that this is the fifth or sixth day that this is the way this assembly is harassing us? If there was any doubt that you really didn't hear, you didn't see, you didn't read or anything else that you've been extricating and justifying in public that it was the case, today you've absolutely divorced that suspicion. What Serbian radicals say, says Aleksandar Martinovic. What Serbian radicals say you support and what Serbian radicals say is what all these MPs who threw us during the speech of Aleksandar Martinovic, who not only enthusiastically accepted his accusation that we were Ustasha, but confirmed and said so. Today you have separated absolutely every suspicion. These exhibits today, I'm sorry, they look like the '90s to watch the RTS or Politics Diaries, when, like now, you were all in one party together, all leading a policy that has ruined hundreds of thousands of people in this country, tens of thousands of people cost their homes and thousands of people cost their lives. You've separated every doubt.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33804	Thank you. I'm not going to punish the MPs today because I feel like from last week... (Alexandra Jerkov: You must punish. Punish Martinovic. Radoslav Milojic: So they can say anything and you won't punish them. ) You know what, I thought I'd give the answers, but when someone interrupts me in half of the sentence, I just don't have to, because you don't care, you stand up to tell me what you said, everything that didn't apply to Articles 107 and 109. There, the order is getting up, there's a member said, and we're moving on, so we can say what you wanted to say. Why do you say that? It's not clear to anyone. I heard very well today what MPs say to each other, I took a break. I also heard that when I gave the MP of Komlensky what you were cursing him, I didn't react, all to... (Alexandra Jerkov: I swear? Oh, yeah, they hear others. (Alexandra Jerkov: I swear? Shame on you! Don't yell, I'm talking, and you're listening. So she was cursing a letter from Jerkov very juicyly. I didn't mean to... Don't yell, let me explain a little. (Alexandra Jerkov: President, who did I curse? ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Speak the truth! ) A five-minute break, to try the MPs of the DS who stayed in session to calm down, to let them at least get an answer when they ask for it, when they ask for something. So you don't care about that. Let's move on. The word has Stefan Miladinović. I'm holding a session as Parliament Speaker. The word has Stefan Miladanovic, because there is no desire to hear the answer at all, and the question arises. Who doesn't want to hear the argument... Here you go, Stefana Miladanovic. (Alexandra Jerkov: According to the Rules of Procedure!) [[Radoslav Milojic: You took a break!]] ) Please calm down, so by June we'll be out of your inner-party choices. Well, calm down, so that's just your problem. (Alexandra Jerkov: President, who did I curse? You've cursed me now. I ask three MPs from the DS to let us work. The word has Stefan Miladinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33805	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, guests from the ministry, representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Serbian Army, before I begin the presentation, I would ask my colleagues from the Democratic Party to allow me to discuss. (Maya Vidinović: Business. ) As I have had the patience to listen to your authorised representative, I hope you will have the patience to listen to me. [[Alexandra Jerkov: Please, you took a break. According to the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33806	I ask Alexander Jerkov to leave Stefan Miladanovic alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33807	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33808	We're not all guilty now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33809	There's a package of national security laws on the agenda, especially the defense system...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33810	Ambassador Jerkov, please and Maja Vidinović... You two MPs, this is chaos! (Radoslav Milojic: You called us Ustashas. How do you propose we get over this? Well, I've been through everything, so you curse me, so you beat me, so I don't know what I didn't experience in this term, so come on, please, and that's not what you're saying. (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. I'm sorry, MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33811	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33812	I'm sorry, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33813	Thank you. The proposals ahead are accompanied by a national security strategy and a strategy of the national security system of the Republic of Serbia and should contribute to a more efficient and modern defence system of our country. With respect to the complexity and size of the defence system, I will start by looking at two basic laws of the defence system, which are the Law on Defence and the Law on the Military, that is to amend and supplement these laws aimed at removing some legal gaps and inaccuracies in certain solutions, and certainly the entire defence law package tends to cooperate more effectively with the civil sector, above all with national security entities. The proposed solutions to these two laws are solutions to the competent and professional people of the defence sector of the Ministry and the military, and certainly these people face challenges during the implementation of these laws, and I believe that the proposed solutions are the result of both the profession and the assessment of what is best for the military and the Ministry of Defence. For us MPs, it is important that, in the proposals of these laws, the solutions are in line with the Constitution and in line with national policy, national defence policy and follow the trends in the development and improvement of the military sector. A more efficient defence system requires greater involvement of the civil sector and a package of this law strengthens this link, i.e. co-operation. What we support is the possibility of obtaining the status of the association, of particular importance for defence, which contributes by means of its programme and action to strengthening the defence system. My colleague Vesna Ivkovic will talk about this a little bit more, and we have submitted an amendment to article 76 of the applicable law regarding the association. Amendments and additions to the Military Act follow the amendments and additions of the Defence and Defence Strategy Act, especially in the context of military-civil co-operation. The service in Vojsca will include not only professional soldiers, but also civil servants and tenants, as well as civilians who will be able to be placed in those places that so far belonged exclusively to the military. These changes will also allow civilian participation in the affairs of the military in the Ministry of Defence and the military judiciary, where other than the jury's military judges will be able to participate civil judges. Our MP group particularly praises the solutions concerning the position of professional members of the Army, as these changes will make their status more favourable by moving the age line up to which a working contract can be renewed, making it possible for a trainee who worked on specific content jobs to achieve the conditions for going to retirement in accordance with the PIO Act. What is a good solution is that easier career advancement is possible, and those who have completed military school do not meet health conditions for working as professional soldiers can be admitted to the service without competition as a civilian. Another solution that we consider to be good, given that in order to prevent the spillout of the educational staff, it is that after schooling and training, members of the Army will be obliged to spend a certain period of time in the ministry. Speaking of education, today is the agenda and the Law on Military Education. Serbia is as rare as a country in the environment, as well as in Europe, to praise the long and rich tradition of military education. The nearly 170-year-long tradition is closely linked to the process of creating a modern Serbian state. At the proposal of Ilia Garashanina in 1850, Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic formed the First Higher Educational Institute, the tradition of this school's heritage today and also preserves the Military Academy in Belgrade. The fundamental reforms that have been implemented in this area in recent years can be said by the beginnings of the 1990s that are harder to profile a new, modern and efficient and functional system of military education. A few stages have passed, we can say that this is the final phase of the reform of higher education, because it also meant the formation of a military university, which united the work of the Military Academy and the Military Academy. So far, the military university as an accredited higher school institution has been formed in accordance with the Law on Higher Education because of the specificity of the defence system, as well as the tasks arising from the profession, is a clear need for its formation to be regulated by a special law. Within the university, complete educational and scientific research work will be united, and academic studies will be conducted within three scientific fields at all levels of academic studies. Reform and reorganisation of the military-school system also refers to secondary education. The secondary military schools will be able to form as high school, as secondary schools and mixed schools, and we consider a good solution and the possibility of forming mixed departments if it shows up, i.e. indicates the need for a specific education profile. Regardless of what schools will be military institutions, they will be an integral part of a network of secondary schools in Serbia. The reputation of our army and the tradition we have obliges us to approach more and more seriously the issue of military education at all levels. The participation of our army in multinational operations under the auspices of both the UN and the EU also confirm the capacity of our armed forces and education certainly and the training of officers and military medical staff, and here above all I mean military health and scientific technical achievements of our military and military-medical experts who have been recognised everywhere in the world. The participation of military members in UN and EU multinational operations is an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia and in line with the National Security Strategy. An important law on the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia has regulated the use and preparation of Serbia's military and other defence forces to participate in multinational operations, rights and obligations and competent authorities, as well as members, or participants in these operations, their funding as well as any other important issues for the implementation of the mission. Changes and additions to this are the result of the need to overcome identified problems in practical application in order to better coordinate activities between competent authorities and the procedures for making the necessary decisions to participate in peacekeeping missions and multinational operations. The National Assembly will decide in the future on participation in these operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which is not time-limited while the government will adopt an annual plan on a proposal from the ministry. Also, the National Assembly will decide on which multinational operation we can direct members of the Serbian Army and determine their number, and certainly the decision would be valid until the term of office or the withdrawal of a member of the Serbian Army expires. We welcome our control function, and we will achieve this, by considering the report on the implementation of Serbia's Army's annual implementation plan and other defence forces in multinational operations. Our participation in these operations has shown the need to refer to the area of operations persons who will support the forces involved in carrying out the mission's mandate. This law will allow this, and the certificate of competence for participation in multinational operations will be a prerequisite for sending them. These persons will certainly be referred exclusively in the event of a need for effective implementation of tasks on the ground. In line with the Constitution and the laws and strategic documents that I have mentioned several times, Serbia participates in multinational operations and thus contributes naturally and peace and stability in the world, as well as in resolving all issues in a peaceful way. We will adopt a decision at this session in accordance with the applicable law on the participation of members of the Serbian Army and an annual plan to use the Army in multinational operations for 2018. As a member of the UN who has a long tradition of participation in these operations, and in many of us today we have heard from you ministers about the participation of members and members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, so far there are nine of them, and we have 328 members on the ground. I believe the number of women, even though you mentioned 38, will be higher year by year. Whether it is a combat or not peace operation, it is necessary to highlight the exceptional human potential we have. I hope we have a more successful mission in the coming period. On the agenda is an extremely important law, can be said of vital importance to our economy, is the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. Analyzing the proposal, we can conclude that the law monitors the needs of industry and monitors the need for the adoption of new technologies in line with the international standards, but also the need to demilitarise and exploit arms and military equipment in the Republic of Serbia, which is more than necessary. The military industry is one of Serbia's most important economic branches and this law allows further development of our weapons and military equipment production. It is known that our country was a large and significant manufacturer of weapons, military equipment and dual-use goods, which we exported around the world. A new global international regulation, which primarily refers to stricter control of the production and transport of weapons, requires UN Member States to monitor, comply with all regulations and introduce modern standards in the military industry. A large number of countries today, regardless of the privatisation of military-industrial complexes, support development in weapons production as part of foreign, military and economic policy. The tradition of our arms and military equipment industry requires a stable and modern control system and the Republic of Serbia in this regard has fulfilled all its obligations to international documents and has operated responsibly on the world market, and I believe that this law will protect both our international credibility and our integrity. The need for stricter control of production itself, but also of transport, has been introduced into this law, starting with the necessary technical documentation for manufacturers, the need for the harmonisation of arms and military equipment, the obligation to produce and deliver documents for the implementation of the manufacturer's industrial skills and obligations regarding safety and health at work and environmental protection. In order to create a more favourable business in the military industry, the law allows for the first time the controlled recapitalisation of companies through private and foreign investments, which can speed up the modernisation of military weapons, of course, with a view to recapitalisation, there must be a strict control of the state. We consider a good proposal to form a group of Serbia's defence industry, because it is an industry that needs the state to have a control package, especially when it comes to seven businesses, which are vital to the military industry. Our military industry may not be at the technological summit, but it is certainly still known for its competitive and quality equipment and weapons. Some of our products in the conventional weapons category, such as Nora or the Lasta plane, are still internationally competitive and I am convinced that in the coming years we will be able to develop some new technologies in the arms industry, and will certainly retain the position of the largest exporter and producer of Southeast Europe. So much for now, and I believe my colleagues will explain the other laws later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33814	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33815	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to start by putting some things in place here. First, I think that we should define what we want from our security services at all, and if we go from that definition, especially to the BIA, as well as of course every service in general that does this job, that it does and has some conspiracies in it, then we certainly can't rely on a concept that's normally ruled for many years, which is that every document of that service is on the table. It's been that way for years, unfortunately. Why? Because someone systematically destroyed our security community, he was very targeted at doing it. Elem, why am I saying this? There is a rude practice here that if you say for someone – he works for the BIA; that is, the former Service of State Security or any earlier service, and even from that socialist period – uh, he's a draw, he's a denutian, he's not sure what he is. Here if you say that you happen to be a co-worker of the CIA, an associate of perhaps some foreign intelligence service, so you're making progress in your career here. You could've come to the most possible place here at the time of the government of those who are now complaining about these laws, just because, say, you might have been an associate of such a service somewhere. If you accidentally worked for our service – if you were ashamed, you were defending the country, you're a denutian, you're a draw, etc. Ludi, this is where that consciousness has to change. It's an honor to work for our service. It is an honor to work for our service and to protect the interests of our country. There is no greater honor than that, and I, of course, want to help the BIA members this way as much as we can. Well, this is where they asked us questions about the education of the BIA chief. I can say that his education is extremely large, you don't even know him enough. He is a graduate economist, first of all, unlike many of your predecessors, who is a question of how they were with education, but you, in time, some of your officials, one even director of the publishing house, were fascinated for example. Free Penezic Krcun. Fascinated, even in a show of such beautiful words he spoke of Krcun, as if it were one wonderful man, as if not after World War II who knows what he was doing. I'm asking a question, and who was Christian's education? For example, I am even glad that you published it from the VBA, but of course in collaboration also with one of your officials earlier, the KOS documents on the follow-up of Rankovic. I see that some were fascinated by Rankovic, with all due respect to those people who had passed party schools, had this very acquired education. I'm asking a question, what kind of education did they get? Here, Rankovic was, for example, a rhubarb, I think, but you're fascinated by them, as many of you are fascinated by Joseph Broz. For example, you have often objected to Tomislav Nikolic who has a college, but you have been fascinated by Broz, and objectively it was what, a blacksmith or someone from Kumrovec, so at least they officially tell us. The Kumrovec Machinbravar, so it's fascinating to me how you always find that you're talking about the education of someone, and many of you admired such officials who had no objective education for such functions, but now we're not talking about it. The BIA law that's being passed here is actually progressing in democracy because now we can really see what the BIA director is doing. In your time, you've done all this beyond the law and secrets, and today someone has defined by law what the Chief of BIA should do and, of course, the Chief of BIA is going to assess the work of members of the service and it's normal that he's going to sign a solution to who's going to enter BIA.I.A. I'm sorry, in every public firm, it's the director who's signing your decision on who's going to be employed. The director is the one, after all, who assesses who works. Who else is supposed to do that? Of course, that's what you forget to say here, he can do anything, even that systematization, with the previous consent of the government, because BIA is primarily a government agency, but I guess that's something that's normal. You don't think anyone else is going to do this, do you? It's really something amazing. Then you say there's no competition for BIA members. That's not true. The competition isn't mandatory, but it can exist. Of course it will exist for certain places, I suppose, Mr. Panic, for example, legal places in the BIA, or for the place of someone who works in the BIA technique, although, of course, there should be a lot of care. You can't call an operative a contest. Who's doing it? Are you out of your mind? Let's draw what kind of operative we need and then, of course, any other foreign service plantes its own man and says, "Here we have the one who meets those conditions. We'd be holed up completely. No one does that, there's no service in the white world that receives such members as you would have imagined. On the other hand, she's checking out the security work for the BIA members, anyone who knows, or who's had any contact with people in the security system, especially if he's been on security control committees, knows that it's checking out where your literally blood cells are checking. It's impossible for someone who's fallen off Mars just as unprofessional to get into the BIA. It's out of my mind, and that security check is the key to getting into the BIA. You know, I'd really ask you not to talk any more nonsense about some kind of transparency and I don't know what we've been experiencing, but this really public needs to know, we've been experiencing that our security services and the VBA, and even BIA even, had to have a transparent public procurement of their own. Is that normal? Let's now inform every country in this world what we want to get. Who does that? Are you normal when someone asks? It's something that really has to be top secret. What kind of system we have, after all, all that kind of technique, what we've produced, it doesn't have to be quite that way. And then they say -- oh, that's where the secret information system is disturbed, it's not true. It is these laws that you now define at last what in the defense system, above all, can be considered classified information. Well, it would be best if you had a whole and whole defense strategy to present our entire system to everyone in the diary, that would probably be best. Well, come on, people, let's not mess with the service and the security system. What I must, Mr. Minister, commend you, and that no one has noticed here, for the first time, you, or this country for the first time, has introduced military neutrality as part of this country's defence system, or as something we will have to defend and protect. It's never been anywhere before. For the first time, this law introduces that it is of strategic interest and that it is something that the military, first of all, and, of course, all the other state authorities will have to work on. So there's no chance of breaking something like this. We are a military neutral country, we have no idea that we are entering neither the NATO Pact nor any other military alliance, and that is now fine by law and defined. And I'm sorry no one noticed. This is something that is of paramount importance to our security system. As far as the military itself is concerned, we've heard here that the Secretary of Defense or I don't know who has to serve the military term. That's notorious nonsense. And why is that? Well, we won't have a defence minister at all in the future, given that an earlier military deadline has been lifted, these young men will one day come to the post of Secretary of Defense, so how will they, without a military deadline, come if you're in favour of a different system now? First, the defence minister is a political function. The Secretary of Defense is not a military function. After all, we have a defence minister who is women in some other countries, and maybe something like that will happen to us. (Radoslav Milojic: What about deserters? Is that it? I don't know, as far as deserter's concerned, maybe there was someone with you. But what's very important is, let's not make any more noises, because in the future, we're going to have to lift the office of Secretary of Defense if we ask that someone who served the military term must, the only condition for him to be a minister of defense. It's bullshit, it's a political function, and the defense system itself is usually a very neat system, where you essentially come to something that's over, you know exactly the hierarchy that works and how it works. It's not now, I don't know, the ministry of someone who's been completely ruined, so now you don't know how it works. The minister essentially comes to an end. It's a highly arranged system, and it's a good thing our army is like that. What I would ask you, Minister, which is precisely because of the challenge, here no one is saying, I'm afraid that our challenges are going to be bigger and bigger, especially with regard to KIM and other pressures, but what is happening in the Middle East and possible attack on Iran, and I think that's going slowly, we're going to have a clearly migrant crisis again. We'll also have to get more and more renovate and modernise the work of our services, especially the VBA and VOA. I must admit that one of the catastrophic errors in our security system, the scandalous error of the previous government was the abolition of the SID, the Information and Documentation Service. It was the service of the Federal Foreign Ministry, i.e. the SMIP and the right to tell you, no country in the world would do that, it's just us and it's a complete disaster. We in many embassies today, the question is whether we have people who know how it works and how our country should be informed of certain events. I hope that'll be restored sometime. I'd love to have our SID restored, but for the time being, we, unfortunately, don't have that, by the will of some people who obviously wanted to make as much contact as possible and have ruined our security community. I, by the way, pointed out during this debate that intervening in the work of our services, especially some stronger services and the CIA, MI6 and already who, I'm not saying here, or any of us, is taking it up, it's the personnel who write today the books that you've been writing. They write about how you gave them actually orders to put in certain people and who to submit to. What's scariest is that we've only reduced our security services during this period to chase the Hague indictees, not to protect the state. Or we had a defense system to deal exclusively with the fight against terrorism, not the protection of the state, which, of course, was the wrong concept. Someone purposely destroyed our defense system. What we're doing right now is something completely different. We're raising our defense system. And it's a good thing we're rebuilding the Army, and it's a good thing we're getting planes. Someone here tells us, your planes don't fly. Well, I'm sorry, you left us the land without a single plane, without a single plane. Today someone renews it, and in such an ugly way you talk about it. I don't understand why. This number of missions we usually have, so that's something that's really good, because someone respects our military, and the Russian Federation on the one hand and the other and the NATO Pact and we want to practice with everyone, but we're military neutral. Otherwise, I encourage you, Mr. Minister, to have as many missions as possible. The missions, first of all, are fixing the image of Serbia in the world. Of course, not the NATO Pact missions, but exclusively a mission under the flag of the UN and an EU mission, let's say, this fight against pirates in Somalia, etc., where our soldiers can really get dressed well and make a living, after all. Someone says here - there are small salaries in the Army. Well, yes, I agree, they would have to be bigger, but they were never bigger, unlike your time when people were leaving the army mass. What I would ask you, Minister, and that's our big problem in the military, it's a terrible problem in the military, and it's about the IT sector. You can't, for example, go to IT or wherever, keep people because some foreign company can pay them more, pay them a lot more, those people go there. It's a disaster. We need as much as possible to develop our technique and our systems in the Army. I'm very glad, say, that today we have a situation that our dedicated industry works five times better than it did in their period, five times. I'd like you to give us information on the production and sale of the ammunition we have today compared to their period. I think it's fascinating how much we make today. Of course, I'm not happy that ammunition ends up on who knows what markets, across various channels, because it's a market and various companies buy everything and everything, but the situation is exactly how we actually make money. We go out to the market and sell our weapons, and we get better and more modern. And it's an investment in the military, it's a real investment in the military. Of course, I call on citizens to continue to support our army and I am glad that it is the first institution of trust. I'd like to, of course, and for the BIA to come very soon. And I'm asking people to respect our security services. These people work day and night. We need to help them as much as we can. Let's not degrade our services anymore and always say that if someone works for our service, it's denunciant and draw. No, no, it's a man who works honorably for his country and fights for his country. And let's all help them. With these laws, I think we're really improving our security system, and of course, during further discussion, I'm going to present some more details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33816	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33817	I would also like to thank you, Mr. Djukanovic and Mrs. Miladinovic, for really, obviously, careful reading and with really great patience not only for participating in the session, but for making a great effort to read this extensive document and get out of it what you consider to be the most important. I really want to say, here's one of the things that no one has noticed, which is really very important, humanly important, which is that our child who ends up at the Military Academy, and for whatever reason his medical condition breaks down, he gets sick, he gets hurt, or anything like that, if it's over, he can't be an officer, but why can't he be employed in the defense system? It's a human thing. We've been trying to do a lot of these little examples, wherever we've seen a way where we can help our member, where we can help our pytoman, our high school student to do so. We had a few, here, last year we had an example of two of our boys, found them a heart defect that wasn't at first. They've finished school and can't be officers. Well, is it supposed to be thrown away for four years in their lives? Of course not. There, it is a way and thank you for noticing it, as I would like to thank MP Djukanovic for what you have noticed, it is essential. Remember how many times there was a question of whether we'd keep military neutrality or not, well, here's the law. So you have to change the law. You can't do that, it's not that easy and so simple. It's not a political decision anymore today we're going to do one thing tomorrow, but it's the fundamental orientation of this country. And thank you for noticing that. It's really very important. There were questions here about who had some qualifications. You know, I'm, if that means anything, a politician, it doesn't have to mean anything, I've finished high-level security and defense studies. It's the highest school in our military education system. The tallest, no more. What I'm wearing here means that. I didn't finish the FBI course, I admit. I can't finish that, I can't finish the FBI course, I certainly couldn't be accepted there, but high-level security and defence studies of the Serbian Army can and I am very proud of it. It's not the main thing. Now let's get that out of the way. Let's be completely realistic. Does anyone really think that any civilian defence minister knows more about the Serbian Army than the Chief of Staff who spent his entire life in the military? He doesn't know and he doesn't need to know. It would be upside down if I knew more about the army than General Dikovic, who spent his entire life in the army. The bigger problem is that previous ministers at DOS time thought they knew more about the military than soldiers, and that's how they acted. What's my job in the army? My job is to have a big budget. It's my job to change the laws, so these laws correspond to the military, to ensure that the research goes to get as much good and quality weapons as possible, to ensure as a politician that we have an open passage as an army in other countries, in other defence ministries. It's my job and I'm trying to do it as best as I can, and of course the Chief of Staff and each of these generals, each of these officers here, will know more about the army. That's their job, that's how it should be, and then everyone does their job. It's mine to make sure they function and fight for their country. It's mine to provide friends, it's mine to provide communication, it's mine to make sure the Army can advance and grow. Who's gonna do that? Soldiers, that's why we pay them, that's why we school them, and that's why they're important. That's where we differ. We understand that managing an army and participating in military management is the greatest honor, and there is no commanding duty where you have become master of over 30,000 people, and that is not how we behave. We are grateful to these people in uniform for their sacrifice and courage and they need to know more, and we should be able to enable them to have their knowledge translated into the daily life of members of the Serbian Army and to protect our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33818	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: Do you see that I answered? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33819	Ladies and gentlemen... (Radoslav Milojic): The Democratic Party was mentioned not to have left any aircraft in the country. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33820	MP, let's try it again. Leave me alone already. You're really boring with the throw. (Radoslav Milojic): How can you talk like that? Ambassador, I'll give you a warning, we're not at the bar. I apologize to Ambassador Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33821	Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33822	I will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33823	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the security of citizens and the state is one of the most important issues. Certainly, the quality of security is regulated by laws, regulated by the quality of institutions dealing with these issues and regulated by technical and technological equipment. As far as these proposed laws are concerned, it is clear that the intensity for them to improve has been significantly exploited by the experiences and achievements of modern European standards. However, I would draw attention to the following. In addition to these moments I pointed out, for the quality of security, whether through the form of defence or other security agencies and institutions, it is a very important matter of trust. I point out this because in Serbia we have about 20%, perhaps even more, so almost 1/5 of the population, i.e. citizens who are not Serbian nationalities. It's been known that over the past decades we've had moments, especially through war conflicts that we don't have a unique position on right now. This is indeed an indication that it is very important to make sure that through legislation, but also through other aspects of action we get full support and full trust from all citizens of this country, including all peoples and communities who are not Serbian nationalities. There are certainly positive steps in this field and significant moments, such as the question of religion and religious rights in military facilities and the military in general, and this is well regulated from the aspect of the legislator, but we have certain shortcomings in practice, especially when it comes to members of Islam, or the Islamic community in the military. For the time being, however, inherited by previous authorities is that the military imams present are exclusively from one minority group of the Islamic community, which is unacceptable and which is an insufficiently positive message for other Muslims in this country. I expect this government, from the Minister and other structures, to approach this issue and this problem as soon as possible. We heard that Serbia's history is war history. So, in part, I can agree with that, but to the extent that history is generally useful, if we use it as a source of instruction and for what's right and for what's wrong. But what my expectations are and I believe most citizens and MPs are is that our future, or vision in the future of this country, is about learning from the past, not the memory of the past. I expect the future and vision of this country to be much better than what our past is and not to be a future of war, but to be the future of development and prosperity for all citizens and for the country in general. I would like to express myself very commendably on the military's willingness to co-operate and give its facilities to technological parks and other scientific and educational institutions. I want to support such a willingness to continue, so that this country in all its regions gets one technological park, a center of excellence, which we recently had a meeting in the president's office with the minister of education and other factors in charge of education. These are very good examples, because you know that such objects are still and that they can be redecorated and that they are actually given full support for the future, prosperity through education, not only military, but through all other aspects of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33824	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33825	Thank you, President. Dear Minister Vulin and his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of very important laws in the area of the Department of Defense. I have a feeling that today we talked more about politics than we talked about what the Ministry of Defence did in the previous period and why these laws, which are in front of us today, are very important for Serbia. I would like to point out that the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will support these laws in the voting day. We are aware of the fact that no country can develop economically, but also that it cannot have an independent political strategy unless it protects its sovereignty, its territorial integrity and its independence. How are we supposed to do that? We certainly got that answer today, which is by strengthening the Army. The government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a policy of peace. In order to lead such a policy, we need to modernise the Army, we need to modernise the equipment, modernise the weapons, especially the Air Force, which we talked about today. I would like to commend the Ministry of Defence and Minister Vulin for all that the Ministry of Defence has taken in the previous period, and regarding military education related to military health, the status and position of members of the Army in the previous period, to improve standards, above all, people. We had a chance to see that the salaries were raised, to solve the housing issue of members of the Army. All these newspapers carried out confirm that the ministry is doing a good job, that the military policy that started in 2012 continues and that Serbia will definitely remain on the same course, which is a course of military neutrality. The importance of military education is recognised. Education represents a pillar of strength in the sovereign armies. Maybe today I can't remember if we heard 300 million dinars were invested in the Military Academy, military academy infrastructure. The sports center and the shooting and the terrain were restored. In this way, cadets will be significantly easier both to school and to live and to work in the best conditions. In the first phase of reconstruction of military high school, 13 million dinars were invested. I don't have much time left, but in addition to the importance of investing in education, I would stress international co-operation. In this way, we make a great contribution to the reputation of the army in the world. It doesn't matter what anyone in the world thinks about us, and it doesn't matter if someone praises us. It's important that we send one message that passes through every speech today. Some people don't. By strengthening our army, we show that Serbia is sovereign, that Serbia is an independent country and that it will not change. Co-operation with different sides of the East and the West shows that we are military neutral. What counterpart Djukanovic said earlier was the importance of military neutrality as one of the most important political strategies in the coming period, and today it is also included in the law. By investing in the Army, we create a strong, strong, professional, combative, patriotic, independent and powerful army, and thus create a strong, strong, combative, independent, military neutral, and above all our Serbia. For this reason, I would also like to thank the Minister of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for implementing politics in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33826	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33827	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, respected fellow Members of Parliament, in the time I have available, I would like to refer only to a few aspects of the law, and I would like to mention, at the beginning, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on military, labour and material obligations. Here I would like to remind more of the citizens who see this as being aware that since January 2011 the reference to serving the military term in the Serbian Army has been done on the principle of volunteering, i.e. the obligation to serve the military and introduce military professionalisation, and since then, only those who wish to do so have served. The voluntary military service in our country takes six months. Each soldier pays 12,000 dinars for the first three months, the fourth month 15,000 and the fifth and sixth months 25,000. In this way, he wants to stimulate the best volunteers to stay in the army and become professional soldiers, and later, if they show up well, also the officers. Why am I saying all this? Namely, I ask the question – are professional soldiers, officers, officers and all other military employees satisfied with their incomes? Here we've heard that the officer's salary is about 60,000 dinars, and if we know that the consumer basket is about 64,000, 65,000 dinars, Mr. Minister, you're going to fix me for everything I say, if I say wrong, so if the basket is over 60,000 dinars, then that means they're making ends meet? In the last three years, according to some data that I have received, so I expect you to either confirm or correct, in the last three years, the military has left about 3,000 professionals. It's not just soldiers, it's all those who are employees of engineers and others who are employees of the Ministry of Defense. It's because of the profits, and besides that they have a problem solving housing problems, I see that some subsidies have been put forward in this law to solve housing problems. In fact, about 20,000, according to some data that I have, military pensioners and professional military personnel, have not solved the housing issue. A special category I want to look back on, and what I am particularly emphasising are about 4,400 former JNA military personnel from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, who have no solution to the issue of the apartment, and some 2,500 of them still live in collective housing. New Now is a real example of this problem because in several barracks living families of these people in impossible and completely inhumane conditions and it is absurd that they do not have refugee status and thus do not have the likely help to solve the issue of the apartment. I see that you ministers have been visiting the mayor of Novi Sad these days and that this topic has been discussed, so I expect from you that if you have answers when this problem will be solved to help. On the other hand, barracks and other facilities have been declared state property and as far as I know, they are in the jurisdiction of the Property Directorate. In some local self-governments, they have been replaced by apartments for military officials, but in most places it has not been done and these facilities fail, and on the other hand the housing problems of officers, i.e. military persons at all, are not solved. Some of them, these facilities can turn into extremely important tourist facilities, such as military facilities in the suburbs of the Petrovaradin Fortress that are now falling apart, and could be an exceptional tourist attraction within the entire Petrovaradin Fortress. There have been attempts in Novi Sad, and I see now in Belgrade that in one of the abandoned barracks it is able to get its activities. Some NGOs tried that, but the police threw them out, and these facilities were still not trained, nor did any of their issues be resolved. The same case occurred here in Belgrade when members of the military police threw out a group of NKK social centre activists who entered a similar military facility a few days ago in Belgrade. So I ask the question – for whom and how long are the objects kept, and when will these objects be resolved? In the amendments and additions to the Army Act, I would especially like to point out that, as a reason for the proposed changes and additions, it says that conditions are being created to ensure a more favourable position of professional members of the Serbian Army, especially professional soldiers, officers, officers and all others in the service of the Serbian Army, and there are two members, members of the 25th and members of the 26th. Article 26 states that the professional military person is entitled to the cost of eating during work and regress for the use of the annual rest when the conditions in the government's budget of the Republic of Serbia are obtained, which means that he may receive a warm meal and a regress, which may not, which I do not think, when it comes to wartime persons, should not remain this way, i.e. to remain unsaid and to be left unsaid and not be able to. It's simple, for them they have to find resources regardless of the circumstances. Namely, every government knows that there must be a satisfied soldier, a satisfied policeman, a doctor, a teacher. These are categories where they shouldn't be experimented in this way. In other cases, we see what it looks like. Article 26 relating to the salaries of professional soldiers in point 2 is said to be – the base for the calculation of salaries cannot be lower than 75% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia paid in the month in which the basis is established, and if this does not allow for the appropriations in the Republic of Serbia's salary budget, the government may establish a lower base in accordance with the appropriations. So again, the possibility remains that, in accordance with the possibilities, this base is reduced, which I still find inadmissible for military personnel to belong to that category where pay can be reduced in such a way. This means that nothing is practically guaranteed, and officers are asked to follow orders, pilots are asked to fly on suspicious correctness drones. The latest case of the death of an experienced pilot, Robert Calozzi, who was also a flight teacher. In my opinion, the answer and the truth about the technical regularity of the aircraft and other equipment should be given and how the equipment is ever maintained. Otherwise, to point out that this pilot was, according to my information, a tenant with my family and I'm asking a question – why are our pilots killed? This isn't the first case. You have said in the media that we have received four MiGs from Belarus, that there will be an increase in weapons, that we will receive helicopters and other weapons for our army and I simply ask such a woman a question – are we preparing for war and should I worry? You should bear in mind that the average age in Serbia is over 40 years, that we have less than 17% of children under 14 years of age, and out of the country are young and working people. How do you think you attract people to commit to military service? Amendments to the Law on Defence provide for the establishment of a fund to fund and improve the search and rescue of military aircraft and the development of the capabilities of the Serbian Army on this issue, and I ask the question – why is this fund being introduced? I just don't get it. The Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment allows for foreign investment in the area of production, arms and military equipment and that the production of weapons, which I particularly care about is a pair of ears, weapons and military equipment of strategic importance. Namely, I ask the question – why does this law allow a foreign investor to be a majority owner? On the other hand, I would be much happier and far happier if our knowledge and health were strategic goals, i.e. to invest in schools and hospitals, because I think people are important, not weapons. I'll just remind you that income, let's just say, from the IT sector maybe in the field of agricultural exports or maybe in the arms, I don't know exactly what the sums are, but here it turns out that investment in knowledge turned out to be a very lucrative principle. We MPs from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have given amendments, only with all our heart I hope that we will be able to even defend these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33828	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33829	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, the respected director of BIA, respected colleagues and colleagues, my colleagues from the Parliament club will talk about these other laws and the day the amendments come, and I will focus on the Law on military education. It is a very important law because it includes, as it stands, all forms of education, not only professional members of the Serbian Army but also civil servants, through military-school institutions and institutions of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. What is interesting, in Article 13 of this Law, is that the military higher education institutions are universities and universities, while Article 2 defines that the university in its composition can have accredited scientific and research organisations and libraries. It is important to point out that the university in its composition may have a higher education unit with or without legal personality properties, under the prescribed conditions and the very statute of a higher education institution. Also, the University of Defence is an independent higher education institution that performs high-level military education from several scientific areas within the framework of educational and scientific fields, in accordance with the Law on Higher Education. Why did I quote this, for the reason of mentioning the Law on Higher Education, and in relation to Article 22(2), it may be necessary to bear in mind, if there is a possibility, of creating new teaching bases on Serbia's territory, that is to say, the possibility that certain segments or directions of Serbia's higher education should be detected for example in Nis, because for such a thing, you probably know that there are spatial capacities, following objects and teaching cadre. An example of the Nis universities working in this way shows the University of Nis which has positive experience in teaching centres outside Nis, or departments of law and economic college in Medvedja and Zajecar. Other universities also have similar experiences, such as the Faculty of Economics from Subotica in Bujanovac. This is very important, in order to bring more young people from Kursumlje, Prokuplje, Vranja, Leskovec, Piroth, Književec, Aleksinac, Zaječar for education in this area, but it is also important for the south of Serbia, especially because of its geostrategic position. In any case, this law normably regulates and coordinates the specificities of military education, and thus completes the process of harmonisation of regulations, where military-school institutions have the opportunity to become an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33830	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33831	To thank again all the MPs who used to speak, so here's the thing. So, the average officer's salary is not 63,000, it was that big in 2012. Now it's 74 thousand dinars. Please take care of it and we've increased the logs from 800 dinars to 1,100 dinars. So it goes into total income. There are also increased housing costs for those who have not solved the housing issue, and for those who resolve the housing issue, the question through favourable loans by the military continues to receive increased costs, so that the military also reduces the war, which, you will admit, is something that you could only imagine in civil life that it is possible and it really isn't. We also have additions to a specific service, that's when you're a pilot, a specialist, etc., so that's what you get. You listed the numbers relating to the salaries of our soldiers for voluntary military service. To make you happy that for all members who voluntarily serve the military deadline, then for all of our cadets, for all our pies are also increased, by order of the commander-in-chief, receiving 10% of the 1st of March. So they've been increased in compensation, too. As you can see, wherever we can and whenever we can work to improve the standards of all our members, no matter what part of the army they're in. Also, we introduced something that was simply not possible for years, here, there are retired generals, so they know that it once was possible in JNA, and in the Serbian Army it is almost unremembered, and that is that we have introduced a daily food gift that has been received by the Cobra Special Police Battalion, but now it gets the Special Brigade and we hope, soon, we will have the budgetary opportunity to extend it to both members of the military police and to members of the reconnaissance units, which means a lot. It's a large number of people and it means a lot to our members when they get, simply, as if they've got money that they can spend in the cafeteria, whether for their diet, whether they're buying something that they need and their families. As far as housing and housing are concerned, that's why we've launched this huge activity about building apartments for members of security structures. You're right with numbers, a large number of our members have no settled housing issue, but this is how it's solved for the first time by JNA and the SFRY. It may be small, but it's important. Ask members of the First Brigade in Novi Sad when was the last time they got apartments? Now they get literally a decade later, now in Novi Sad some 14 apartments are divided. It's been a long time, but as soon as it can, we do. It's "Jugoviceva" barracks, which you said in a conversation with Mayor Vukevic. Soon we need to sign an agreement that determines how many apartments we get in Jugović's barracks, and the town of Novi Sad is starting to build for us, project, and build us a Mayur base. It's something that's also going to be a big deal. We haven't had a big new military facility in decades. You see, things change and they shrink for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33832	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. He's not here. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33833	Thank you. I am pleased to see you here in Parliament where we started in 2012 and thank God everything is going well and better and will be better. Today, there are two decisions on the use of our military and police forces in international forces in 11 countries. I am saying this simply to remind those who are following the transfer of the Assembly of what we will, in fact, discuss yesterday and today and in the coming days in this congregation. In addition, there are seven proposals on the agenda that promote our security system: the Bill on Military Education, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Production and Transport of Arms of Military Equipment, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Amendments to the International Operations, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on BIA. Also, there are four confirmations of the international agreement. But what I want and what I want to draw attention to in these proposals is, above all, an improvement in the living conditions of employees in our security structures. The fact is that we cannot escape, that the disintegration of Yugoslavia has brought troops and police to the brink of existence. Then when it was thought it couldn't be harder to get an army, it comes DOS and it can. It can be a lot harder. With DOS coming to power, at the posts of defence minister and federal minister of the MUP, the current and former DS leaders also exchanged. Well, we have Zoran Zivkovic, Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac, today leader of powerful opposition parties. Their time is the time of the complete destruction of the Serbian army and police. Let us only remember the various affairs of the mentioned gentlemen “pastnik”, “satellite”, “military”, “vinograd”, etc. During that period, the Serbian military and police were completely ruined financially and materially. But by coming to power of the SNS and Alexander Vukic, who, I will remind, was also the first defence minister in the first SNS government, this process was stopped and the Serbian army was put back on its good feet, which are three steps in 2012, when then military minister Aleksandar Vukic said – stop the collapse, start what can be launched, and then start to develop. After a long time, it is restored alongside equipment and weapons and the Military Housing Fund, and thus the motive for quality personnel to decide on military school and military call. I am pleased that in his address, the minister mentioned Kasar Jugoviceva, the Mayur base and I know very well how much Novi Sad provided his hand because the arm, the arm of the army, was provided on the other hand, to solve together all the problems that we can solve together. Here, you see, 14 apartments have already been divided, a complex is planned in Jugovic, and if good and accurate information comes to me, there is talk of enlargement and suburban settlements, which means that all of this confirms what I just said, we are putting the army on healthy feet. Being an officer at DOS time was humiliating. Today, Serbian soldiers and officers are again the pride of Serbia. For these reasons, gentlemen, in voting day, I will vote proudly for this set of bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33834	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33835	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Department of Defense, General Staff, BIA, fellow MPs, today we are discussing a set of military laws. Practically, these six laws round up everything that is related to the military, to the Ministry of Defense and to the defense. If I had seen another law here that I'm always particularly interested in, I'd say the whole job on these issues is done, and that's the Law on Fighters, the families of the dead fighters and the missing fighters. I hope that Mr. Minister with Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Affairs will make an effort not in this year, and that in the following year, finally after 27 years, the fighters will get their law, that the state of Serbia through some mention of medals or monuments will repay them, because all neighbouring countries have done so, and even the quasi state of Kosovo. Now, let's even have our fighters last, but it's time and time to do it. The first law is the Education Act. We had no major objections to this law, but still through a number of amendments we spoke and we made some suggestions regarding our university's co-operation with civilian higher education institutions. However, we have also made some remarks particularly in Article 18 on the introduction of some new terms, which is a term of management that appears in several attitudes. The tradition of our army and in the tradition of our army are three terms. It's a term of command, management and management. Here two terms are mentioned in the law, meaning commanding term, management term, and instead of handling term, a new term of management was introduced. I think we should still stick to our tradition and get this term of handling back into the law. One more thing, when it comes to higher education institutions and especially the Military Academy. Gentlemen, the Military Academy is a pillar of military education. It gives primary education, then second and third degrees. She was processed through Article 15 through only one sentence. I don't mind the VMA Military School. There would be a lot to discuss, but if it is already introduced into the system because there could be a university of defence, we have proposed an amendment to say through Article 15 that the Military Academy is a primary high school unit of special importance for the defence system. I think it's absolutely acceptable and that it's precisely through these changes that shows that the Military Academy is a pillar of military education. Furthermore, in Article 18, when it comes to higher education units within the university, it is said that there are higher educational fields, a quality assurance commission and a chamber parliament, and then they are said to have cathedrals as professional bodies. I don't know who that came up with, I can have this, absolutely by us, it has to be erased, because the cathedrals certainly must exist. Further changes are, which we have proposed, related to the abolition of higher education institutions, so we have made some additions to the archives of military institutions and their documentation, because primarily through this member of the law, we are talking about what with their material things, and I think it is also important or it is much more important what with documents and archives, or the determination of a legal successor who will be obliged to do so in certain situations, whether they are students, students, to provide them with certain documentation at their request. Gentlemen and especially the Rector of the university knows that in his time from the former republics there have been many demands towards the Military Academy of Ex-Students, i.e. pitomatists, to deliver their diplomas to them and that this has been done properly throughout this period. All these changes that we have requested and on which we have written amendments are not fundamental changes, but contribute to the better quality of this law, so we pray when we consider our amendments to keep that in mind. As far as the defense bill is concerned, we already have a major objection when it comes to Article 2. So, amendments to Item 2 where the new position 3 is added – that the government's Annual State of Defence Report is being discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly's competent committee. So, the congregation is bypassing, but the report is only being considered by the committee in charge. Gentlemen, I am a member of this committee, along with 16 other MPs. The Committee, according to the Rules of Procedure, has 11 responsibilities, formally performs and works only two responsibilities related to legal proposals and related to the report submitted by the Ministry of Defence to the National Assembly three months ago. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs of the Serbian Parliament is the only, remember, the only practical body of civil control of the military and the Ministry of Interior, or police. So these 17 people in the Assembly would have to know what the status of the military's operational capabilities is. Since the reports we've received from the Ministry, and I've had the opportunity to say so to the current minister, have not been improved, since we never get the status and assessment of the military's operational capabilities, since we never get a defence inspector's report, or how controlled units have been evaluated, gentlemen, so we can't, and we have nothing to determine what the status of the military is. What is now trying to move from the Assembly to the Committee is absolutely wrong and our position to delete Article 2 is precisely because of this, and the minister to work on what we asked him to do, to make the report more quality in two segments, to deliver to us through three months' reports the number of inspections, but also to assess those units. We even talked about whether some analyses should be or should be attended by members or individual members of the Committee. I don't know, maybe the chairman of this committee was invited to your annual analysis of operational abilities, but she didn't inform us as members of the Committee. After all, we are all equal here, and when we talk in the congregation and when we talk about legal proposals, we empower her that instead of all of us from the Committee, she can go out with our views. So, I just don't have any data on whether she attended that analysis. Next is Article 3. We also suggest that Article 3 be deleted, as this is only two words "notify" and "report". Don't you gentlemen protect the assembly and make her work easier. The congregation has to do what it does. According to the version of the previous law, it was about reporting, and according to this proposal, it was about notifying. This isn't just a game of words. The Lord of the army knows who reports, and who informs. Reporting is an obligation, and notifying is, I say, a far lower level and an optional, or possibility. As for Article 8 relating to Article 23, position 1, you gentlemen have given here, and that is good, that the Ministry has and keeps records of the deceased, missing, wounded, captured and murdered members of the Army. It's absolutely all right. However, it seems to me that this date is not right. When it comes to March 23, 2001, until June 30, 2001, I think the date should be October 13, 2000. This date that you've given here I think the date when the Yugoslav Army is authorized to enter the land's security zone. We've had the deaths of the officers before this date I brought to you here, but we've had the deaths and wounded of the soldiers before that. Therefore, we must keep track of the moment when the military has received tasks and orders to enter the land-based security zone, and certainly there should be no relevant date for us when KFOR has allowed us to address the situation in those sectors of A, B, C, etc. I think this should be done a little bit and seen if I'm right and that an adequate date can be found in the law. As for Article 21 relating to Article 76 and that new position 2, we absolutely support that associations operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which are heavily based in areas of importance for defence, that these associations are first named, that they are bound in a certain way to the budget of the Ministry and that they know what associations are of particular importance for defence. The education ministry should probably decide which associations are of special importance to them, but, let's say, the Association of Spare Military Officers, the Alliance of Radio Amateurs, Scouts, sports paratroopers clubs, etc., they are all bound in a certain way to the Army, they are the source of personnel, whether they are recruits or people who will serve the interests of defence or the Army of Serbia through some training. So they need to be separated from that large number of citizens' associations and, as such, named in the law or in the minister's decision, then given these minimum funds so that they can function. As far as the Military Act, Article 7 relating to Article 42, is on the one hand, gentlemen, it is a good thing that this border has moved to 53 years of professional soldiers, a suboffice officer, or an officer under contract. However, I would also like to say one note here, that perhaps it shouldn't have been done with professional soldiers because, gentlemen, if someone came to the military in 25 years as a professional soldier, he was up to 40 years old, as it was in law so far and as I think he should and should remain, he should still have been through the leadership courses that you have in the Army becoming an officer under contract. Thus, his service in the military would last until retirement, or until 53 years. If someone in 15 or 20 years doesn't make it or doesn't come, and the other thing is now your internal organization whether all quality soldiers under contract have a chance to go to the reception room and take admissions for that leadership course. Is there a problem here? I know that there are those who are from multiple times, who have repeatedly failed even to be accepted. Such gentlemen should not be allowed to be in the army for 53 years because they burden the army and its operational capabilities, because someone much younger and much more capable could come to their place. There are not so many formational places in the military that those who are not for combat units could be deployed. I'm not in that sense on the subject of a senior officer, an officer under contract, and I absolutely agree that it will be until 53 years, as you predicted in the law. Next, Article 9 relating to Article 47a of position 5 relating to the responsibilities of the military police for the purchase of arms, etc. I think it is also well resolved by law, but only this one position in the law that military police provide data to state authorities and other bodies, organisations and individuals. It is known who the state authorities are, and I don't know what would be the need at all, and what organizations they are, and why some people would be supplied with information about what kind of weapons and approvals were issued by the military police for the purchase of weapons to military persons. I think that it should also be considered that, in addition to the data supplied to the MUP and other state bodies, agencies, etc., natural persons are absolutely out of the question and that this should be deleted. Article 25, which speaks of regression and a warm meal. Gentlemen, this is quite all right, however, when it is said that something belongs then it is certainly necessary to delete this when the conditions of the Republic of Serbia's budget are obtained for such a fee. Either there's something, gentlemen, or there isn't, because if there's this possibility, then there's a possibility that it's never there. The minister is here to provide funds along with the government, because if it is said in the law that it belongs, then it should be ensured that it belongs. Also, Article 26, which speaks of salaries that the base cannot be less than 75% of the average salary, monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia from the previous month, and then goes also in the text – unless they allow the appropriations in the Republic of Serbia's budget, then it can be less. I'm saying that it can't stand like that, gentlemen, and that if it's said to be 75% then it's the government's task, the minister's task to provide it that way, because then it's always going to be this that there isn't. I was in the Army, and I know that the Army is an institution that's always been in those duties while I've been able to track those data, and it's never been able to get as much budget funding as it's been allocated to. It couldn't be taken from others, but it was always taken from the army. Gentlemen, as for Article 31, I think it's absolute, and it refers to Article 110, that it's an absolutely full hit, absolute support that people, our doctors, doctors, sciences in higher education institutions, institutes, are allowed to continue working for up to 65 years. We've lost a lot of personnel on VMA, we've lost a lot of personnel on both VTI and other institutions, and I absolutely support these people staying in the defense system, and I think it's an absolutely full hit. As for the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment, gentlemen, our biggest objections here are only in two things, which is foreign capital, i.e. privatisation and all our amendments are directed at that. Today, the minister also spoke here, when he said the amount of contracts concluded, when he said that we now have an absolutely good situation regarding our dedicated industry, because most of our weapons, ammunition factories, etc. has a few years in advance of selling production, and our Army is in today's conditions a very small buyer of one and the other, almost everything goes to export. In general, there is a question of the need for this foreign capital. You could say it's some kind of technology. Gentlemen, we didn't talk about VTI today but you would have to think about it in the ministry, because when we talked today and when Mr. Zivkovic, our colleague, said -- well, the yellow ones didn't destroy the dedicated industry, she barely survived that period. Only in one week during Boris Tadic's VTI, he lost 600 formations. And when you mutilate the military, or its technology-based institute, you mutilated the dedicated industry. You have to work to raise the VTI back to the level in this sense, you can't possibly be the one that used to be, but by deciding that science doctors can stay up to 65 years, the reception of young engineers can improve the situation in this area, so some of these sides, let's just say, investments won't be necessary. What does foreign investment mean? And even they're in 20% or 49%, certainly those partners would want to know where we sell the guns and probably couldn't sell where we're selling them right now. Every time we talk about foreign partners, I think of those who would come from the West. Next, as far as our dedicated industry is concerned, it received about 40m euros in last year, the minister said. For example, the flag of arms received 9m euros in equipment this year, 6m euros. She received a number of workers. I understand the minister that there can't be any exaggeration either, because what if tomorrow's situation in the world changes. Our dedicated industry by its capacity far exceeds our needs or needs of our army. Just because VTI is quite like an institution in previous years collapsed, the flag has its own product development and ultimately has its own technology development. As for the Law on the Use of the Army, we said this morning what our position was on. We are against it, especially against the EU-organised mission. When it comes to humanitarian missions, we have a different view. The last law is the Law of Military - Working and Material Obligation. Gentlemen, we have not written a single amendment to this law. We feel that the law is perfectly fine, that there may be members who are not covered, let me say, these supplements on which we would have objections. However, to what you have put through these supplements, we absolutely have no objections and we believe that this law has been done very well. If we should already say something, then perhaps from article 40 relating to Article 130, the last position should be thrown out, that family members should be eligible, or they may be punished from 10 to 40,000 dinars unless they report their member. I think it's inappropriate, but let's leave it at the end of the day because we said we were satisfied with this law and we didn't practically write any amendments on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33836	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33837	I thank General Delic for the really exhaustive presentation and for the energy he has invested in studying all these laws, so at least what I can answer, let me say, when it comes to the termology of work, and I agree, I prefer the Serbian words that sound like Serbian, but it's adapting to the Civil Law on Higher Education and it says there that management, it's simple harmonisation, is not up to us. As for the date you specified, we'll check it out. No soldier, no police officer who was killed, who died, must remain out of the state's protection because we date-relatedly regulated it. So we'll check and see if there's one, one victim we'll find a way to be on date or whatever, no one should lose their right because at that point, some date didn't fit. That's not an accident. That, thanks for that, we'll pay special attention. As far as delivering the Inspectorate General's report is concerned, it's not really legal. The General Inspectorate's report can only be obtained by the Secretary of Defense and the Commander-in-chief, no one else. So we can make it all together, but we can't do it individually, we just can't do it. As for the annual report on the state of defense preparations, it's, as you know, top-secret nature, and a session of the National Assembly can't be closed to the public, ever. She must always be open to the public. We can't close it, and especially if those who would listen to it would have to have a confidentiality certificate, it doesn't have every MP, it's just like that. We have to stick to it. And that such practice has already been established, I have to tell you since 2011, no annual report on the state of defence preparation has been discussed at the National Assembly meetings, but it has been on committees, and this is a perfectly acceptable solution, and besides, in 2014, the chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee has accepted this very solution. I think that, all parties are represented, all board members have appropriate certifications on keeping secrets and handling data, so we think that's just fine. At the end of the line, it's not a political matter. As far as VTI is concerned, we're giving him special attention. You're absolutely right, VTI is the brain of our industry. Without VTI, there's nothing. He's the one who's developing, he's the one that Serbia's defence industry draws new projects from, draws new ideas, draws on the new technology line. Amongst other things, that's why we've introduced royals in this law, so we've introduced VTI benefits, because so far the defense industry has used VTI patents, used VTI skills, and for that, it didn't have to pay him anything. Well, that's a way to strengthen it. We're also working out a rulebook, and hopefully we'll have the Ministry of Finance's support to specifically stimulate VTI engineers working on certain projects, because that's the only way to keep it safe. And this particular investment in Serbia's defence industry is a way to keep him working here, because you can't handle yourself on the market. Can you imagine the cost of an engineer designing a rocket? We'll never be able to pay. Never. This way when someone who's gonna have big money's interests to keep him here, maybe we'll keep him. This is not how we're gonna do it. Let's be realistic. We're not keeping him. You know, here's a cold thermal detector, a line for producing what's now a global hit, costing between 500 and a billion euros. Is that what we need? Yes, it is. Would it be really good if it was? I would. Are we gonna have that money? We won't. This way, maybe we can have him. We can bring technology. Technology is even much more primitive, not to mention now this is really now sophisticated, this is the world's top, but let's say the polymeric handle we don't have, which is why our gun is very expensive. That's why you make our gun out of a kilo of aluminum. You don't have a polymer handle for him. When you have that line, which someone needs to bring, someone needs to pay and you'll make it and it'll be much more competitive, it'll be much cheaper, etc. Just one example, and I'll just go back to this important item about extending time to the soldiers by contract. You see, when a decision has been made, a political decision, of course, as well as any on the introduction of a professional army. It was thought that a professional soldier would be up to his best years, up to 40 years of life when a man is somewhere in the highest physical strength and intellectual, etc. And after that, he won't need an army anymore, but the state will provide him with money for his severance, he'll make sure he can leave, start something of his own, and be stimulated in the end line to go and work those twenty years, sure he'll have significant money when he leaves. That money is never provided. And that's why it's a 40-year-old provision. We now have this soldier who may no longer be in the best physical condition, no longer at that level, but he can do some other duties in the military, especially for specific occupations that you can't find in the labour market, you need to train him for a long period of time, not that we now have much wealthier countries, or much more developed armies that have no obligation to serve the military deadline, do not have some unlimited reservoir of young people you can immediately put into office. There isn't. You have to work with what he's got and then you have to stimulate that soldier to get into the army when he's 20 years old and say, well, at least I'll stay until I retire. On the other hand, as you know perfectly well, we don't have that number of formation places for all the officers, not every one of them can become an army officer, for those who don't know, it's not possible to get a higher rank or promotion unless there's a vacant place for you with that act, otherwise you'd have, you don't know, thousands of guides who don't have a platoon, who don't have what they can do, they don't have a place to work. So there's the problem. Now, that's why we've been fighting this dilemma, it's nothing new to us, but that's why we introduced this to extend the contract for three years to always be the one who deserves it. So you're not going to say right away – you're staying up to 53 years, but every three years, which is longer than what the Labour Act requires, for three years you're going to basically check out that man and stimulate him to always be as good as possible to stay until the end. We'll try to find space for him and space for his work. Indeed, once again to go back to VTI, we're working on this regulation that is very important and we really expect support, and we need to get that support not only from the Ministry of Finance, but from the entire government and the whole society, it's been abandoned for decades, the engineers are leaving, and now we have to keep them and get them back. Now we expect reception, I don't mean to be rude, but how many years have we not received such a number of engineers, 10 or 12 years we haven't received that number of engineers, we expect to receive 70 new engineers, that's for us, the general says we haven't received them since we fired them. It's 70 young engineers and it's going to be a rescue for VTI, it's going to be a big change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33838	Right to the replica of the people sent by Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33839	Mr. Minister, let's explain what happened when I mentioned the ground security zone. This date I'm talking about, I've only seen dates for soldiers. That date, if taken into account, the police, are not responding, because then it's a few months before that. As for the Inspectorate's report, we're not looking for the Inspectorate's report, but in your report, when you say that the Inspectorate has done, say, 25 regular inspections, five extraordinary etc., it's important for our work to say - units and, or come on, it would be important, and I guess that the Committee may know that, but that we know how many units are assessed by what assessment. Because how do we conclude? I'm looking at a report that says - 24 regular inspections, 18 returns. The gentlemen in uniform know what return inspection means. Then I should conclude from that that they, all those 18, were some estimates that weren't good, that a deadline was given to remove weakness and that it was then a feedback inspection. We, the 17 of us here who, I think in front of this Assembly, and also in front of our people, are the only ones, to say the representatives of that civilian military control, and we don't know anything about what the situation in the military is, and we can only find out through those two elements, through the assessment of the operational abilities and through the evaluations of the inspectorates. We don't need details of the inspectorate, but estimates during this three-month period, how good, how negative, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33840	The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33841	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments and additions to the BIA Act are necessary to overcome the situation in which the Law on the Police is inapplicable with regard to the reception of new employees and the filling of systematicised jobs and the emptying of staff, the deployment of new jobs to existing members and career advancements. All these issues have an impact on adequate management of staff policy and the exercise of labour rights. If these institutes are not regulated in a legally valid manner, the consequences can be very negative when we talk about the Agency, whose task is to protect national security, and then the consequences can also be harmful to the safety of all of us. That's why passing this law is very important. The name of Mr. Bratislava Gasic is being placed in the position of BIA director just because he comes from the SNS at least is hypocritical. Bratislava Gasic has frozen his party functions, and speaking of which, let's remind that some BIA directors have been here since 2002, for example. to mention that the director was Rade Bulatovic, a senior official of the DSS, and then Sasa Vukadinovic, a member of the DS board. Thus, I repeat, it is hypocritical to connect SNS and Bratislava Gasic. One of the biggest hypocrites to challenge the Agency's signature on solutions to the working-law status of candidates for work in the Agency has put his signature on such solutions. Then we see here a solution where we have the signing of the Agency's director, Mr Savic, but it is interesting on the other hand that we have the signature of the Federal Interior Ministry and Minister Zivkovic, and then we talk about hypocrisy. As the chairman of the Security Control Committee, I am responsible for saying that the appointment of Mr. Bratislava Gasic as director of the Agency, who was also a military minister, and understands the problems within the system, gave the necessary quality within the security sector and in our supervisory visits made it clear that co-operation and coordination within the security sector is never better and that at this sensitive moment, when security threats are more than present everywhere in Europe, and we can be sure that the Agency will respond to all the challenges and protect the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Quality changes within the Agency and improvement of material and technical conditions and not to speak, are spoken of by members of the Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to refer to individual members of the amendment and addition of the BIA Act, where Article 1 is amended and Article 7 of the basic law is more precisely defined by the contents of the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of posts in the Agency. It is prescribed that the Agency’s Internal Organisation and Systematization Act shall be adopted by the Director of the Agency, with prior consent from the Government and that the information contained in this act is classified, which shall be determined in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act. Namely, the Agency, although having specific status and performing specific tasks, has the status of a special organisation and legal personality under the law. It is therefore required to implement the Law on State Administration, which in Articles 43, paragraphs 2 and 3 defines the Act on Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs and a special organisation, where the Director brings it, and it cannot enter into force until the Government gives its consent. This amendment provided the government's control function over the security service. Article 1 BIA law is prescribed to be educated as a special organisation, while Article 35. The State Administration Act is prescribed – by a special organisation run by a director who is responsible for his work to the Government. Article 44. The State Administration Act is prescribed that the Head of State Administration may issue directives laying down the way of work, conduct and behaviour of employees in the Authority of the State Administration. All these powers are given to directors of various government offices, e.g. Offices for Human and Minority Rights, Offices for Co-operation with Civil Society, etc. That's why these attempts to degrade the BIA director and the BIA themselves by my colleagues are a little scary. Is it possible that only for the sake of political points is someone able to play this way with an institution that performs matters relating to the protection of the national security of the Republic of Serbia? Of course, the systematization is confidential and that every serious service of this type in the world connects it to some services on their websites having organisational schemes is true, so we also have that on the BIA site, but nowhere do you have the number of people per individual organisational units, which is logical, because details and data on the organization are in the methodology of service work, and the methodology of intelligence work is a secret. Let's be realistic, so in all countries, information relating to national security is classified. Article 2 of the proposed amendment deletes the position of Article 1 of the 20th basic law, as the subsequent proposed provisions specify this referring norm to the Police Act, which concerns the rights, responsibilities and responsibilities on the basis of the working relationship of members of the Agency. Also, in Article 20a, the consequence of the changes made by the new Police Act to the reputation of the rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of the employment relationship. In this article, the provisions of the BIA Act are adapted to the Law on police matters relating to the categorisation of members in relation to the tasks they carry out and the categorisation of employees by type of jobs they carry out and foresaw three categories of employees – authorised officials, persons on certain duties and persons without authority. The provisions of Article 20b are also the result of newspapers passed by the Police Act. The very nature of the business that the BIA is responsible for assumes is not always possible for every job and public competition. In fact, the Law on Police predicted that the government was closer to organising a way to conduct a competition to fill jobs in the MUP. The government did so by adopting a regulation implementing a public competition in the MUP. Because we see that the advertising on job filling contests lists the data – the internal organisation bodies in the unit, the organisation units, the place of work, the workplace, the workplace, the job number, the working conditions, the titles and skills that are assessed in the electoral process and the way they are checked. Also, if any fellow MP thinks that any security service should publish job ads in this way and with this much information and information, then obviously someone doesn't understand the nature of security services. If you carefully read this position, he says – filling the Agency's jobs is not a mandatory competition. It is not mandatory, so it will not necessarily be for jobs for which it is possible to implement or to implement this contest in another, more appropriate way that no data on its work and members should be compromised for which they should remain confidential. Provisions on the optionalness of the BIA employment competition do not mean the termination of the competition. The Agency is also left with this possibility for specific jobs to protect the security-sensitive data on vacancy and the profiles of the necessary personnel. The position of Article 2 of Article 20b provides for the Director to decide on the establishment of a working relationship with the Agency. At the very beginning of the polemics on the means of information, the provisions concerning the employment of the BIA and the authority of the directors were instigated. The proposed amendments determine that the Director decides to decide on a working relationship, which in fact defines only a legal act establishing a working relationship and a member of the BIA deploys to an appropriate workplace, which does not mean that the procedure for the reception of new workers has been changed, or that a new member may be employed without prior security checks and if he does not meet the other conditions laid down for the place of work to be deployed. This provision only defines the legal act. We now come to Article 20v, where we had the expert opinion of the candidate for vice-president of the DS, which sets out the procedure for security verification in the event of a working relationship in the Agency, in the event of the return of an employee to work on the basis of the judicial decision of the competent authority. Article 1 provides that the Agency shall decide in the case of a judicial decision of the competent authority to which the person is returned to work in the Agency. It has the right to carry out a security check procedure for that person in order to determine the existence of security disturbances that pose a real and unacceptable security risk. A provision governing the return to work, on the basis of judicial decisions and the procedure for security checks, should be implemented in cases of return to work, i.e. the continuation of work in the Agency. In particular, certain systematicised work at the Agency site is enjoyed by a special safeguard regime, which is part of the application of the general measures for the protection of classified information in the possession of the Agency, and in accordance with the law governing the protection of classified information and regulations adopted under this law. In the case of judicial judgments, the Agency must take into account the flow of time from the time of termination of the working relationship of its members until a final decision is taken to return the person to work, as well as the possibility that the circumstances in the life of the person who continues to work in the Agency have changed. In some cases, certain circumstances could be the basis for doubting its confidentiality and reliability, especially if its activities are in conflict with the interests of the Republic of Serbia or if it is linked to foreign persons who can endanger the security and international interests of the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore necessary to carry out the security checks procedure for persons continuing to work in the Agency. This provision should be introduced into the text of the law in order to establish clearly in cases where it is necessary to carry out the security verification procedure. Here, the BIA does not put above the court or the law for any moment, but the court in the proceedings determines the legality of action at one time in the past. The flow of time here is crucial and imagine a practical situation in which the court, after a few years, has ruled that a particular person is returning to work at the Agency, and that the Agency should return it without prior security checks, without verifying what was going on in those few years, as far as that person did not work in the Agency. In my opinion, not only is this inconceivable, but also inadmissible, this could seriously endanger the Agency's work and the security of the Republic of Serbia. We could comment on some other members and see how necessary it is for these changes to be incorporated into the amendments and additions to the BIA Act, but now for the sake of time, we're going to leave it in tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33842	The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33843	Based on Article 104, Mr. Arsic, at least you, as chairman, should have reacted. Article 104 clearly defines that we should treat one another with full respect. This applies to members of the Government, as well as officials of the highest-ranking state, as is the director of the BIA Agency. Here we talk about the law, as they said about the BIA and said, now I have heard one of the insults, by my insult, that it is hypocritical to connect Gasic with the SNS. Please, you should have acted as chairman. It is unclear whether Gasic is a member of the SNS or not. Is Gasic here representing, not only the BIA director, but the SNS personnel solution? When it was said that hypocrisy connected him to SNS, at least you should have reacted. Now explain to you, Mr Arsic, whether Gasic is still a member of the SNS or whether he is hypocritical to continue to connect him with that party, or perhaps you understood differently that connotation brought out by a fellow MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33844	Comrade Mircic, I really can't see where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is here. It has absolutely nothing to do with breaking the Rules of Procedure. Milorad Mircic throws. ) What you have to ask questions, ask the legislator, set up a fellow MP, you can make it public, but what does that have to do with the Rules of Procedure? Milorad Mircic: How is it gone? There's nothing. The word is made by MP Igor Becic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33845	At this point, the public is deceived and they twist the words that I have spoken. I just said that Mr. Gasic's calling... (Miss Radeta: What member? · Global Voices )......................................................................................................... only because he is a member of the SNS and that Mr. Gasic has frozen his party functions. The only flaw here that is burdened Mr. Gasic is because he was a senior SNS official, and now no one can speak how he and how he professionally performs his job as BIA director. I thank you and do not ask the Assembly to plead. (Miss Radeta: Which member did you talk to?) ) Article 107. - The dignity of the National Assembly, if you don't know, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33846	Comrade Becic, would you like the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (No) The word of the People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33847	Mr. Arsic, you obviously want to lead this assembly by acting selectively... (Alexander Markovic: Which member? ) Member of the SNS. That's the member I'm answering for. I'm using some logic stuff. If he could've done it before, which would've made me different. A member of the SNS. What's very important is, when you give a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, you must have the same archaic towards all. You just let an MP speak without being cited by a member. In the end, he remembered it was 107, a violation of dignity, and that's what he said to the top lawyer Verica Radetti, she doesn't know that. Imagine what it's like. We're almost done with today's work, as far as I can tell, just focus. I didn't ask you if you saw the violation of Rule 104's Rules of Procedure, but to clarify the situation about Mr. Gasic. I asked that, and your vision, it may be the subject of the interest of some other professions or some other faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33848	Comrade Mircic, I must answer you. I let my colleague Becic go, just like you. So, you have called in a previous statement at the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that was a 104th member – if the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP. It's a straight line to the replica. That part you were talking about refers to article 107, and you didn't mention it once, so I let you go. At the end of his presentation, counterpart Becic said which member he thought the breach of the Rules of Procedure was related. I was expecting you to move on to Article 104... (Milorad Mircic: Member of the SNS. ) This article does not exist in the Rules of Procedure. Milorad Mircic: How does it not exist? ) There are many of them in the Serbian Parliament, but there is no such thing as the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33849	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm advertising an article. 27 and 32. I expected you to react from the presidency a moment ago because in the harshest way, speaker Igor Becic from the bench, who was not allowed, threw Radeti to her, addressing her with the words "that member, ma'am". First of all, she is no "mother" to him, but a lawyer with excellent legal experience, vice president of the National Assembly, unlike him who called the Italian president "mortadela", who speaks of us talking here about some law, that someone is "becoming," because we're talking about BIA law, etc., you've been listening to all these nebuloses, that a man can't read what he wrote, as well as say that for eight years I was then the only representative of the less represented gender in the Defence and Security Committee and that when these yellows were harassing and doing what they wanted. The witness is also Mr Panic, who is the only professional, persistent, for decades at the agency or the State Security Service. At the time, I couldn't believe that, when the weather was worst, both under that Vukadinovic and under Tadic's regime and before that, the mafia regime of Djindjic would come to the post of Committee President... (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like? Come on, you shut up, don't throw away, I'm talking, answer the word. And you put in order. So someone who can't read first, let alone speak... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33850	My colleague Jovanovic, don't say that. I can't let you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since this goes beyond certain limits. (Natasa Jovanovic throws out of place. To say to a colleague that he is illiterate, don’t say that, is out of the question. Mr. Milojich, on what basis did you seek the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33851	Replica, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33852	Based on what?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33853	You know on what basis, based on the mention of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33854	In any part of it, your colleague Becic didn't mention you in the negative. (Igor Becic: I didn't mention you.) The SNS are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33855	It does matter, you could learn the Rules of Procedure, since I'm authorized, for example. You mentioned it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33856	He mentioned it, I heard him mention it, but he didn't say anything bad about the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33857	And how do you know if it's bad or not what... what you're letting radicals do, say things. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33858	We're moving on. You have no right. (Radoslav Milojic: I am right, he mentioned the Democratic Party. Let me read it to you, Mr. Milojić, let's finish that too. This is Article 104: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group,” means that the condition is not met, “i.e. that condition is not fulfilled,” “or misread his exposure,” you did not have any exposure, “the national MP to whom the exposure relates has the right to replication. ” So attitude one doesn't live up to it. Is he all right? "If offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group," now tell me what was offensive what he said -- candidate for Democratic Party Vice President. Come on, tell me what's offensive?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33859	Turn on my mic. Mr. Arsic, the DS has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33860	What's offensive about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33861	As an authorised representative, I have the right to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33862	You have no right. Nothing was offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33863	You're trying to deny a word to the MPs of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33864	No one's trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33865	Are you trying to protect Mr. Gasic, who is now here? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33866	Mr. Milojicic, no one is trying to take away your right to a word, but you are abusers of the Rules of Procedure. So there was no name, no last name, no function, no partial function, no name. (Radoslav Milojic): As Martinovic called us fascists, why don't you give him a warning? A fellow Milojičić, he said, if you want so much, you can hook up with some and go to Baybok. He didn't call you Ustashas, with Ustashas specifically, but he didn't call you Ustashas. Let's finish that part of the story. You can't do that. (Alexandra Jerkov: he called me. I didn't hear. (Alexandra Jerkov: Listen. I hear great. My colleagues, Radeta, sign in, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33867	It is true that these are abusers of the Rules of Procedure there, but you, Mr. Arsic, should use it and take care of each member, especially Article 27. (President: For a moment, she is a colleague of Natasa Jovanovic... ( b) Article 2 I'm talking about attitude two. (President: A more precise provision. ) Please, that member has two attitudes. The Lords who do not know how to interpret the regulations should be educated a little, and in that sense let them not gain. Of course, I don't mind throwing it away, because I can't be distracted, but it's a shame they don't know such basic things. They have to learn a little bit. They have at least two lawyers in this area who could teach them. Just before, Natasa Jovanovic did not say Igor Becic was illiterate. If he can't read what's written to him, that means he's functionally illiterate. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33868	My colleagues of Radeta, I can't, it crosses every line. I'm just going to finish my sentence. Don't finish your sentence. This is already going to offend fellow MPs. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. He's not here. The word has been made by the People's MP, the Vladan Zagradian.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33869	Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers with co-workers, respected BIA directors, Mr. Gasic with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we are facing today a set of laws from the defence and security sector, whose changes should contribute to better functioning of Serbia's Army as the greatest defence factor, as well as its even better positioning at international level through the continued participation of our forces in international multilateral operations. Today we are also discussing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Act, which I will look back on in my discussion. BIA is a special organisation that was granted legal personality status by the BIA Act 2002 and was then singled out as an independent government agency from the National Security Office of the Ministry of Interior. BIA as one of the three organisations defined by the Law on Fundamentals of Security Services of the Republic of Serbia and engaged in security-intelligence affairs is the central security intelligence service, responsible for both intelligence and counterintelligence affairs and in its work, are the most sensitive jobs concerning the protection of the national security of the Republic of Serbia. These tasks relate to the detection and prevention of activities aimed at undermining or destroying the Constitution of the established order of the Republic of Serbia, research, collection, processing and evaluation of security-intelligence information and knowledge of the importance of security and information of the competent national authorities on such data. In the focus of operational engagement, BIA is also a hidden activity of a foreign factor, directed against vital national interests, organised crime that threatens the economic system of the state, but also an unstable region that is unfortunately suitable for the development of different types of terrorism, the separatism of religious and ethical extremism. In today's time of major changes and security risks, challenges, the efficient work of all institutions that are in the security system, as well as their mutual co-operation, is vital to the protection of the state and national security. In co-operation with other BIA security institutions, she has successfully fought all security threats so far. Our country's citizens can move freely, visit public gatherings peacefully, while much more serious states with larger and richer services in the world, unfortunately, do not make it possible for their citizens to do so. The BIA is working in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Its activities are in strict legal frameworks, with respect for the principle of human rights and fundamental freedoms of secrecy, subordination of professionality and objectivity. It defines the BIA Act, but also the Security Service Foundation Act, the Data Securitisation Act, the Personal Data Protection Act, the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matter and a number of other laws, a number of regulations and a ratified international convention. So BIA is working in a transparent manner to the extent that it does not endanger its work, which is also said by the fact that BIA has been zealously responding to almost all the requirements for gathering information of public importance, as can be seen in the report i.e. BIA's work informant. These changes more precisely define the powers of the Agency's director, as well as the employment status of BIA employees, which is in fact to bring the Police Law into line with the Public Sector Payments System Act. In particular, the changes concern the establishment of a working relationship, calling, progress, temporary and permanent deployment to certain jobs, wages and coefficients, as well as the evaluation of work by BIA members on clear criteria. Also, the Institute of Security Checks is being introduced when a working relationship is established, continuing to scratch the Agency's ability to work only on professional, moral and honorable people. An organisation such as BIA is specific to other bodies, and therefore requires the definition of specific procedures, legal norms when it comes to the employment status of employees in this service. The government of the Republic of Serbia agrees on certain acts, such as the Act on Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs, as well as the acts relating to the conditions for obtaining and losing calling and the coefficients of salaries of BIA members. I note this for the reason why it should be pointed out that the BIA as part of the state administration and as a special organisation is directly controlled by the Government when it comes to its work under the Law on Government and the Law on State Administration. Also, parliament is an institution that provides to the greatest extent the democratic character of security intelligence control. So BIA has the obligation to submit regular reports to the Joint Committee on Security Control. The work of the BIA is also under the control of the courts, but also of the entire public. I'm saying this in favor of the fact that there are no elements to insinuate the intention to privatise this service which we have had the opportunity to hear from different opposition representatives and one part of the public. The provision that caused the largest controversy in the public, but also criticism of the opposition, which could be heard in today's debate, is a provision that predicts that filling the jobs of the Agency for certain jobs is not necessarily a competition. This provision is primarily for security reasons prescribed in this way, because we all need to be aware that the work of BIA is extremely risky, especially because of the specificity of the powers that BIA members have. It's a real need to make the law this way, those who work on the most sensitive state affairs, but also their families, protection. Another fact that most critics are not familiar with is that all modern security and intelligence systems in both the region and the world are just arranged in this way when it comes to employment in certain jobs in intelligence services. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the BIA Act contribute to strengthening the integrity and creation of the functional structure of this part of the security system, which is another step towards further development and modernisation of the security-intelligence sector. In this way, Serbia certainly strengthens its position as a significant factor of stability in the region and a reliable partner in international relations through integration into the European and global security system. Finally, given that the BIA as a significant part of the overall security sector participates in drawing up a new document of the national strategy, the security of the Republic of Serbia, I am taking the opportunity to point out that the Socialist Party of Serbia believes that individual views and strategic objectives from the current security strategy should be maintained. First of all, I am referring to the military neutrality of our country, but also to the issue of Kosovo that should continue to be treated in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which is also under the current strategy, as a unilaterally self-proclaimed state, is the biggest security threat to the Republic of Serbia but also to the whole region. The issue of protection of national interests in the southern Serbian province should unequivocally be one of the priority strategic definitions of the Republic of Serbia. For all of these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the adoption of both this and all other proposed laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33870	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33871	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, finally on the agenda, we have a long-awaited set of laws from the defence and security sector, which has been submitted to us by the Serbian government and which has been causing public interest for a long time, I can say especially that part of the public who is directly or indirectly interested in new legal solutions in this area. I'll look back in my discussion on just some draft laws. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, which the Serbian government has provided us with with with the aim of more effective management and ensuring effective functioning of the Serbian Army, among other things, to specify what classified data created in the work of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army, consider secret information that would damage the national security of the Republic of Serbia by jeopardising the country's defence and security system or jeopardising the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army. I believe this is a very important newspaper which prevents secret information from being made available to unauthorized persons and to the public, not preventing them from being delivered to the competent authorities in accordance with the law and in the legal procedure. In addition, newspapers are predicted to keep the government's annual defence prepared report, instead of adopting it at the National Assembly of Serbia plenary session, in the future, I consider it to be the right solution to the meetings of the relevant assembly committee, whose members and deputies hold a security certificate, and given that it is a top secret document. Also, one of the papers in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, which I find very important and which I welcome is to allow the establishment of a budget fund for the purpose of providing funds for the financing of the functioning and promotion of the Service for the Search and Rescue of Military Aircrafts. As a former member, a professional member of the military and as a direct participant in the country's defence of NATO aggression against the SRJ, I am aware of the importance of improving our Service for the Search and Rescue of Military Airships and the permanent development of Serbia's military capabilities in this matter. No pilot, or any other member of the Air Force crew, or persons transported to military aircraft must in the future remain on their own and fates and must be confident and confident that the Serbian Army will take all the measures, actions and procedures available to it in order to locate, find and rescue military aircraft in war and peace. I also consider a good solution to the introduction of opportunities for associations that technically base their activities on areas of importance for defence, allowing for the acquisition of the status of the association of special importance for defence, since this contributes to the strengthening and survival of such associations, and because their functioning, programmes, organisation and massification are certainly a function of strengthening the defence system in a broader sense. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Army, which the government has submitted to us, removes the observed legal gaps and inaccuracies in individual solutions, provides a more favourable position for professional soldiers, officers and officers, while at the same time allowing for more effective handling and functioning of Serbia's Army. I'd like to make a few very significant changes, although the whole bill is very good. For example, the solution that during the war and emergency, the military can also be filled with material resources that the owners of these funds, domestic or foreign citizens, make available to enable the improvement of the completeness in order to better carry out the touching tasks by units and institutions in the war or in a state of emergency. Then, there are very good solutions that allow for the first time members of the military police as authorized officials to apply police measures and actions, which is in line with the legal solutions and provisions of the new Police Act. Furthermore, the law creates greater opportunities for professional members of the Serbian Army to engage in the structures of international organisations and regional initiatives, which in my opinion is an excellent solution in conditions where Serbia is in the process of European integration and when it seeks greater international military co-operation, with the preservation of its own military neutrality. Furthermore, this bill pays, fees and other financial receipts of professional soldiers, military personnel, comply with the provisions of the laws governing public sector wages, better regulate and specify vacations and absences, and the length of working time in individual formations with the adverse impact of working conditions on health and the ability of a person who performs such a duty will assess the medical work of a competent military health institution. As one of the major newspapers in this bill, I also set out the introduction of a part of the cost of resolving the housing issue of beneficiaries of the subsidized housing loan, along with the other measures announced by the Serbian government on housing construction and housing of members of the Security Sector give hope and members of the so-called "Secret". military homeless people and many members of their families who were not cared about by some previous furniture authorities. At the end of my presentation and this opportunity to point out that we of the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, are committed to a comprehensive strengthening of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia, and that the Serbian Army must always be a strong deterrent factor for anyone who would try to commit aggression on our country. We advocate that we are always able to safeguard peace and stability in Serbia with sound politics and that the Serbian Army will never be used, but that this same army must be ready at all times to use and carry out its dedicated tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33872	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Torbica, two minutes and 16 seconds of your parliamentary group's remaining time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33873	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, BIA directors, fellow MPs, I will, in my presentation, because I don't have much time, still have to go back a little bit and say that after 2000, we have been successfully opposed to criminal NATO aggression, we have brought the military to civil-type organisation and at least to the armed force that successfully participated in the defence of the country. During the ministry of past ministers, a good part of the arms arsenal was destroyed, without the new weapons being refurbished with modern and combat systems. What we have to point out is that individuals boasted of professionalizing the military but did not want to say that there was no consideration of what would happen to the soldiers when they turned 42 and were so on the street without any rights and no real possibility of a new professional orientation. We are now witnessing that the current republican government and the Ministry are taking care of them and wants to change the atmosphere and wants to give these people the opportunity to remain in the army. It would be very good if citizens could find out how much Serbia sold and how much money and what countries that tanks such hoods and other weapons, because in 2012 when there was a change of government in Serbia, only one Mig-29 flew in Serbia, one plane flew at the time, and soon not two or three times more will fly over Serbia, flying 15 times more planes than it was during the dosing regime. What we need to say and what is extremely important is that the Serbian Army bought six new Erbas helicopters as well as new Mig-17 helicopters, and soon we will hope to buy Mig-35 helicopters. So far, in the previous part of the session, we have talked about how embarrassing the situation was in terms of filling with sets of winter and summer uniforms of the Serbian Army, but what matters most is that the situation in the Serbian Army is changing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-25-0.u33874	Thanks, buddy. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. He's not here. We'd end this with today's debate. We continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, and the next reported for discussion is MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
