ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32572	We continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 106 MPs are present in the hall. Gordana Comic, Maja Vidinovic and Dr Dragan Vesovic informed me that they were prevented from attending today's session. We're continuing our work. We move to the search in detail on the first item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE PLANE SYSTEM OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA According to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been called upon to attend the meetings of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Zoran Djordjevic and their co-workers from the ministries. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Amendment Law, a Member of the Verica Radeta submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32573	We have submitted a number of amendments to the title to draw attention to how bad this is what the government has proposed, what kind of a proposal as well as a title. You have tried here to make this bill a science, something like that never existed in the country of Serbia, and we now have everything that is envisaged here and much more and much better and much more concretely regulated by positive legislation. The problem is they don't apply. The problem is that the plans don't apply, the problem is that the laws are being misused, the problem is that your bad personnel are on a local level that should apply these laws. You received a warrant, signed this bill to explain to us what some public policies are, etc., so Minister Djordjevic, when we discussed this in principle, tried to explain it to the MP. I followed, I wasn't here, you've read what's written here from word to word. So you don't know why this is supposed to be regulated this way, and we're telling you that nothing new in this area will be done under this new law. You said quite nicely that you were passing the law because of these chapters of yours, as you said in the end that the application of this law does not require additional financial resources, since the activities that need to be implemented in accordance with the proposed legal solutions are part of the regular functioning of the public administration. So there's public administration, there's regulations, try to secure good, educated personnel, throw out those who bought diplomas, so they've made a mess of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32574	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32575	We have submitted an amendment to the title above the members of this law completely unnecessary. If this bill had come to, Mr Stefanovic, at the time of the rule of Mladjan Dinkic, who had devised various masters, action plans and other plans, we might have understood, but now, at this time, to translate, in an unconscious way, which we tried to explain in principle, Minister Djordjevic, a law that absolutely does not have any purpose or purpose besides the Law on Public Administration, in addition to the Law on State Administration, in addition to all the existing positive laws, this is absolutely pointless. We will continue, through the amendments, to point out that all of this you have copied and translated into the process of harmonising Serbia's legislation, which is completely wrong, with EU legislation is not good, and it is also not applicable. When you look at this law, it can't be applied. Certain planning systems can be applied for individual resolutions and individual areas, and the law itself does not mean anything. Because of the public and because the minister did not want to understand it, nor to answer it, I think of Minister Djordjevic, again I will remind myself that this all came as a novelty, but taken over from the US political system, because a certain Howard Levison had been educated in America since 1958. the public policy system and you have now introduced it into Serbian legislation, which is completely pointless, as is the whole of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32576	The title of the amendment bill was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, my opinion differs slightly from my colleagues from the SRS. I think this bill is a star among the laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, because if it wasn't our legal system with its legal regulations, it would be hollow as cheese. I made a little joke about this, gentlemen of the Ministers, to give you room to continue to get involved like a chicken in a house, because you did it in a debate in principle when there was a bill of this and other law. I suggested the amendment to delete the term "Serbia" in the bill, because Serbia needs to be loved, Serbia needs to be nurtured, but in this legislative proposal it is completely pointless. We have here, in this session, many laws that are not more important than this law, but have complete meaning. They have been existing in Serbia's legal system for many years, but they do not have the term "Serbia". The law of foreign exchange is not Serbia, I guess if we bring it here we know that it is applied in Serbia, the Accounting Act, and that I do not list further, the Revision Act and other legal regulations are simply the name of the law without this – the law of the Republic of Serbia. You, in an explanation why you do not accept the amendment, say it is not accepted because it essentially does not contribute to the promotion of the bill, and it essentially does not repay it. Indeed, although you have defined yourself to pass a law like this, this is completely excessive to you, although we do not see any need for such a law. There's no new quality, there's nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32578	On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32579	This is the law we discussed in the principle debate, which takes effect in 2021. Over the next three years, there will continue to be a uniformity of the authorities at the local, regional and republican level and there will be no interference with the logic of the matter to implement all the plans brought by the Republic government and ultimately to supervise all the finances. We believe that the title of this law should be adapted to our mother tongue, so instead of – this bill on the planning system, we suggest that the title of the law be put in place – a bill on planning. Namely, what's the point here? The point here is that for many years now, EU laws have been prescribed in Serbia, and there is nowhere to translate an adequate English term, so we are witnessing a great deal of embarrassment and shame depending on how much you from the ruling party understand. In any case, it will one day be a subject of disdain, if someone is smart enough to list how and in any way, they prescribed and foreshadowed laws in front of this congregation. What's very, very important is that this law, as you said, is part of the overall fight against terrorism and money laundering. First of all, this second part of money laundering, we don't see why you can't now, as the ruling political set to prevent such illegal acts, do you absolutely control all these local criminals, you absolutely have insight into everything that these people at the country level are doing, without talking about what's going on at the republican level.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32580	Thank you. Alexander Seselj submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (no) The amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic to the title of the Bill of Law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32581	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, as well as my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft bill on the planning system. We tried to remove our proposals from any inaccuracies and inaccuracies in both the title and the bill itself. The title of the bill in the beginning gives rise to doubt and does not indicate which area it refers to. It is clear to us that you have been ordered from the EU that such a law must be passed. This is just another one in a series of laws that include EU rules and which are adopted under the EU directive. This is also evident from the reasons in which you clearly point out that the reason for the adoption of this law is to effectively implement the EU accession process, particularly in the context of requirements arising from negotiating chapters 17 and 22, which relate to economic, monetary and regional policy. For the SRS, Serbia's regionalisation is unacceptable, but we will say more about it through further discussion and on amendments directly related to it. When it comes to terms, or terms, we can freely say that they are inadequate and they are a clear indication that EU laws are only being copied, that the right system of the Republic of Serbia is in line with the EU system, without even considering the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32582	The title above the title of Article 1 of the amendment was sent by a Member of the Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32583	We started with the amendments, as you heard from the title and so on, to show you, in fact, the senselessness of the proposal of your laws in some way that you accepted a few years ago from your European friends, they actually accepted them before you, so you just kept going, even though you promised to do a lot of things that they started to break up, but you kept doing all that, and you perfected it even more. It kind of works what you write – above the members of the law, titles, headlines, concepts of what the word in this law means, it all kind of seems like an insult to intelligence. Laws are written to be applied by lawyers, and lawyers must know that they distinguish basic provisions from transitional and final provisions. That's why we think that this article 1 should be deleted, and then it's logical to delete the title above this article, as well as the title itself. It's not a good idea. We talked and we'll talk about it. Because this law will not fundamentally change anything in the state of Serbia. In your explanation, you even mention that it will contribute to this law and economic development. Whatever law you pass, you say it will contribute to economic development. It's the only thing that doesn't happen to us in our lives. On Monday, we are left by an Italian firm, the 10,000 euros it has won in Belgrade, and 50 people are out of work. If that's the economic progress this law offers, then, let's, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32584	On the title above the title of Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title above Article 1 of this Law, where I have requested that this title be deleted. I simply felt that the title above this article was not necessary, because from what is here, the essence of what the law is, or what this member is treating, can be concluded. But, of course, the government didn't accept this amendment, neither did many amendments to the SRS, it also happened to previous governments, but time would show, it was in many things and showed that everything she talked about and what the SRS pointed to was real, and that it was a mistake. We are constantly warning all authorities, from October 5th to here, that the European path of Serbia is a road to ruin, that we have nothing to look for on that road. In the EU, mainly all our enemies who don't think about us and who have never done us any good in history, but the government thinks so, the people wanted to. We can't do anything here, except warn from this pay phone, that the path to which this government is going is not supposed to follow anyway. We have heard now that already some Italian firms, when their contract with the Serbian government expired, have already left or are preparing to leave the market, or produce in Serbia, I don't know what they were doing, will do all the companies. It will follow this example when the time comes, or when it is estimated to be their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32586	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32587	It's interesting that some company, which you're not sure about, has left the market. It wouldn't be bad to hear a little more concrete as the company's name is, how many months she's been doing, how much subsidy she's got, so we can compare economic indicators. What we can compare is the number of companies that have opened in the last four years. Let's see and analyze these 170,000 jobs, because I don't know if we should say, when Simens comes to our country, say from Germany, from the EU, you say that these are our enemies, that then these people who are employed in "Simens" should now be fired, whether we should persuade them to leave their jobs and stay without bread. Is that the message? Should these people in other companies, at Johnson Electric, say, "Svarovski", should we suggest that they leave the factory, leave their jobs and say that they will not work, because they are investments coming from countries that are our enemies? Since this has been done in the last four years in the government led by Aleksandar Vukic, it has been done in such a way that we have increased by 180 thousand people who today have something to look forward to, because they have a new job and have something to go to work for, and we have achieved profitability after 14 months. These subsidies are something that the state allows to attract an investor. From 14 months on, you have a net profit in the production of this subsidy, because the volume of taxes of different contributions and everything these companies pay exceeds what the state has given. So we have a clear interest in 15 months. If those companies were only 15 months old, we already have what's good about them. Many have been here for years, and not only are they not leaving, but they're opening up new drives, opening up, expanding. Just look at MeiTa in Belgrade, which expands, where the average salary is 55,000 dinars. So Serbia is making significant progress and significantly achieves results in investment, which is good for the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32588	Thank you. Nikola Savic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32589	Mr. Minister, all of this would be fine by you saying that the state of Serbia does not give huge subsidies to the opening of such jobs. We in the SRS believe that these subsidies, which are given to certain companies, could be used and used in a much better and much more useful way by the citizens of Serbia. When I was talking about, I wasn't just talking about your government, but also about the governments that have ruled here since 5 October, it means long before your advanced government, but what we're worried about is that most of these contracts, especially those worth contracts, are still non-transparent, not known starting with Fiat, so now with this French company that bought Nicola Tesla airport, and there's a lot more to it. God does not allow us to get into a situation where this government recognises Kosovo, to impose sanctions on Russia. When that moment comes, and slowly this maneuvering space narrows down, then we'll see how profitable these investments are, these foreign investors and how much work they're going to be in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32590	Replica, Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32591	I see you obviously don't understand what I said. Fourteen months, yes, subsidies are given. Fourteen months is their period, I say, more cost-effectiveness for the company than for the Republic of Serbia. On the 15th month, the Republic of Serbia earned from it, and those companies that today expand their facilities in Serbia, some two, three, four, five years significantly exceeded the 14-month deadline. So we have an extraordinary benefit. If you do not grant subsidies, then they will go to Bulgaria, they will go to Macedonia where subsidies are given and then some worker will be employed in some of their cities. We want to hire people from our country. We have achieved an economic model that allows, we have both GDP growth and public debt reduction. 59.3% is a public debt relative to GDP, the lowest so far, below the Mastricht level. You say - we sold the airport to French. So absolutely nothing's sold, it's a concession, a completely different kind of bond. So, the concession where that is ours, that airport is ours, remains in the hands of the Republic of Serbia and in a certain number of years it returns to your governance. We give it to someone else to manage it, it gives us 451m euros of direct money, gives us over 700m euros in investment and gives concessions profit each year in terms of, depending on profit, more millions of euros. So we get huge money for something that stays in our hands. That's a good model. It's models. As for this, thanks to Alexander Vukic, who has repeatedly said it, neither this government nor this state imposes sanctions on the Russian Federation, and it is not thanks to you, but thanks to Vucic, who has the political power to decide such a thing and to realize everything that is the consequence of such a thing and does not occur to us to recognise the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. So I'm asking you not to use such a thing in terms of an attack on the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32592	Thank you. I can give you my word on the amendment, Ms. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32593	I'm not going to. I'm going to do it under Rule 27, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32594	That's what you picked up earlier?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32595	I just got back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32596	Okay, this is deleted for asking for a word. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32597	Yeah, and it could've been different. It is your right, Mrs. Gojkovic, to determine when you will give someone a replica, but the minister has replicated to me and spoken of what I was saying, yes, Minister, and he spoke of it, boasting about which companies we should talk about. I just wanted to ask him to talk a little bit about, say, "The flag" on "Er Serbia", how many countries in the budget are giving "Er Serbia" to present it as a positive...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32598	Now you've come out of the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32599	I am, and I'm really going back to what this member's theme is. The minister tried to explain things to us. Minister, it sounds nice, but reality is different. These subsidies of yours... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32600	MPs, you gave yourself a line. Then I go outside, I mean I don't need to have sessions. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was obvious, because the minister received a replica to replicate Niko Savić to the MP, not you, for his presentation to his amendment, the title of Article 1, and so on, and so on, and so on, as they would say, so you have skillfully used to replicate. A letter from Ruzica Nikolic to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32601	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the amendment I have submitted, refer to the title above Article 1. The bill and the subject matter of editing is deleted from the title. The proposed amendment is more precise and in line with the proposed text and given the content of the text below, its specific emphasis is unnecessary. You, in this way, are additionally and needlessly simply burdening the legal text with various titles, subtitles that, I repeat, are completely unnecessary. It is clear to us that this is happening because of the EU legislation, that because of this the terms in the bill are inadequate, but regardless of the adjustment and alignment of our legislation with EU legislation that Serbia will never enter into, it has to be taken into account the use of Serbian words, Serbian expressions and synonyms, in order to reduce foreign influence and preserve the wealth of Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32602	Thank you. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32603	In this explanation, Ministers, or Government and Minister Djordjevic, when he was here, praised the bill, arguing that it would contribute to Serbia's economic development. Then Minister Stefanovic, you were just beginning to explain, though, you didn't mention this law, you were talking about the subsidies you give ten thousand euros for a job, you said it was a good way to get people employed and thus bring foreign investors in fear that they would not leave, as you said, in Bulgaria. Come on, try it, give it to our people who live in Serbia, give them the same conditions, and see if they will be able to maybe give these to their fellow citizens, where they would open up a company, at least a little more than the minimum wage that these of your people give them that you bring them. Of course, a man who is not employed, what, where, will accept that minimumer, but it is far from a pleasure, Mr Stefanovic, people who work and under very difficult conditions, without being able to use a break for breakfast, let alone something more than that. You know that, but you know, you're unimpeached in the media, you're here to present to the public something that really looks very different, and then it bothers you when we tell you from here, not to you, we're not telling you, we're telling the citizens of Serbia, we're telling the public that you're giving money out of the budget to foreign firms that are here as long as it takes to spend that money, instead of giving those tens of thousands of euros per job to our people, that you're giving to our peasants, that agriculture is developing, you're bringing in any of your friends here as much as you need, you announce that you're hiring 800 people, and he's hiring 50, he's going to say later on one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32604	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32605	Absolutely, here we had more debates about showing people very clearly that these populist thesis: "you give to foreigners, not to give to the locals" are not entirely true. So, the law has defined that subsidies are given equally to anyone who hires a man and I can list you a few companies. Here, for example, Bekament from Arangelovac, who is the beneficiary of these subsidies, a domestic company, because they have recently hired more people. But do you know how many there are? You have a large number of domestic companies. First, all companies opening in Serbia are domestic legal entities. These companies pay taxes in the Republic of Serbia, they pay taxes here, they do business here, they hire workers here, they pay their contributions here. First, it is not 10,000 euros, depending on the year-to-year, there were no 10,000 euros for all companies, but it was given the same conditions, depending on the developed or undeveloped area, more factors affected it, absolutely equal to domestic companies as foreign ones. Anyone who wants to open a company today is entitled to a subsidy. The domestic producer, we want to encourage domestic companies to give it away. Second, the price of love. We also managed to raise the value of the work and I think the government is thinking about doing it in the future, but let's say this "Meita" that opened up in Obrenovac, the average salary in "Meiti" is 55,000 dinars, away from the minimum, and it doesn't work 20 people, but it will work over 2,000. And what company can't use a break for breakfast? What's the name of this company where they can't use it? That's what I'd like to hear. What is this Italian company that will leave Serbia? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32606	Minister, you mentioned that firm in Obrenovac, and it's a good thing you mentioned it. It's a company that's going to make cables, and we have from the strawberry Novacabla to the industry of opportunity where with much less money it was possible to make a modern factory. Those 2,000 or as many people as you say will be employed one day, you don't know exactly when. Don't let every time your president opens a factory, he announces how busy he'll be, and then when he goes, the cameras go down, the factory closes down, so it opens only a few months later, that was your case in Subotica. You know, you can't hide everything, at least from those people who live in that part of Serbia where these things happen. And well, at that firm in Obrenovac, the average salary is 50 and how many thousands say, and how many thousands of people in Serbia receive a minimum, or how many of these new companies, these sides you brought in, are paying less than the minimum people in the account, and the difference gives them hands, so that half of it is returned to them again? Do you know this is happening? That's what I asked Vukic at the time when he was Minister of Government, so he said – he heard it happening somewhere. Do you know that this is happening and what you're doing that doesn't happen? You've made slaves of workers in Serbia. As much as you object to such claims, this is a general opinion, but people are hopeless, in hopelessness, they don't have a job and it's good for them even if they do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32607	Thank you. The word has Nebojsa Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32608	I just need to tell you a few things. First, the Meita factory in Obrenovac does not produce cables, it produces turbo chargers for BMW or Mercedes. It's not cables. Were you there? I'm the one who went through the drives. Have you ever been to Obrenovac in Meiti? I am, of course. If you went to Meita, and I'm going to check with Meite's management if you were there, so I'm going to let the public know that you were, to ask them to organize a better tour, because there are no cables there, there are turbo chargers, a completely different element. Check the turbo charger for BMW and Mercedes. So these turbo chargers that are produced there are built into the best cars in the world and these factories achieve such results. Now there's about a thousand workers, at this point, they're building a new plant next to the plot where the current factory is going to be employed by these people. It can't be in the day, but it's much better than it was, absolutely. So, is it an ideal situation? I didn't say it was ideal and I didn't talk about everyone being overjoyed, but it's much better than when people were in a situation where they didn't even have a dinar. As for the measures that the government implements to fight to pay money on black, therefore, the laws are also passed because it would be impossible for someone to pay less than a minimum. There are rigorous sanctions for that. Is it happening? I'm sure what happens is that what is being paid is invisible, therefore, through the minimumer that can be given to them, in agreement between the employer and the one who receives the money, we can work to prevent it, among other things, and the laws on the prevention of money laundering will help us to prevent money from pumping out of business flows into cash and that in such a way these people get it in cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32609	The word is Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32610	Mrs Gojkovic, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure obliges you to conduct meetings not in your own way or in your current mood, but in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is no replica on the line. Mrs Radeta received a replica of the presentation of Minister Stefanovic. Minister Stefanovic has used all the time he has in accordance with the Rules of Procedure under this amendment. Article 158(7) The Rules of Procedure say – the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot be longer than three hours. It's a restriction for ministers, who are privileged anyway by being able to speak as much as they want in the principle debate and to appear as many times as they want. Those rights, which I can freely say, are not in line with parliamentary democracy and the highest democratic principles, use widely and we are in a situation where they speak much longer than MPs here. In the debate on amendments, their rights are strictly limited. If I have to repeat one more time, therefore, the proposing or authorised representative of the legislator may speak of each amendment for up to two minutes. Point, no further, no other option. The replica on the replica doesn't exist. If she received Mrs. Radeta's replica of the minister's presentation, then he had to be patient afterwards, waiting for another member to respond eventually, but in this way it was misused both the time and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32611	Thank you. So the two basics are completely different, one means to participate in the debate as a proposing, and it's very interesting what you suggested today -- to interpret that there is no replica of the replica, which would mean that only one participant in the debate says two minutes of its replica is still not going on. It doesn't go on. [[Nemnja Sarovic: You say whether there are replicas on the replica.]] No, I'm not in the discussion with you, I'm just answering yours for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I can't hear it right when someone's throwing it away, I've said it a thousand times, then it's got to be louder and louder. So, a very interesting proposal that would speed up the debate process if I only gave a replica to one person still didn't. So, now, by your interpretation, Verity Radetti should not give a replica to the replica of a minister who is nonexistent, according to you. So I am very inclined to accept your interpretation and that one MP says something more as a comment, and that's where it ends. I like that, and I'll think about it for the future, and we'll start with the Faith of Radeth, so slowly, we'll get on with it. But the Rules of Procedure say that the Rules of Procedure are applied accordingly, meaning all provisions, to all participants in the process of debate. So the lawyers know what that means to be applied to all the participants of the debate, and then they should allow ministers and the other parties to replicate several times and move on, in my way. (Vojislav Seselj: You did not write this Rules of Procedure. I didn't. Yeah. (Vojislav Seselj: Well, leave a mark. I'm not and I'm slowly thinking about changing it. We collect examples of practices from regions that have different... Okay, then a little wider, we'll move a little wider. They, for example, argue, and according to what you said I hurt, have decisions to discuss at one point an hour, at the second five, according to how you estimate that a point is important or not important. It's the same nice thing, and between those hours, everyone says what they want and how much they want. They're not that broad of a hand either. If you want us to vote that the injured Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: Yes. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go. I'm still gonna go my own way. I'm gonna lead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32612	Thank you. The minister really brought a few things out here that deserve to be discussed, first of all, and it's good to have that kind of communication with the minister. Minister, you keep avoiding that, even in the first report, I challenged you to talk a little bit about "Er Serbia" or "The flag". You're talking about something that you, like, can brag about. Here, now we have another question, another topic you might be able to discuss. What will happen to "The First Five-year-old," now that you're bringing into Panchevo a company that could have been in Trieste and bringing back all the people who were employed in First Five-year-olds, you're leaving them without bread and bringing them to Panchevo? Of course, it doesn't mean you shouldn't take care of Panchev, but a little practicality. If you have a factory there that might need to be modernised, etc., you have people with work experience, so why was it a problem to do it first, to do something else in Panchev, to hire people in Panchev? You're wandering a little bit, you're not doing very well, I'm afraid some transge-fangs are doing it and that's it. I have to ask you, Minister, since you said you'd check if I was in Obrenovac, do I have any restrictions on moving around Serbia? I know I have a red Interpol warrant from The Hague, and I know I'm not allowed from Serbia, but I suppose I can go to the Obrenovac, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32613	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32614	It's just a matter of work to have a movement ban, away from it. So, you're absolutely free to move. I was surprised you said cable was made in Meita. That was weird, I said, they didn't drive you to the wrong factory, because they don't make any cables there. You need to go see the turbo chargers. I'm going to ask the president of the municipality to arrange for you with the factory's business visit to Meiti as you should, to see how lovely those turbo chargers look, in three shifts, people do them perfectly, for the German best BMW and Mercedes cars, they do them perfectly. I'll arrange it for you if you want, I'll do my best. So, as far as the flag is concerned, that's the situation the government has encountered. So, she took over certain international obligations, took over certain contracts, and, as much as I agree or disagree with it, one serious government has to respect international regulations, because who else would have any confidence with that government to come to work. As for "Er Serbia", the story of "Er Serbia" is a successful story. When you look at the value of “Nikola Tesla” airport just five years ago and when you look at the value of “JAT” and the age of JAT’s planes, and when you look at the state of the company, which is a connected system, and when you look at these parameters today you will understand why this is a successful thing. As for Panchev, there's something called a willing investor. We're not in the Middle Ages to make the investor tell him, you have to open a factory here now, and he says, "We're not going to." So the investor has the right to choose the location. The cities must fight and compete. Where more people can offer them, more conditions, better infrastructure, that's what the city, local self-government can do, and that's why it's important to develop our cities and municipalities, that they can be competitive.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32615	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32616	Here, let's get involved in this interesting debate. I also understand that the government must allocate certain grants to large companies, but I would like to hear, probably have that information, what is the relationship in paid subsidies to domestic companies compared to foreign companies. How much money has come for subsidies, hiring new people, opening new jobs, home jobs. When I say domestic, I mean domestic founders, people who live in this country and who are residents and who are all their money and their business based on their capital and what they've been doing so far. Of course, if we had to compete with countries in the environment so that some interested foreign companies didn't go to the neighborhood and that the more people could come to work, but I would ask you to make such mechanisms in the future to take care of even regional development. So, it's nice to have a factory in Obrenovac that deals with the production of turbo chargers where the salaries are that I've heard an average of 55,000 dinars and it's a very decent salary, but I would ask you to either use the authority of the government, the ministries that when such companies are involved in the production of high-tech products and where it's necessary and common to pay significantly higher than they are minimally, to try to suggest or to encourage additional stimulating measures that these companies open their plants in less developed areas. You know, it's nice that in the spa area, in Nisavska County, in Leskovska, in Jablanic County, several factories have been opened that employ a lot of people, but the average salaries there are very low, barely about 25 to 30,000 dinars. It's better than nothing, I'm not saying it's bad, but it would be much better to say, that factory, the turbo charger, based somewhere in southern Serbia, and to encourage the development of this undeveloped part of Serbia, or ultimately whether it's south or not, it could be in western Serbia. There are a lot of underdeveloped parts of Serbia, where it is necessary if the government already subsidises the foreign companies to make sure that where the lowest salaries are, the lowest income averages, that companies that will give higher incomes come. Let me take a brief look at the story about both the airport and the airport of Belgrade. Yes, the state gave concessions to the Belgrade airport, received a good offer from the French company. As far as I understand the reason for giving concessions is that the state as airport manager is not capable enough to create greater, faster development, to raise the number of passengers and, in this way, by giving concessions, that the state will benefit more. It will receive a certain amount of money for investment, one time in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as I understood it would enter 200m euros and some million euros, and receive a concession fee all year round. So, apro from that story, the state wasn't capable enough to have enough revenue from the airport, if it controls. On the contrary, it is required to transfer to state-owned airport, then it is capable and able to manage it and thus make faster development. I can also understand that there are reasons for this, but it would be fair and correct for the state to say, yes, Nis has spent the last 20, 30 years making serious sums of money to keep that airport alive, separating from his budget at the expense of certain investments, fixing streets, roads, sewers, waterways, kindergartens, which is not to say that the state can then assess how much investment the budget is, how much investment the state of Serbia is, because it simply comes to a percentage share in ownership, and we are all calm and there is no need for any rise in tension. I think that would be an honest and correct approach. I hope the government thinks this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32617	Right to replication, Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32618	About the concessions to say, concessions totaling around 1.5 billion euros, the total amount of that, and 451 million that gets directly to the state, and over 730 million for the airport development investment, and to say, that income that is obtained annually as a concession tax each year from traffic, or profits from the airport. What's this about? It is very simple to say in such a way that the state was not able. Can the state be measured with France or Germany? He can't. Will someone who already has certain interferences in the international sense of managing such a kind of project have the opportunity to increase the number of passengers and companies that will come to our airport, that they will be able to do so faster, yes. Our airport today compared to the previous five years is a more successful company. See how many millions of euros a year the airport pays, means a lot more successful. But would it take us maybe 50 years to develop it? We will do this in a shorter time, manage someone else, the state will get significant money that will help it develop other projects, and we are doing something that is good for Serbia. As far as the airport is concerned, I'm not part of a direct task force tied to the airport in Nis, but the state didn't want to do anything wrong. So by investing funds in the airport, the state will not operate at the airport in Nis, in order to lose money on it, because it has to pay out of the budget. He wants to invest to develop that airport after all, I agree that everything should be considered. How much Nis received transfer funds and how many states participated in the city's budget, how much of that money was invested in the airport, are all factors, all of which should be taken into account. After all, that's why we exist. There is a balanced regional development and there are more subsidies and more ways to invest money, or more money is given where municipalities are undeveloped because subsidies are more significant there. It must also be considered the will of the one who builds the factory. You take a geographical position, close to the highway. That's why we're building highways now. By the way, this Meita factory in Obrenovac is the first factory in Belgrade after 11 years and there are many unemployed people in Belgrade as far as it seems that Belgrade lives better than some parts of Serbia, and I'm sure it is, but most people were unemployed. So it took 11 years for one factory to open in Belgrade, just the one. I mean, there's more to life in Belgrade than in some municipalities in southern Serbia. You need more to pay for school, rent, more expensive life every day. They don't live in Belgrade so wonderfully, so they bathe in silver and gold, I know it's popular, I know it goes great in some parts of Serbia, it says, everything goes to Belgrade. Belgrade normally accounts for 40% of the economy, accounts for 40% of Belgrade, which is only 23% of the population. So, people give money from Belgrade, that money is invested in subsidies and other parts of Serbia, giving people money for other parts of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32619	Thank you. Just to explain to the minister, I'm looking for a replica. You have no basis for replication. You want to explain to the minister? He answered your question. Wait for second chance. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32620	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SDS Group has tabled 11 amendments that are very serious and could regulate the Law on the Plane System in such a way that it is acceptable. But unfortunately, the SNS does not want to talk about changing the law, does not want to discuss improving the law and all these amendments, including this Article 1 has been rejected. Why were these amendments rejected? They were rejected because the SNS thinks she knows everything best and because she doesn't want to hear anyone else in the Serbian Parliament say what she has to say. Again, 380 amendments have been submitted by the SNS to this law, and that means that you SNS gentlemen should replace Minister Vujovic, because this law is no good as soon as you have submitted 380 amendments to a law that has 57 members.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32621	According to his amendment, my colleague Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32622	I'm trying to explain why we submitted the amendment to this article. We filed it for reasons to get into a situation to say anything at today's session, because when the SNS submits 380 amendments to the first law, there's no way to say anything about the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration or any other 19 points. Be careful, it's a serious session. Today we are also discussing the Tax Procedure Act and the administration to which you have submitted 97 members.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32623	Comrade Konstantinovic, please leave your fellow MPs to submit amendments if they wish, and you talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32624	I cannot prevent, obviously, any of the opposition fellow SNS MPs from abolishing parliamentaryism in Serbia and that no one from the opposition can say anything. You see here that the opposition is spinning, so it's submitting amendments to the title. Why? Because no one else can get in line. Here are these 11 amendments, which I say are good, which could determine that this law is acceptable to all, will not come in turn to be explained in this assembly. Why? Because the government has 380 amendments to this law. You have abolished the opposition's ability to say anything in this House again. It is not parliamentaryism, and it is not clear to anyone in Serbia why you are doing it, except for you who show us that you do not suffer any criticism and that you do not want a dialogue on any topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32625	Despite my warnings... According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Orlic? Right to the Republic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32626	Since it was mentioned on several occasions by the SNS, Mr. Chairman. On the subject of some absence of desire, of will, which, on our part, is that we are here to discuss as it is said, excellent proposals, good amendments that someone wants to make fundamental progress, and we don't want to hear it. He did not say a word of the amendment to his amendment. What's this phenomenal proposal that I'm bad, bad, bad, and bad, we're not gonna hear? I'll read it. This awesome proposal reads like this – Article 1 is deleted. I have to admit, an incredibly good proposal, so inventive, so contentive, so many good essential things it contains, that we have made it very difficult to conclude that this is a complete void, a nothingness of which, and that a man, with the best will in this world, has really nothing to discuss. Besides, I don't have to say it. Those who watched what this so-called. The explanation of the amendment, they saw how much we're denying someone, two minutes in the Rules of Procedure, the standard explanation of the motion for their amendment. We have been listening for two minutes and 40 seconds on the subject – this is very good, I just can't tell you what it is. So much on the subject that something can't say whatever it wants to say in this room, even if there's a void, or a lack of any meaning, and to comment further, I think it's too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32627	Right on line, MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32628	Chairman, you could explain to your colleague Orlic that there is no need to offend me or anyone in the opposition for the text of the amendment. The genius, innovation and creativity of SNS MPs will be seen by citizens in direct transmission when they quote 380 of the same amendments, which happens from session to session, and all due to the fact that Parliament is devised, that no one can look at this anymore, because you in parliament talk to yourself for months, and you don't allow anyone else to think that this is their opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32629	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32630	I'm afraid we didn't understand each other here. I didn't insult anyone, I praised them. So I said that the proposed amendment is excellent, phenomenal, that its content is so good and so good that we made a huge mistake not to consider it better, and it is seen from the very text that I also read. So once again, the amendment reads - Article 1 is deleted. This much content and this much meaning I haven't seen for sure since the beginning of this year. I wanted to commend that, of course. On the subject of our amendments, ladies and gentlemen, whether they are the same or not, it can be concluded by a man who sits in this room listening to these amendments, listening to and listening to arguments. Of course, the one who comes into the O.R. just five minutes a month, on average, the rest of the time, whether he spends in a cabinet or in a restaurant, I don't get into it. But when you spend a little bit of time in the O.R., then you notice these fine shades in the contents of the amendments and, for example, in our praises so sincerely, when we want to say something -- this is really worth it, this is really so good that we seem to have made a mistake this time. Let's get serious, if you don't mind. The amendments to the SNS, and that is explained to those who have some problem with them, not one single one, but not one single, ladies and gentlemen, is at that level of seriousness that contains the text - Santa is descending down a series of reflections, and I think that amendment has signed, by hand, the one who gives himself the right to comment on our amendments. That shame can never be washed, and whenever it starts to talk about amendments, let it remember its honorable role in that phenomenal move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32631	The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32632	Mr Stefanovic, here is an opportunity to talk about how certain action plans and various planning documents have been done since the moment the SNS took over. I'll look back at two, if time lets me. First, at the first of 2015, it was the Action Plan to resolve the situation in 188 companies that were in the privatisation process in which the bankruptcy process was launched. Since you had one minister who is now a National MP, who has kidnapped you and who has led this bankruptcy mafia, my question to you is, what has happened to all those people who have lost their jobs in these companies? What have the bankruptcy managers done for the past three years? How will it be from which mass of resources calmed down the work that literally remained on the street after 20 and 30 years? We have the "Autosaport" case in Kragujevac, where over 800 people were out of work, and the state could have solved it because the town of Kragujevac and the government of the Republic of Serbia were the majority owner of the company. To explain to me, given that you started the controversy with Mrs. Radet, about your Industrialization Action Plan, that is to say, for the opening of new factories, which is almost every day, from month to month, and boast about these projects, how the Government of the Republic of Serbia brought the factory "Simens", when all of us who are born and live our entire lives in Kragujevac and we have worked in some industrial systems, like me in the former "Stava", that is, the export sector of the company, so we know who these engineers are and who Mr. Milanović is, and we also know that this is the personal project of Mr. Milanović, the owner of "Milanović Engineering", who "Simens" took over and who managed to bring the factory "Simens" to Kragujevac? What are you going to do when the current contract with the "Fiat" expires, given that Kragujevac is in a difficult break-in? You continue to hold that incompetent Radomir Nikolic as mayor. Problems are piling up, and FIAT workers are afraid they'll lose their jobs because the factory doesn't work at full capacity. What is clear to all those who follow the global scene and the auto-industry in the world is that this model is a complete failure and that it cannot in that sense and how Dinkic, with his yellow mafia, imagined to break into the world market at this price and at this quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32633	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32634	Thank you. With this amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia is proposed to replace the text: "Effectability Assessment". The reason for this amendment was also given by the Proposer, who explained the concepts used in this Bill's proposal and defined the impact assessment as an assessment of efficiency and efficiency. We in the SRS are of the opinion that the adoption of the proposed amendment would lead to a better definition of the subject matter, i.e. better define the obligation to carry out an analysis of the effects and regulations itself to assess the effectiveness of the rules. The fact is that the quality of the regulation for a particular substance depends heavily on the different areas of life of the people to whom these regulations apply, so it is necessary to take into account when adopting any regulation. If it turns out that applying a plan document or implementing a particular public policy in a particular area does not achieve the desired objectives at the level of society or that the achievement of the objectives is negative for a particular group of people, public property or any other negativeness, then it is crucial to carry out an efficiency assessment. That is actually why this amendment is to be submitted to the SRS parliamentary group and that is why this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32635	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32636	Mr. Minister, Article 1 speaks of the subject of the regulation of this law and Minister Djordjevic, when he explained this law, said that now the plan could be done much more. And you've been in power for six years now, so I'm wondering if you've been working unplanned so far, and you just missed this bill so that you could do it much better and more seriously? Then, here, Article 1 says that on the basis of the medium-term plans, what should be the subject of this law will already be done. Are you announcing soon maybe the adoption of short-term planning laws, long-term planning laws, public enterprises laws, and they need to plan and work accordingly? Mr. Minister, you've trained nicely to change the thesis, so when you say you've hired so much and so much, you can't argue, but some colleagues have indicated that you should go to places where so far there is no investment either by domestic investors or by investors coming from abroad. Well, you say -- it can't be influenced, you mean the investor, to invest in a particular place. Now, that's why business entities from Serbia are a little more equal than others, because they have other motives for others to invest in places that are highly underdeveloped compared to where foreign capital has been pouring or opening new jobs so far. Here, just to remind you that in Baja's Garden, Lyubovija, Mali Zvornik, and also in Krupanj, don't just tell me that "Jinsi" has invested something, it is true that, occasionally, about 150 workers are employed, but to remind you, it's not always, it's not for everyone. A meal, a warm meal at the monthly level, will be 500 dinars. Yeah, you heard right. One employee, one monthly meal is only 500 dinars, and the salary is minimum wage. While in these three places I said there are none or at least no more serious investments. The password and the Sabbath are in a different situation. I wouldn't even talk about it right now. You here, then, have to deal with it and create a little better conditions, i.e. give them a more favourable chance for domestic businessmen who, because they want to stay there, which is their family, which is the environment that suits them most, to give them a little more chance that they could develop together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if you like, and the other parts of Serbia, and not just those who have a highly developed and travel and any other economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32637	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32638	Don't think we don't see that kind of problem, I totally agree that we need to find a modus. I am offering to help organise meetings with ministers who are more resolutely responsible for the economy and with people from the government who want to deal with it, from the Prime Minister's office, how to find enough ways to hire more businessmen, or how to enable them to achieve some newer models of incentives in these municipalities or in any other way that people can invest more there. So we had some problems in certain municipalities. When you spoke earlier in Nis, for Nis we had about 70m euros in debt since 2012, 5.3 billion dinars for electricity, social programme, and 21.5m euros in debt to banks. That's what the state took over. So, the 70m euros someone has to pay. It's a problem in some municipalities, with some companies. Often people tell us – take this company out of bankruptcy. No one will. Businesses come home and abroad and say – I should have debts, I should have unresolved property relations, I should have trustees – I won't, I won't torture myself. Let's talk to people for real, let's talk completely true. It's easy to say -- well, great, let's go to this neighborhood where he's unemployed, let's open a factory there. What do you think that doesn't occur to any government? I didn't think the previous governments thought differently, except they couldn't do anything. We have managed to bring investors into some of the very underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. It's not easy. It's not easy about the labor force either. We have very few qualified people and even people who want to work in these companies. Of course we'll work together. I'm giving you a chance, if you want, I really want you to, as much as I can help, try to find solutions, but just so it's not a solution -- well, give us 100 billion, so we can have a nice living and making good money, and by the way, some worker is going to work, that's great.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32639	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Sreto Peric, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32640	How about a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32641	You have no right to a replica. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Sarovic is not here. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32642	I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system and proposed "implementing participants", replacing the term "implementing all participants", and referring to participants who propose and adopt planning documents in the plan system. I am pleased that this amendment has been adopted, because I believe that the amendment is more concrete in terms of terminology, but unfortunately, by adopting this amendment, the law is not significantly improved. In fact, this law is difficult to improve, because it is meaningless and unnecessary in itself, and it is unnecessary because you bring it by EU dictatorship, not because there is a real need for the adoption of this law. The very text of the law states that you have conducted consultations with the European Commission and the EU delegation in Serbia, which is in line with the current policy for all regulations at the level of the Republic of Serbia to be harmonised with European legislation. I think it is necessary for citizens of Serbia, who are watching this transfer, to know that you have taken the obligation to align all republican regulations with EU regulations through a national programme for the harmonisation of regulations, i.e. legal flows with EU liquids. As long as you pass laws that are in line with EU laws, you will hardly have time and opportunity to work on laws that are really necessary to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32643	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32644	This law, Article 1, regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems, such as its medium-term planning, type and contents of the planning documents proposed, adopted and implemented by participants in the planning system, the mutual coherence of the planning documents, the procedure for determining and implementing public policies and the reporting obligations on the implementation of the planning documents, as well as the subsequent application of the obligation to carry out an analysis of the effects on regulations and to evaluate the effects of those regulations. We asked for this latest "these regulations" to simply be replaced with "as well as reporting on the effects of public policies achieved". Why does it matter? Because when you're planning something, I guess it's essential and to inform the competent institutions what you've done. Do you ever file a report? It's clear to me that by taking over the ideologies of DS in the last six years, you're continuing to do the same thing that they've been doing and the dominoes. I will remind the public, under the Law on the Budgetary System, the government has until July 15th of each year to submit a report to parliament on how it spent money. It was the last time it was done in 2002. On the other hand, when a company, as we speak here in the law, if we take an example, is it a local self-government, an example of any private, doesn't deliver a financial report for the previous year, what does the Agency for Business Registers do? Of course, he's filing a complaint to the D.A.'s office. Here the question arises – how is it possible for the state not to adopt the Final Account Act after 16 years, which should account for how it spent Serbia's citizens' money? That's what this law is about to do. You say what public policy is, what everything is planned, and only there is no other part, and that does not say what the effects of this law, what it will do, what will be implemented and what will be improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32645	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32646	The point here is that the government proposes to be a public policy plan, and we suggest that it be a public function planning. In fact, there was a debate at the previous session and we found that there was no, other than public policy, no other policy, no secret policy being conducted, and a policy being implemented by the central government is being implemented through functions. What is very interesting, here we hear as an explanation, the long-term planning and visibility of this government is that it gives us information that factories are being opened, such as turbo chargers, such as the announced tractor factory, and it is forgotten that there is no long-termity, and in the sense that we are sure that in the next period it will be secure employment and safe income of this country. Look what this is all about. You will rarely find a factory to be opened, where it is stimulated by a state that uses re-promatter in the form of spare parts that serve to install or produce this final product. Your best example is a recently announced tractor factory. The potential investor himself says the engines will be imported and spare parts will be assembled here in Serbia. You then have only a factor – a cheap workforce, or, possibly, if there is some spare part, such as a tire or crane inflating pump, such as in the flag. You know, you can't build some long-term perspective in the economy by importing parts, putting together that finished product or semi-product to export to whoever invested for his final product.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32647	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32648	The long term is achieved by looking at the level of investment and what these people are investing here, which money is left to our country, they'll be there in a year or two, and then they'll think about pulling back, and then they'll be left with only objects worth significantly more than that. Not to talk business. It's not easy to run a job, train workers and hire them. Of course, you should always think, when you say that we're not a country that can compete in making planes, but if it offers us some airline to make some, the smallest part of them, of course we have to accept, because from that moment on, we're going to become part of a big system. You remember that story about "Ikeu" - a man, a domestic, a small producer, a Serbian, ours, launched a private business, a family business, a real man of the bellows and his bets started to sell all over the world. If he'd waited for us to make the hall, if we'd made the bed and the tractor and the plane, we'd have waited. And the question is whether a country of our size and strength can compete competitively with much larger countries that can produce more units of anything and thus achieve a lower price. So, in that sense, it's important that we be part of the chain of production. I agree with you that we should insist as much on production as possible. Production is very important. But also, we must, as a small country, work on the development of services. It is not always easy to predict how much something will last, but it is important that we try to put it on sound ground, that the state helps the private sector to do so, and the private sector, if it finds its own interest, it will last as long as that interest exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32649	By amendment, the People's MP... (Milorad Mircic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. By amendment, Comrade Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32650	What Arsic begged, domolio, as the epic song puts it. It's hard for Arsic to resist, but he has a soft heart sometimes, too. In fact, there are some things that need to be cleared up here, and it is well initiated by Minister Stefanovic. Wasn't it, Mr Stefanovic, a few years ago, three or four years ago, that the public was informed that planes would be produced in the Utva Drives? Wasn't that information presented to the public? How come we can't make planes now? It's not about us arguing. Here's where the former Army Minister of Defense will help us. So it's not the point of us arguing whether or not it is. The bottom line is that we have to work to develop our own technology, that we have to produce our own product. We manufacture refrigerators, freezers that wear the "Fire". For export, it's refrigerators and freezers from Serbia. They are treated as products from Serbia. But profit, profit, goes to Slovenia. That's the point. Why can't we run, that's what it's about, if it's long-term, planned, why can't we run the production of white technique? That's what we had. Whether she was good, whether she was at the level, it doesn't matter, but we've hired many machine engineers, electric engineers, well, ultimately, economists and lawyers. We have to develop our industry in the long run, not brag about it, and make sure it's a turbo charger, or it's a set of cables. The point is, it's all in the other one. The bottom line is we're developing our own production. Just so we're clear, can we make small-gabarite planes in Utva or can't? Or was it just one of a series of pre-election promises?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32651	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32652	Thank you. The first answer to that, and then just to be clear about both investment and investment in our country and how and how we want to develop. There are "Lasta" aircraft in our house, they are even exported, and I think it's a school plane that has shown very good results, which is in that range among the best in the world and allows pilots to learn everything they do in the first phase when it comes to flying lessons and to have some of their first training on those planes. Of course, we will work on making that plane a product that will be sold everywhere in the world. For now, there are only a few countries, but I hope there will be more and more of them, and we will certainly perfect this product in some future period and it will get a completely different dimension when it comes to our aviation industry. The "Lasta" plane is not an aircraft that was produced not so long ago and has not already experienced some of its changes. That plane is certainly perfected and already has a digital cockpit, unlike the first one, and I think it provides all the opportunities for a pilot when it comes to training in some first flight hours to do it in the best possible way and to introduce him into this very flying world. Of course, he's also the school plane of our army, which is the best recommendation for other armies to use this plane. We want to expand to some other segments when it comes to aviation. You know, we talked ourselves about wanting to be a regional service centre for Russian helicopters and ER-base helicopters, so it's also one of our country's perspectives and that everything our experts are for when it comes to the airline industry is used in the best possible way and we give them a job and perspective to stay in our country. When it comes to economics, when it comes to economics, you know, you can't, you have two ways. First of all, we as a state form a company that will be involved in producing white technology, which you say you are not in favour, and the other way is to provide an opportunity for foreign investors to come here to produce something as a finished product. As a state, we want to encourage them to come to us, invest with us, but we also want to encourage our domestic businesses to monitor this production and investment and create a cluster. One thing is when someone comes in here and starts producing some product, importing spare parts, we make them here, but we give our people the opportunity to start producing these spare parts here. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia grants subsidies to our entrepreneurs to just open such plants and be part of that production. It will certainly be more favourable than abroad, because there will be no customs duties, there will be no expensive transport costs, but will be produced here. This is how and how we can make that profit here in Serbia, i.e. that this production is based on the production of spare parts in Serbia and that is the idea of this government. It is not the idea to just bring investors, but, as I told you, clusters, production of spare parts and training. We have gone parallel now and with the training of our people, i.e. the Ministry of Education very carefully works how and in what part of our country investors come in and what is it that the state of Serbia will need in the coming period, when it comes to the profile of the profession. We will also follow that from the level of education and that is, I think, a solution and that is how and how investors come and how to stay in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32653	Right on the line, colleague Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32654	Mr. Djordjevic, you find a man hard to believe. You're now inventing here on the spot that you minors represent to produce, serially produce Lasta's planes. It's not true, Mr. Minister, two prototypes have been produced, two or three perhaps, in principle, and it stops. Leave it alone. You're trying to explain an area that isn't clear to you either. The worst thing is that you can find yourself in a situation where you can explain what's not clear to him. What is the fact, Mr. Djordjevic, do you know how many young scientists, college-educated, work in our different institutes? The state doesn't need to open up a white-tech factory, but the state needs to interfere, to speed up the opening in a private initiative, in the private direction of such a single factory. Let's say, we had a situation, just to remind you, the EI Nis was technologically far ahead of the current "Fire" and "Iscre" from Kranj. So, what happened then? It was done by experts from EI Nis who were taken to Slovenia to develop white technology there. It's the essence of these people with whom the state has disrupted, stimulated, used, exploited here. It's the least of the problems when it comes to technological design or the development of white technology. It may be a much bigger problem that you're cheating again, who knows which way the public, that you'll be installing electronics into purchased, or purchased MiG, or whatever you say, you'll be able to speed up the performance of the MiG aircraft by IT technology. That's not even the kind of person who has an elementary technical education. Well, what's the logic of things that you do in such high-tech, like MIG design technology, you do some innovations, so you have to ask the manufacturer, but don't deceive the public. We'd all like it to be what you're dreaming of, but unfortunately it can't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32655	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32656	First of all, I think it's hard words. You say I make it up first. Secondly, I wasn't talking about MIG at all, I was talking about Russian MI helicopters and I was talking about remonting and modernization and being a regional repair center. When it comes to how and how the state can, I just said, how can we speed up our people to produce spare parts? We cannot speed up by saying here you are making a spare part for something that is not produced as a final product in Serbia, but we have said that we can in this way, that we can bring someone who works the final product, and that we encourage our people to open here and produce spare parts for that final product, and that is how we can make a complete product and ultimately be the product of the state of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to experts, you say well, it's some policy from the past as well as how they were taken from the Republic of Serbia, and we're trying to change that exactly by encouraging the opening of these companies and wanting the best experts to stay in Serbia. We want to change that and learn how others have sinned and allowed people abroad to go to them. This is what we want to change and we want young people to stay here, we want young people to have a chance in Serbia. They will have a chance in Serbia if they do what they do, their idea has a final product. If we succeed on that, these young people will stay here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32657	You have no right to a replica. By amendment of my colleague Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32658	Here, very briefly. Obviously, Mr. Djordjevic, I have a small gap between knowledge and opportunity, i.e. desire and opportunity. You do, but you can't and you don't keep wanting what supports you, desire is something that can motivate more people. But on the other hand, there's one cruel reality that you can't do what you want, because you've wanted six years, Mr. Minister, from different functions and you fake what we Serbian radicals are presenting to you. It's not about bringing someone in, so to open production, we have our people who are interested in doing it, but only if the experts hired. Well, here, in IT technology, information technology, where your experts took them from foreign companies. Why? Well, only for a few hundred euros there are cases that have gone to work for foreign companies. Couldn't the state have provided them with better conditions? Not as a state to support, but for a simple reason, the system to be run by the government should take care of it. You have the "Nikola Tesla" Institute, "Michajlo Pupin", see how many young, smart people you have there. Besides, there's no need for youth to be a limit, there's people out there who've been doing science for, like, a long, long time. They have to, they're forced abroad to sell their innovations, their knowledge. Why? There's not enough resources to be found, and we're just talking about planning work in the next period. Well, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32659	Right on line, Mr. Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32660	I thank you for first recognising that the young are now detained and that they are in the Republic of Serbia, in all these institutes, unlike some earlier times, but what I am about to tell you is a fundamental difference for your question. Our score in the last four or three and a half years is 130,000 new employees and this is the result that we brought more than two billion foreign investments only last year. This means that something has changed, that people see a chance in Serbia and see a chance to invest in this Serbia and return it, and that we hire our people and not allow our people to go abroad, but to give them a chance to stay in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32661	According to the amendment, the applicant for the amendment, colleague Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32662	Mr. Djordjevic, this isn't about you taking out the total employee number, this is about the system of complexity of the work they're doing. Depending on this complexity, the state of income benefits. There's one comparison, it's like putting a gray color next to a black color, and then everyone's gonna say she's white compared to black. But when you put that same gray color next to the white color, everyone will say it's black. That's how you try to explain things. There's a job that's very simple, very low-productive, that makes a small profit. These are jobs that are mostly represented in Serbia. We insist, we work, we put pressure on you in some way, conditionally speaking, to finally realize that it's not the solution to that. On the other hand, there's highly developed technology. I wish you were right, that Serbia would be an official service provider for Russian helicopters. Russia has a much better technology than it is a public play. Can't a company be built with them to produce together. After all, Gorenje produces in Serbia because it has a Russian market, because it places its product as a Serbian product and the Russians have already seen it through. Why didn't the Russians take your flag? Why didn't they take the Fiat cars? Because it's an Italian product. So you have to have your own product. You have to have your product to go to that market, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32663	You have no right to a replica, Minister Djordjevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32664	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who has worked for six years at IMT, as someone who deals with agriculture, I am in a certain way obliged to try to say something in the IMT that was mentioned here. ‘Tafe’ and IMT were granted a licence from the same producer of the ‘Perguson’. We've adopted that technology, but it's not originally ours. IMT not sold, sign sold, property not sold. Property remains for creditors to settle because IMT is over 100m euros in dubiosis. The factory to be built in Jakovac, and that is the only land in the village of Jakovac, is something that has been sold. The factory will be ours, not ours. All the factories that open in Serbia are ours. Someone who advocates free flow of capital should know that property relations are changing, but the factory will remain ours, the product will be ours. Production from five to 10,000 tractors will be worth up to 120m euros. We've recently imported engines from India. Since the factory "Brown" is mounted, not mom's castings, we can't even build the engine. Anything else, I believe it will be made here because the investor, the one who invested capital in the Serbian firm, will pay more to buy it here, tires, batteries, various parts, gas slippers, clutches, brakes, etc. Since this technology was co-operatives in Serbia who worked for IMT, while we worked in IMT we mainly made certain parts of the rules, we got everything else from Serbian cooperatives. I believe that we will produce up to 120m euros in tractors, that more than half will be taken by cooperatives, and that several million euros a year our workforce will receive. We'll have our tractor back with an IMT log. That tractor is identical to, just with new engines, like those produced by IMT, something modern. By producing equipment and tractors, we in agriculture realize some of our independence from imports. I believe that money will come to workers, that money will come to co-operatives, and the state will have a GDP that will be greater than it is now from production, not from services, from production, by 120m euros. So I strongly welcome the project that IMT will implement with Tape on our market, on our country, for the benefit of our workers, for the benefit of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32665	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32666	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow People's MPs, on the proposal for a bill on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to Article 1, in the sense of adding Article 2, which reads: "The plan's system is being affirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rule of law. “ The proposal for a plan system law is an important positive step made by the government in the domain of public policy making. This law provides for the modernisation of the system of planning and public policy creation. What is very important, the adoption of a plan system law improves public consultation, which greatly contributes to the affirmation of Serbia's overall development. Unlike the practice so far, when public consultations, which in many cases were carried out in a slow manner, at the end of the adoption of a particular document or policy, when there was literally little room for fundamental changes, the Law on the Plane System will respect the basic values of democracy, sufficientness and the rule of law. These values are common to all Member States in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance and equality. The plan system law points to the fact that the speed of EU accession is important, but that the level of readiness is even more important. Due to the above, the above-mentioned amendment clearly points to the overall development that the state of Serbia has achieved over the past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32667	Dear fellow Members, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32668	Chairman, I'm using my time as head of the Parliament Club. I heard this amendment proposal and it deserves to be read again, certainly - the plan system is affirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rule of law. We spoke in the principle debate on the importance of this law and the particular importance of synchronising plan documents from the local level, across the regional and republican levels. I can agree with the idea of this amendment, certainly there are no MPs who would not support such an amendment with insistence on this subject and respect for the right. I call on you, since we opened that discussion that was, it seems open enough to me to the public, because it is necessary for the public to meet in particular some public policies and republican governments, but also local levels. Here, a colleague called for the public to be heard when making some decisions. We will return to that example of Nis Airport and call, since we also have the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Government here here, to speak openly with all entities in the city of Nis, primarily the citizens of Nis, NGOs, of course, the council members of the City Assembly, the mayor, representatives of local authorities, on this topic which opens the legal process in the transfer of the city of Nis to the Republic of Serbia and how consistent we in this regard are in the policies that we have already adopted here. I think it is important for all of us to open this issue, because we adopted the Public Property Act and something that has been a public policy since 1995, we also talked about when the Law on Assets and Property of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, when cities, municipalities, local self-government, public enterprises remained practically without their property and became users of property owned by the state of Serbia. We later, and many of you were in this meeting in 2011, passed the Public Property Act, which had the intensities to return this property to both local self-government and public enterprises and precisely with the desire to make all these institutions much more efficient. So where is our consistency now that the government has reached a conclusion requiring the city of Nis to transfer that property to the state of Serbia. So that's one of the topics. In addition, it opens up publicly, and for this reason I call on a colleague who has submitted this amendment, to hear what he thinks about it and how his amendment can boost this debate, so that we too can decide, possibly support that amendment, and that is the public policy of the Serbian state regarding the relationship to key infrastructure systems in the country. Since it is often respected by the opposition here that there is no policy of its own and that it only criticises itself, here I will come up with one proposal, and I think it is important because of the presence of ministers, and this is a relationship to key infrastructure projects and I will give it to the case of the airport, but also the "Nikola Tesla" airport. Of course, every man in Serbia must look forward to the growth and frequency of traffic at both one airport and another and it is indisputable for me and for all people who want to develop Serbia. The question is how can we encourage what is essential, which is a service to the citizens of Serbia. It is therefore my view that key infrastructure projects should not be given either in concession or privatised. The majority ownership of the Republic of Serbia over the password structure should be maintained, but the infrastructure that can encourage operations over these functions should be maintained. So, Nis' property over Nis Airport, with the adoption of the law, in fact of the Free Sky Agreement, opened a space for an increase in the number of passengers above 300,000, and God forbid that it grows to a million and more without this restriction in the concession agreement of Nicola Tesla Airport, but that is only possible if you have a infrastructure that holds a price low enough for each passenger by developing a market match at the "low cost" company to provide the cheapest possible services to the citizens of Serbia, not to the citizens of Nis, but to the whole region, because of flying from the airport and people from Subotica, Novi Sad, Belgrade and other towns of Serbia. So, privatization of operations yes, privatisation of infrastructure no. This should be property or local self-government or the state of Serbia that will thus lead a responsible policy in providing the cheapest and most qualitative services to Serbian citizens, in this case it is cheap flights. When a foreign company enters either a concession or a privatisation, of course it will go exclusively for profit. This will raise fees, services and the price of services on their facilities, which will also collect ticket prices, which will naturally cost more services to end-users, which are citizens of Serbia. This is why we need to talk openly and I call on a colleague who has submitted this amendment to give us an additional explanation on these issues in order to decide whether or not we will support your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32669	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32670	This is an interesting amendment, and it's very important to start from the beginning. It is very important to see what the city of Nis was in, let's say in 2012, how many debts it had and what the perception and perspective of the citizens of Nis and what services they could expect from their work and from their republic at the time. Very important, since you are proposing a different model, and then you were exercising power, that is, the party you belong to was all the world in Serbia, which the people would say, to see what you left for Nisa citizens so that we could appreciate the purpose, or the policy ways that you propose. You suggest that the city of Nis owes 5.3 billion dinars for electricity, for social contributions, for performers of all works, so the party you belong to left the town of Nis and 21.5m euros in loans to banks. Under these conditions, the prospects of the development of the airport were rather dark. We have a situation today that we need a lot of parameters to consider, therefore, not just the lou bone of the company. The number of transit passengers must also be taken, the services the airport will receive, which will be received by the Civil Aviation Directorate, all of what in fact in air traffic has an airport through its own tax. In 2017, we have about 420,000 passengers proposed, planned by the airport. They filled about 331,582 passengers, which is about 79% of the plan. So, compared to their plan, they were not successful enough, even though people did everything possible. However, if you want Nis to be more significantly positioned, if we want to make more money, and I want it, as someone who truly loves that city, then we have to have stronger investments. Why is the concession good? The concession is good for you to get a billion and a half euros, and it remains in your possession. If you think the state's only got a billion and a half so it can invest, it doesn't. We need that billion and a half euros. With these billions and a half euros, we manage to raise "Nikola Tesla" Airport more significantly. We want the state managing Nisham to raise the quality of the airport, the quality of the service, the degree of investment and Nis to be one of the more powerful airports in that part of our country, to be significant in the region for different purposes and for the various jobs and services that can be done there. So it seems to me that so much dust has been raised around something that is only a good desire for the government to do something for the citizens, but in order for you to be able to do something for the citizens, you first have to have a stable economy, you have to have an economy in which you can invest. You have to have an economy where you can pay for something, where you don't owe it. Unfortunately, since the town of Nis was left in 2012, the airport could not develop, could only count on it to be closed. Today we're fighting and we have a completely different perspective. Today we are competing on who will be more, the city or the Republic, and it is the same register, it is the same money for Serbian citizens, who will invest more. Too bad we didn't have it five or six, seven or eight years ago. Today, that airport may have a million passengers a year. I just want to tell you -- here we have a good proposal from the Republic Government that's good for citizens. Will all political structures be satisfied with it, will they try, on various political sides, to catch some cheap political points? You're right. The real question is: What do the citizens have from it? Citizens of Nis and Serbia have some if their airport is managed in the best possible way. If all this was ideal before, it doesn't matter whether it's your party or your SNS or anyone else, then the city of Nis would be a good enough founder, or we'd have incomparably better results. With the debts he inherited and the environment, because the world was changing, you saw what happened with Er Serbia, how much time Er Serbia had to invest, how much it had to develop, to get to the rise, and that was the last chance we had of having a domestic, national air carrier. JAT was finished, 1986 the last plane was purchased, you know it well. So it was our last chance to have a domestic air carrier. With the purchase of a new fleet, investment and the increase in passenger numbers, we have raised the value of Belgrade's Airport, we have succeeded, with good synergy of working with Er Serbia and good management at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, to raise the level of the airport, which is how much money we could get in the concession five, six, seven, eight years ago, today we have a billion and a half. It was a serious way of doing things, and that's why he proposed this model for Nis. (Goran Ciric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32671	Mr. Kiriq, you have no right to a replica. Only the minister answered your questions. (Goran Ciric: Then the time of the head of the parliamentary group.) Ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32672	I think I had the right to a replica, since the minister directly mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32673	You had no right to a replica, let me get this straight right away. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32674	Mr. Vice President, you said you didn't know why there was so much dust. The dust is rising, in fact, people are asking for answers to some questions because they think it's important to open the topic and open the conversation and give them information about everything people are interested in. So they were interested in the first contract of the "Nikola Tesla" airport, and you mentioned that we were getting a billion and a half. All right, we get a billion and a half, but we need to say the details, in which way. Five hundred million is a concession fee, as far as I know, what we've seen in public since I haven't seen the contract, but we can only hear it from you. That is why it is necessary for the public to hear the information, in order to be serious, as serious people, to discuss exactly what is needed for the citizens of Serbia. One part of it, most of it, about 400 million goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, some of it, about 100 million or 80 million, goes to minority shareholders, and that billion you spoke of is a promise of investment. Right? The question is now being raised, because it is interesting to me, and I trust all MPs and all citizens of Serbia, where these billion-dollar investments, to which the buildings will belong after the expiry of the concession contract, will be owned by those facilities that will be built on airport land. I think these are topics that are very important so that you don't leave room for any speculation, because I think that as serious people we should talk to arguments and with complete information. Without full information and familiarising the public with the Belgrade Airport concession agreement, we will not have a serious debate. Secondly, this constant mention and invitation to what you left in 2012. I wasn't in that local government in 2012 in Nis, but I know well, I was mayor of Nis from 2000 to 2004 and I know what we then inherited from Nis Airport. In 1999, the airport was bombed, unfortunately, there were 30 craters left, there were 27 unexploded 300 to 1,000 kg missiles with explosives with uranium charge and major dangers and threats, if you will, of a city two kilometers from the centre of Nis. That's when we found it. We found trees growing from the runway, and that's something none of Nischli anyway and nobody in Serbia wanted. But then, as local authorities, we made efforts, provided funds and donations to the Norwegian government, invested from the local budget another 3m euros, sixm euros were invested by the Norwegian government. Serbia's military has invested its knowledge and its courage to demining that space and we have equipped an infrastructure project. Did he do an ideal job at the airport after that? He got a great infrastructure and got rid of the big wounds he had in 1999 and that's important for all of us, but he gave a basis for further development. It is true that it was not ideal in 2012, as it is not ideal today. I guess the goal is to be better already tomorrow, and that is why I call on both you and all the people involved in this topic to open up all the information about the agreement on the concession of the "Nikola Tesla" airport and the future status of Nis Airport, about the best solutions for this, about the Serbia Army relationship, about the property relationship with the town of Nis, to discuss this with full information and to look for the best solutions for citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32675	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32676	Since you don't like it, unlike some of the former times, I'm going to say that the government from 2008 to 2012 when it concluded a contract with the Fiat, you know very well how and under what conditions it has concluded and what transparency this contract has today and what kind of bond we've taken over that we can't publish today. I think you witnessed not so long ago, two days ago Minister Mihajlovic said this concession contract would be disclosed and that you will see what it contains. Of course, part of it until it's realised will be classified. The questions you ask require answers. First, yes, the concessionaire has pledged to invest in "Nikola Tesla" Airport, but not only to increase his profits, but to increase traffic and build infrastructure and to make something that is now Belgrade Airport much more grandiose, much larger and serve a much larger number of passengers, to which he has committed. When you ask about ownership, I hope that when I tell you this you will give praise, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed with a concessionary, or such an agreement, that everything that is built there belongs to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and is registered at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which means that it belongs to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport from the moment it is put into office, even after 25 years of concession. Which, you agree, is a big difference between what's been happening and how it's been arranged before. When it comes to citizens of Serbia and users, you say it should be possible for Nish airport users to be citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are looking to increase this and to have profits from foreign citizens, to make our airports regional airports, to land the planes of different companies, to provide the highest quality service and thus to increase our number of passengers and profits of the Serbian state. We have also, I think, committed ourselves, and it is our right and obligation and it has nothing to do with this concession contract at all, is to invest in our airports, regardless of this concession contract, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will invest, it is our right and obligation in all our airports, not only in Nis airport, but in others. Unfortunately, we are in such a position that, as a state of Serbia, we no longer have international airports, unfortunately, but I am deeply convinced that by our policy, investment, and our relationship with Nis airport, perhaps the first one at Nis airport, we will become that and be built so that it can be one day and an international airport. That it provides all that Belgrade Airport provides, but in some lower form and as much as it needs for that part of Serbia, and it covers most of our southern part of the Republic, as well as parts of Macedonia, parts of Montenegro, parts of Bulgaria, and that Nis Airport will also serve that part and provide all opportunities for air traffic and other countries. Our right, as I said, and our obligation to invest. You say, "What will the army do?" It is not disputed, the army was always on the side of Serbian citizens, and when it comes to Nis, it certainly always listened and listened to what Nis needed and always went out to meet. At last session, I said, when we were sitting here, that in January 2017, we agreed on one thing that went so public, and I think it's very important for the city of Nis. Serbia's military has accepted that part of the barracks that is now not used "Philip Kljajic", these are old protected buildings, to build a university section, a university settlement for the town of Nis. I think it's missing the town of Nis. It is missing, since we as a state want to attract foreign investors, but it is not just necessary for foreign investors to come, we also need to have labour, we need to have technical technology centres. That's what we're doing right now, and that's what's the fundamental difference between some previous policies and this one right now. I think we should all see together how and how to put the building into operation as soon as possible, that the city of Nis gets a university, and that it is an example of how and how it can be built in a quality way, and to restore the old reputation of Nis when it comes to electricity industry and maybe that part, that segment of education, because I think there is a great potential of the city of Nis in that, given its pydgre, to its past and everything that the city of Nis and the SFJ represented, but also in the world, because it was recognized in the electricity industry. I think it's supposed to be mantra for our future work, not for us to argue with whose airport it's going to be. No one takes any airport anywhere, the airport belongs to the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, will be there and will remain there. It's just a question of how we're gonna manage it and make it even more functional than this. It's not meant to be 331 grand and jump 1300 to 1331, our goal is to get to 770,000. That's the goal, to outdo it, and to get to a million, to outdo ourselves. That won't be a problem for us if we succeed. Let's get past that. Minister Stefanovic said we 79% succeeded in the plan for this year. That should make our alarm go off if we didn't do it right, we should do it even better. It takes this year to catch up and fill not 100% but to get there and go ahead, because if we do that, we'll get to 770,000. We're away from that million, and God forbid it's a million. That I think we'll all be able to work together, if we all stand as a team, as a state behind it and have a project. Once again because of Serbian citizens, I want to say, no restrictions on the city of Nis, Nis Airport has no "Nikolo Tesla", absolutely none. Nor will the “Nikola Tesla” Airport have anything to do with the concessionaire, when it comes to investment, be taken to anyone other than “Nikola Tesla” Airport. Our idea of the whole story is to settle for 25 years, when we follow how and how the current concessionary has committed himself to managing "Nikola Tesla" airport after 25 years, what he predicted to be the ultimate result, the ultimate goal of "Nikole Tesla" is that, and we in the past 25 years, and we and the workers of "Nikole Tesla" are to follow that. It'll give them a secure job, more employees, and I'm sure they'll pay more. And we're proud of what was supposed to be the "Nikola Tesla" Airport in 1991, so unfortunately it's not because of everything that's been going on, but I think now that the government has managed to take over the primate and in this direction we're going to be going to succeed in making "Nikola Tesla" the biggest and busiest regional airport in this part of Europe, that's the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32677	Right on the replica, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32678	You've felt the moment when I'm going to say that, thank you for this answer where you say, and I'd like it to be a guarantee, because this public word here in the Assembly means something to the public, which is that everything that's going to be built on "Nikola Tesla" Airport and, with the commitments of concessionaires of that billion euros, remains registered at the airport and will remain owned by "Nikola Tesla" Airport. It's important for all of us and I hope it will be fulfilled. But with one more thing that's important in every international contract and contract, it's a matter of bank guarantees for good performance. It is the same question for you, whether they are provided and I expect us to get an answer to these questions, whether the bank guarantees for the execution of this job and this promise of investment through concessions are provided within 25 years, because unfortunately we are witnessing that these international contracts, in particular subsidies given to many of the companies in Serbia, that they entered into with investments, that their commitments have not been made, and that is the same question and responsibility in which these funds were used. That's why it's important to talk about it here, completely public and completely open. Otherwise, this call and what some previous government did or didn't do, calling for Nis to be an electoral city. It is true, Nis is a city of electronics, but it was first and foremost until the 1990s, until we entered the embargo as a state until we lost practically something that was the basis for the development of electronics in Nis, which is partnerships with both the "Symens" and "Phillips" and many of the world's companies, which was a prerequisite for the development of electronic technology, and it was only a return to the international community, economic community and technology after 2000 that precondition for new growth and new investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32679	First in line for up to two minutes, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32680	I will be very brief, given that you have asked another question that I think is very important for our citizens and also for the employees themselves, so I told you the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a team, this time with the workers of "Nikola Tesla". Why am I telling you this? It's precisely because the bank guarantees were provided and everything the concessionaire had to do. We need to have communication with workers, because in some ways they represent the state of Serbia. We want, on the one hand, them to work hard, to succeed in enabling our concessionary to do everything he planned, and, of course, to control everything he had committed to going right during and that what would be Belgrade's airport in 25 years, as he had committed to this contract, it would be at the end. In any case, any breach will be a consequence, or conconsequences, and these are all the guarantees that have been given. For this very reason, it is our desire for workers to be calm and to do their jobs, to devote themselves to their jobs, because it is a guarantee of both higher salaries and safe employment and new employment, but at the end and the appearance of the airport after 25 years as it is will remain the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32681	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment I have submitted aims to further define the subject of this law. Otherwise, this law will contribute to more effective regulations that ultimately lead to cost minimisation, which will reflect the favourable engagement of the economy. I must point out that, as far as the plan system itself is concerned, I know the one at the time of self-government socialism who was involved in planning exclusively for self-preservation, that is. He was aiming to help himself, and then we faced from 2000 to 2012, with a kind of planning of those who only looked at how to maintain themselves, and in 2011 there was a saying that – who says that we are a poor country, when we have made so many people rich. It is precisely planning something that is a good thing in the Republic of Serbia and what the previous government, especially by 2012, did not know, in fact she knew how well, but only in that part to plan how to rob the state, how to enrich themselves and nothing beyond that. They weren't interested in workers, they were part of economic resources, they weren't interested in the economy, and it was just important to quantify some kind of political activity and nothing else. Kruševac was, for example, in terms of planning, thanks to Mr. Bratislava Gasic, who came not to the mayor at the time, just rail traffic started after more than 10 years, the airport that also existed, is now an attractive land offered to foreign investors, and by 2012, if you wanted to make a good laugh, you could really just use that phrase that became a foreign investor. Kruševac had 12 acres of everything to offer in 2012 to foreign investors, and on different parcels of ar, ar and a half, a total of 12 acres, today in Kruševec we can offer 100 hectares of land to foreign investors. Not only do I rely on the city where I come from, today in Serbia and the prime minister of the German Federal province of Baden Vitermberg, and it came on a proposal from the president of the Serbian-German Chamber of Commerce, and you will agree that by 2012, the citizens of Serbia know best that by 2012, it was impossible for someone to be invited from Serbia at all by the representatives of the then-German government to visit Germany, not to mention that German representatives come here, not only German, but global, state officials, but also a huge number of companies. This is precisely the reason for the amendment and there will be an opportunity for me to further explain in the subsequent amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32683	National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32684	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, is the first of the four amendments I have submitted to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to economic growth. When it comes to economic growth, I can't help but look back at the latest World Bank data. According to the World Bank's latest regular report on the Western Balkans, presented in the offices of the international financial institution in Belgrade, the World Bank forecasts economic growth of 3% this year, 3.5% in 2019 and 4% in 2020. Serbia's public debt is estimated to fall to 56% of GDP in 2018 and in 2019 to 54.3% of GDP, which will be 52% of GDP in 2020. Last year we had 3% more employees than in 2017. What's that for? This growth came primarily from the service sector, small and large trade, where there was a creation of 30,000 new jobs. As regards industry, 23,000 new jobs were opened compared to 2016. This is due to direct investment growth, not only in Belgrade, but also outside Belgrade, which are particularly responsible for the growth of employment in the industry. As of this morning, I've been listening to the opposition's disdain for the release of data, not only from my colleagues, but also from respected ministers. I present today a World Bank report that should cheer every MP here in the hall, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, because it is about our country, about our Serbia. But it is obvious that we do not encounter such a reaction with opposition MPs, because this is the result of the work and efforts of the previous government, the current government and, of course, our President Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32685	counterpart Gorica Gajic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32686	Mr. Chairman, I believe that we have agreed and I hope that we all agree that planning represents a fundamental and initial step in order to actually have some realization in the end, and hence the adoption of a law on the planning system, which defines both strategies and programmes and concepts and current plans, and this should be one of the broadest and possible basis for the overall development of our Serbia. Of course, it should be the basis for development of both the Republic and the provinces and local self-government. That should be every plan, not just as it is in our family, so Serbia should be the goal we all aim at. Hence, this number of amendments by the ruling party that begins with the proposal – with a view to justice and economic development, equal, regional development, digitisation, etc. All the way up to 300 and some amendments, so I just don't know what the Ministers would look like if in any case you had accepted all these amendments by the ruling party. That is why I would stay with this amendment, colleague Vlahovic, who says we should focus specifically on improving economic growth through this planning system. Of course we know that only a state with a strong economy can count on it to have good health, good social policy, good education and good culture, etc. Now, the colleague has just listed some of the World Bank's criteria and data, and I'm just going to say, we of 184 countries, according to the World Bank, are at 84th place in economic development. In front of us, that I now list not just some Central American countries, there are countries in Central Asia, but with us, which is important for the region, so far are ahead of us and Montenegro and Macedonia. We, who keep saying that we are a tiger of economic development in the Balkans, should make a good analysis of why we in the region are better than BiH, and the World Bank, unfortunately, puts in this context a false state of KIM, and says that there they are, and they are ahead of us. Therefore, when this government thinks about Eurointegration and thinks that through this path Eurointegration brings comprehensive development plans, with a view to economic development, it should see what this economic development will be based on. How much we will have the freedom to develop on our way to the EU, and there has been controversy with our colleagues, our own economy, which should be based on our own industry, and there has been a lot of talk about subsidies here, which we, in general, give to foreign investors, so I have the impression that our economic development will be based on foreign companies, and that we will, and I believe that you and how much more you communicate and contact the economy, the domestic, you know what problems it is burdened with, start from not being able to reach favourable bank loans, to unfair competition, etc., that I do not list their problems. I fear that when you say – with a view to economic development, you will not take seriously enough the problem of the Serbian economy in the context of the development of the economy, i.e. in the context of the opening of Serbia to European companies, world companies that still have a privileged position here, without making a difference which business branch should be open to which companies, foreign or domestic. And you, Mr. Minister, have had a lot of sex with counterpart Mircic about our professional staffs, so you boast that it is well noted that, behold, our professional staffs are still here in some institutes. I would not quite agree that there are, and if there are, and if they are already fit, and there is no room for the economy of Serbia and the Serbian economy to be employed, you are also witnessing that young professional people, the Serbian mind, are leaving us, or leaving or hiring in foreign companies for 1000-2000 euros more than they will have in some of our domestic companies. So I ask you, when you say – with a reference to economic development, and how well you compare the data that I know you own, which we are developing in the economy, domestically, domestic capital investors, to see what it is through both tax and non-tax tax burdens on foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32687	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32688	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs are first said to the euro, not the euro. Some have not yet learned that we live in Europe, in Serbian, not in Europe, but I have no objection and that in the languages of national minorities you express yourself. I think the amendment that my colleague Vlahovic has submitted is very good and is opening some interesting topics. For example, there was a question of why we are at 84th place by development, why we are in the region just ahead of BiH, etc. I'm surprised by the colleagues who set it up, I can do it with a 19-20-year-old, but we're a little older than you know that in the '90s they were sanctions. That someone forgot, that in 1999 we were the most horrified and destroyed during the aggression against the SRJ, or Serbia. People's lives can't be compensated and they're unlimitedly valuable. But in a material sense, the greatest damage to our economic development and the standard of citizens has brought DOS, led by Vojislav Kostunica. The same Vojislav Kostunica led three states, which now exist in a different form. He was the president of the SRJ, he shut down, unconstitutional. He was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, when there was a State Community, which ceased to exist, again unconstitutional. In the end, he was Prime Minister when our southern province declared independence. These are the results that led to the economic situation found in 2012. I hear fellow MPs – why is he protesting outside Nis airport and what will be his fate? Well, let's take them outside the "Electron Industries" to see where the factories were, where the halls were, that there are now restaurants for celebrations, baptisms, weddings and everything else. Whose result is that? I think it's those who ruled until 2012. Now, those who privatised what was most valuable in Serbia, why were they selling factories for city building land, asking questions -- where are our co-operatives? What about IMT? What about the "Livnica" that supplied IMT? What about Coin? Who'd they sell them to? Whose malls are these? Whatever you caught, you ruined it. And now, when someone wants to do something, well, now comes the second sense, as my colleague Mircic likes to say. Now you know what to do. Well, why didn't you while you could? Why didn't you stop it? Now you take care of the workers, and 400,000 workers are out of work in four years. You care about young people, and 80,000 went out a year while you were in power. We've managed to reduce to 40 and keep down. That damage you've done, generations will suffer, generations. You can build a bridge, you can make a road, you can build a tunnel, but once the production continents are torn apart, and you've torn them apart, it takes decades to establish them. We need scientific institutes and their reform, which will supply the economy with personnel. There's something else that surprises me. You who represented the most open, freest liberal capitalism are now asking the question – how much money will the investee earn? I don't care about that. I'm interested in how much will the citizens of Serbia and the states of Serbia earn? Ask that question. The story of ER Serbia. Three Boeings were in their annual state, four cannibalized, torn parts from them in 2012. Now they're taking care of ER Serbia, so they're criticising whether it's a successful company or not, and in business, and this is business, you have to invest something. You're interested in net earnings. Let's add up how much ER Serbia contributes to "Nikola Tesla" and Serbia's economy, how much value added tax is there, how much income tax is there, and see if it's less or less than the state invests in either ER Serbia or in "Nikola Tesla" Airport. You'll see that the state's revenues are higher than investment. Now, another communist ideology. The state needs to run the airport. You know what, no one who took an airport to rent or a concession for 25 years, the lease is something else, the concession is investment and management, and the lease is exclusively a lease, no one will work here, to invest money without making a profit. To make a profit, he must have certain costs to the state of Serbia, to pay into our budget. It will not employ spacers here, but citizens of Serbia, whether from Belgrade or any other region, is absolutely irrelevant. These people receive salaries and also contribute to Serbia's development. So this is obviously where it revolves around a replacement of thesis and half-truths. It's the same as if you were making a final account, so you're just showing a side of the cost, not a side of the income. And with such a demagogy, you want the government led by Aleksandar Vukic in 2012, 2014 and 2016, and now Ana Brnabic, to show the failure. Whether they're successful or not, that's what citizens decide in the election. But I would be ashamed, and it seems to me that some of my colleagues don't know it, if I turned around and looked at what their parties did from Serbia to 2012. When they talk about the National Bank, when they talk about the exchange rate, then 45 dinars jumped in four years. There's no development if it's not a stable course, there's no development if inflation isn't in the planned framework, and everything was different, you were ruining everything. One more thing, Mr. Minister, from their biggest privatisation, or direct investment "Maxia Delez", the dinar did not end in Serbia. One part went to Bulgaria, one part of the money in Cyprus, one part of the money in Slovenia. Don't brag any more, you sold the property, and you showed it as an investment. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32689	Wait a minute, you and your colleague Vlahovic are both registered. Comrade Vlahovic, do you want a replica, too? Is that right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32690	Thank you, Your Honor. Very briefly, given that my colleague Arsic provided the information. As I said, you should have every MP in this room looking forward to this information we've been making since this morning. Every MP because of our country, our Serbia, and I as an economist know what kind of reforms we have had in terms of economic laws, what we have done, what painful measures we have had, fiscal consolidation, to discuss today and the other day a set of economic laws that only regulate the economic system. After three years of IMF arrangements, today we're only talking about a set of economic laws. So we should be looking forward to economic growth, every year since 2018, when it goes 3%, by 2020 to 4%. As for her colleague when she was talking about the Investment Act. The investment law is the same for both foreign and domestic investors. That's what we voted here, we all know here. Unfortunately, I have already said, we are not presenting the SNS reports, but the World Bank's reports, the IMF and everything that every citizen and MP here in the hall can find and know, but unfortunately they don't want to know because this is the result of the work of Alexander Vukic, our president, and the previous and current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32691	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gorica Gajic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32692	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think there is no need for us to get tough, especially because we at the DSS feel that one such bill on the planning system should be passed, because once and for all, we need to lay the foundations for Serbia's development in all segments and because we need to have both strategy and programmes and action plans to implement these strategies and, ultimately, to have results, that is, to compare them all. The fact is that no government has had ideal conditions for 20 years to develop the economy of the Republic of Serbia, but the fact is also that the government of Vojislav Kostunica, or the DSS government, has come at some difficult time. Nothing the DSS had made it easier for Serbia to develop economically than for the SNS. Just now we're arguing about it and we at the DSS are simply saying whether Serbia will develop at a pace, in a commercial sense, such that we can compare with some of the already medium-developed countries. Just because through European integration, our economy is waiting in some hall, while we are joining the EU, it is waiting in some hall, at the expense of foreign companies that are coming. Just to remind you, the economic development at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, i.e. GDP growth was 3.4% and five percent, because I didn't know if we were going to be talking about percentages, so I literally pulled the data straight, exact. So let's not compare and keep coming back. If we want to develop a country in a good way, we must first have a strong rule of law, strong institutions, developed democracy and public opinion. These are some three foundations on which we should work, and of course we support Serbia's economic development and support... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32693	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32694	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, violation of dignity, Article 107. Dignity was injured, Mr. Chairman, because it was said that Vojislav Kostunica, his government came at a difficult time. It's a serious violation of dignity. So, someone who only got a billion and 800 million or so, Mr. Arsic will know it best, and who spent it on painting the homes of health etc., someone who handed out everything they could, someone from whom they had seceded, and those who could not, for such a government in the shade, say that she was in some difficult time, making some difficult decisions, in my opinion, was a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. If someone has sold the entire social economy to trade chains, instead of industrial chains around major cities, trade, trade, increased one year of GDP, means, sell assets and increase GDP through trade, and say that as their success, it is a serious violation of dignity for me. In the voting day, I won't ask to vote on it, but in the future, pay attention when those who destroyed all talk about how they had a hard time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32695	Thank you, colleague Rističević. (Gorica Gajic: Rules of Procedure. ) I will enable you, of course, just a moment to answer my colleague Rističević. You know that it is very difficult to predict how and what MPs will explain the amendments they have submitted and how they will participate in the debate on the amendments. My intention was not only to prevent open debate and democratic dialogue of parliament's opinion on the relationship between the position and the opposition. From what I understand, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. My colleague Gajic, you pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32696	Article 107. Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32697	Comrade Gajic, you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32698	... since an offensive word was used. Kostunica has been told that he has sold everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32699	Just a minute. You can't point to Article 107, since he's a colleague of Risticevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32700	Article 2 Yes, Article 107(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32701	He ordered his colleague Rističević to be a member of 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32702	You didn't warn him. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, because by Article 107(2), you didn't warn when he said...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32703	Just a moment, please, I'll let you speak, just to clarify something. A colleague, Marijan Rističević, ordered a violation of Article 107 in general. You can't point to Article 107's injury again. That article has already been exposed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'll allow you to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please report again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32704	Of course, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I just want to say that I believe that colleague Risticevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32705	Just name a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32706	Article 107(2)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32707	My colleague Gajic, I don't know how to get along. I think I've been very clear and precise. A colleague, Marijan Rističević, ordered a violation of Article 107 in general. You can't point to the same member's injury again. I want to go out to meet you and let you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you think it's done, but obviously you don't want to. Do you want to try again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32708	Article 106. A colleague, Risticevic, should remember well the time when DOS came to power and led the government after the DSS government, led by Vojislav Kostunica. Col. Risticevic was then in the structures, the ruling structures of DOS. The fact that he later changed his mind and went from the ruling party to the ruling party, apparently wanting to be in power all the time... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32709	My colleague Gajic, with all due respect and respect, I tried and tried twice and tried and tried all the time to meet you. You're now pointing to article 106, before you've twice pointed to 107. Should I read you article 106? You're trying to replicate fellow Risticevic through a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I won't allow. Therefore, I give my colleague Veroljub Arsic the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32710	By amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it very interesting to have this discussion, especially, I agree, MPs should not be experts, but they must have some basic knowledge. Perhaps they should remember a little better, especially when it comes to MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia. Come on, the DS guys, we know, they've been legitimateized, but they've always pretended to be a little patriots, so a little pro-European, so a little pro-Russian, so a little pro-American, and we never knew what they were. They were only in one thing consistent – in their inconsistency. Now, these great praises that the governments of Vojislav Kostunica had a growth of 3-4%, this was based on the following: social property was sold in the privatisation process, rather than given, its real value was much higher, and that same Vojislav Kostunica allowed the initial price for the value of assets and capital to be 1/5 of the book value, which means 70 times less than real. Now, let me understand that, so the next step was – this privatisation money went to public spending, but not to do something, but to buy votes in the elections, so pensions were increased, and wages and profits were increased in the public sector, etc., and then we get to the famous 3-4% of GDP growth, but where – in the service sector, in the store in the first place. Now, that's where I could agree that we sold half the factories to make half the factories live. However, everything was sold, so that 3-4% of GDP growth actually went from imports. You sold our factories and encouraged the economies of countries in the region and now you ask what they are more advanced than we are, which have bigger economic growth. It's all true, it's all proven, there are numbers for that, I guess. There was no write-off about this famous public debt, and don't lie to the citizens of Serbia. Vojislav Kostunica gave up the legal continuity of the SFRY. On that basis, there was a redistribution of the public debt to the former members of the SFRY and to us how broken it got. So you haven't made a penny easy on us, not a penny. You're just making things difficult. I have the impression that here it is no longer a power for a political idea, a struggle for power, but a struggle to regain power and all that we have built, created, made it possible for you to live better in Serbia again. Once you change your temper, you won't, you can cut your hair, but never.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32711	My friend Kiric, do you want to? (Goran Ciric: Replica, the DS was mentioned. ( ) It is said of DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32712	Thank you. We've been listening to a debate for half an hour, very bile, and it seems that in addition to all these amounts of data we've been able to hear some conclusion was -- two thousand years behind us are the reason for our lagging behind, the economic lag compared to the region, the countries that were far behind us after development. We all remember where we were, both in front of Bulgaria and in front of Romania, not to talk about Macedonia, BiH, Montenegro, but when we look realistically, the policy of the 1990s is the essence of a policy which did not understand that it was necessary to sit at the table, discuss and find rational solutions in the future solution of the disintegrating state. We saw this on the case of Czechoslovakia and we see where both the Czech Republic and Slovakia were ready to sit down and arrange their differences, but in a civilized way. The Democratic Party in the 1990s, when it was most difficult, when it was most dangerous, spoke of peace and the need to agree and at that point, under the conditions of agreements within Yugoslavia, to achieve European integration with a much better economic start. Unfortunately, many at the time advocated a conflict policy in the Balkans, in the former SFRY, and this is the source of Serbia's current economic lagging, and this is clear and uncontestable. So, in the 1990s, no one threw bombs at us from above like in 1999, but we fought each other over this unwillingness to agree and establish politics. What am I talking about? I think it is necessary, because many have forgotten, because even now we hear messages of impatience, messages of threats, messages that have no patience to hear other people's arguments and different opinions, and this is also seen in this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32713	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32714	I'm using more time...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32715	You can't use it, you got the right to a replica. Thank you. First, a colleague called Mircic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32716	Article 106, which states clearly in 1st position that the speaker can only talk about the item on the agenda. Now we've been listening to a shorter elaborate about how it's all wrong in the 1990s, and two thousand years as if it's forgotten. What colleagues exchange with each other heavy accusations, of course, I explain all this in which the injury is, do not forget if you were in a position yesterday and the day before to watch Todorovic, the owner of the great Agrokora, who says Zoran Djindjic has allowed him to buy everything in Serbia and enter Serbia, even personally called him. Then you realize how C Market went, how all the other stuff went. Of course, the chairman always has an understanding and tolerance, but I think it's about time you turned your attention. You know, we're all mature enough here, and we've got trust from the people that we can think for ourselves. No one can tell us anything new or show what was old in their sights without us being silent. Didn't these when they came to the Friday revolution say that the issue of Montenegro is the issue of a degree of democracy, that the question of the KIM is a matter that will be removed from the agenda just to bring the Democrats who have come to NATO's pact bombs? Don't let anyone know which way you're cheating, and as chairman, I ask you to have understanding to certain limits, and then you must, as chairman, cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32717	Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I thank my colleague Mircic. In most of your presentations, I fully agree with you and I feel the same as you do that it is important that we go back to what is the point of the agenda, but you have to understand me in one part that I just didn't want to prevent the confrontation of opinions. It was a replica exchange, and it's very difficult to predict what the MPs are going to talk about, that's what I said for a moment. I thank my colleague Mircic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32718	Dear Vice President, the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107. Every day we are honored that we are to blame for the disintegration of Yugoslavia. I warn the DS gentlemen that no one else alive claims it except for the local dusters. In 1990, we, the Honorable People's MP, passed a law on the breaking of Yugoslavia, but to inform you, the United States. You want me to quote you this law? So, in 1990, in June of the month. And you know when the multiparty elections were held and who held them? Please don't ever mention it in this high house again, because we're going to open a debate about it. My party president did not speak - bomb Serbia harder, harder, Milosevic will fall. That's what your president used to say. Please don't open painful topics. Let's let the historians handle it. Once again, no Western historian claims what you claim, only domestic NATO dusters. Thank you. I'm not asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32719	I thank my colleague Atlagic. By amendment, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32720	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, apparently the amendment that speaks of economic growth has caused certain controversy in several levels, both in political and economic and social. That is why today we must not forget many details of the time that many here are condemning us by the opposition parties. Today we had the opportunity to hear that coalition partners from the time of 2005, when they spoke about the rule of law, must have forgotten how the "C market" was sold and that the PKK was sold in the cabinet of then-Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. How then Mr. Miskovic bought for cheap money all the chains of the market in Serbia and became one of the 100 members of Forbes's list. This could not have been earned anywhere, but simply from the state money, from the Republika Srpska budget, when it took the money of all Serbian citizens. It was this legal state we're talking about now, one just one, and today it's unfair, which simply allows competition, equates foreign and domestic investors and opens up the possibility of opening factories and new jobs. Then the budgets were made based on how many individuals, such as Miskovic, can earn from the budget and how many people they can hire. He could employ only 7,000 Serbian citizens who had a privileged position, and all seven million who were budget users worked in the role of those 7,000. That's what the rule of law looked like, that's what economic growth looked like. When we talk about 3.5% and 5% increase in economic growth, this is the total number, the amount of products produced compared to the previous year higher, and it refers exactly to when you're doing social, or state-owned property, so you had one Colubare that had 25 hours to work the buffer, we had the opportunity to see that the growth of energy and energy production and sales in the market and in the region of the Colubare itself amounted to 300 times more. This looked like the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008. We came to 2008 when we were selling "Mobtel" and "Telecoma" actions and we came to the conclusion that in the strategy for the development of Serbia's sustainable development, led by Mr. President Tadic, the full economy and capital of Serbia is in the sale of service activities and in the sale of property related to the telecommunications system. That's what the economy looked like. The new value was created from service activities which led Serbia to raise more than 200 loans with an interest rate of 8%, pay salaries and pensions and come to a collapse in 2012, when Mr. Vukic assumed the responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia and needed to find a model to get Serbia out of the economic collapse and to open an investment environment for economic growth on the basis of a real sustainable budget. This is the difference between those until 2012 and those who are responsible for leading the economy from 2012 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32721	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32722	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I can agree with the applicant for this amendment in one part that perhaps they were not ideal conditions for the development of RS and businesses in the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2012, but that by 2012, all governments to which they chaired had been informed, uninformed and all others had very well planned how to destroy Serbia's economy. This is evident from the exceptional results of their planning activities, and the organised semi-criminal group has destroyed 2,500 companies in the Republic of Serbia, leaving nearly 500,000 workers on the street, while some small-money and fat commission companies have sold to foreigners. It was their way of working until 2012. I agree that they may not have been ideal conditions, but here, after six years of thorough and hard work, the governments in which our coalition partner participated and as President Aleksandar Vukic, now Ana Brnabic, have gained the conditions to pass this law and, after the resolution, to stop Serbia's collapse, create good foundations for good plans and the realization of those in the future, Serbia is developing in the most ideal way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32723	Thank you. By amendment, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32724	Apparently a lot of bile, a lot of messages, a lot of lies, a lot of hate, and I think that's all something that obviously runs the atmosphere that many of us remember in the '90s. Since we don't want to remember those 90s and ourselves in that role in the '90s, I can see that it's easy to accuse others, because most often it's about Zoran Djindjic, these messages that the Democrats of the '90s or 1999s used to sow locators, what we heard in the last debate, call on NATO bombers, I call on you all, I call on you, to tell you where we were in those days and what we did, and how we contributed to the defence of the country in those moments. I'll remind you when it comes to development, since it was about the development of the '90s and what they brought us in 2000. Public debt participation in GDP in 2000 was more than 200%. Who did this? What governments? What authorities? What parties that participated in the government from 1990 to 2000? I'll also remind you of that, since the arrows are mostly directed towards the DS. Do you know how many years DS has been in power in Serbia? From 2001 to 2003. With Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic for exactly two years. Let Zivkovic be a year and less than a year, that's three years. From 2007 to 2012, five years, a total of eight years in 28 years of multilaterals in Serbia. So, from 1990 to 2018 DS in coalition governments, never on its own, first with 18 DOS parties, and then from 2007 to 2012 in the coalition and with the SPS and with DSS and with some other parties,alitional and your partners and with those sitting in your benches today. So that's those eight years out of a 28-year-old multiparty. So, once again, eight years of responsibility for the DS of 28-year-old multi-party in Serbia. We can talk about this division of responsibility, what they wear in the '90s, especially from 1990 to 2000, with what economic consequences for this country and for this entire space. Since this amendment is about that, to encourage economic growth, I tell the applicant of this amendment that I will support and that I will vote in favour of this amendment, if it truly meets all these conditions that you have been talking about for an hour. I ask you, too, will you vote in favour of the amendment your colleague filed? Here, I call upon you to come out now and say that this amendment is accepted, because all these arguments that we have heard from all of you in that support, in the arrows, in the arrows poisonous to the opposition, are something we have heard from you. Once again, I will support my fellow Members by wanting your amendment and looking forward to the results of this amendment as you have listed them, but I know and I doubt that will unfortunately not happen. Once again, Serbia has been growing 1.8% of GDP for the four years since 2014, at least known data. We are not at the very beginning, but we are the last in the region after GDP growth. It is one of your parameters that you have been calling for during this great growth of the economy in Serbia during this period. Once again, I will support your amendment, looking forward to achieving these results that you have suggested that it can bring, but I will be convinced if your majority votes for this amendment, and now the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister say they accept your amendment, and here I will vote for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32725	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32726	According to Article 103, the very fact that in public and in this house lies has been violated. To remind you of the chairman, for the sake of full truth, it cannot be fooled by the public that in the 1990s DS was not in some way in the coalition power with Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS. We remember the late Slobodan Radulovic, we remember that Djukic, who directly entered the ministerial chair in the government in the 1990s. It's the easiest thing to do now. Secondly, when everything in the past is mentioned, then we must bear in mind what one of our colleagues said – all the world's public is already very aware of the facts, the truth, what happened about Serbia's bombing and the attack on Serbia. There's only one group that's still on, and I think she's already disgusted herself, because for years when she gets up in the morning while she's shaving, she just spits in Serbia. You know, it's interesting for a month, but when you do it for years, then you throw up on yourself. I have to use that kind of expression because they don't have any other expression left. You know, hating your country, hating so much of your people, when everyone admits, when everyone is spraying the ashes that they've caused the bombing, that they've put pressure on KIM, and now they're back to infinity. Only those who, like the late General Kapičić and Josip Broz, opened up the Goli Island, forced those patriots and those who told Vojislav Seselj – take him away and do not return him, as these today, in addition to all the facts, all the true arguments claim that Vojislav Seselj committed a crime in an area where there was no war fact. It's for shame. It's simple to be ashamed, not to deceive the public. If they need to get a diary, they can find someplace else to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32727	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32728	Since we have been invited to state what we think of the amendment proposed by a colleague, here I am telling you, I will vote for that amendment. It's not a problem. Whoever's in this room, in the voting day, could already see that we have absolutely no problem even voting, in addition to explaining them, pleading on our amendments or amendments to our colleagues. Anyway, it served as a kind of excuse to say all sorts of things here and say something that I absolutely don't think should, because it's not good. On the subject of the role of individual parties, which individuals, political actors, however you like, in the '90s, I don't need to waste time again to explain things, but these things are known. So it is known true, and that is true, that some who today represent themselves as the largest possible opposition in everything in Serbia, or in then-SFRJ, participated in the government by giving, in time, two federal ministers, to negotiate with the regime, which today cannot, after a successful campaign, seem to me, under the slogan "fair", to share that power. So, the one who negotiated to be prime minister in that government and that policy at the time, not only because he asked too much, lost his moral right to say afterwards that something was being fenced. What were their original beacons, that's what their founders say. I think I read in their Sundays what Chavoski said about them, that in their original programme, they tied themselves to the right of the Serbian people to live in the state they wanted and that they could round up their historical territories, that if some others were separated, the Serbian people had the right to remain part of another continent. Today, these people, whose original party program, are declaring such attitudes what? It's what they say about war-squawking. It's about people who don't want to be correct, don't want to be fair, say that some things are right and that you can't accept, just because someone serves you that these things aren't right, because they're stronger and bigger, and he sees it that way, that you accept that you're spilling mud on yourself. That's not what they've always thought. It's not honorable that they're being set up differently today. About sharing power with different, yes, we've talked many times. It is not right for them to be fenced from it today and say: We have nothing to do with it. How many times, in the mid-1990s, their MPs, their representatives voted in favour of the federal budget. What if it wasn't a couple of excellency proofs that they were involved in something, they were supporting something. Why are they fenced out of it now? What is controversial today at one point in support of what you consider to be a state and national interest? Other things should be fenced. So, not to defend themselves from being quoted as saying that their representatives once supported the dishonest treatment of their country, but to be fenced from it today. That would be a fair and correct approach today. We all know who said it was pointless in 1999 to stop the bombing campaign if it doesn't lead to a change of government in Belgrade. It's not something that can serve a man with pride, but that's what's said and we know who he is. When you get to 2000 years and talk about debt and a story about conditions, some like to talk a lot about absolute numbers. Those who love to talk about absolute battles can't say in absolute terms how much they owed at the moment they took over the state. So that, in the same absolute value, they say how much debt they've left that country, not how it suits us. Sometimes it suits us to talk about absolute amounts, and sometimes in relative terms. If they like absolutes, they say, but they won't. Why? Because it doesn't suit them, because it shows a terrible fact that even though they had a lot to privatize and sell, they did, and many billions thus provided despite their write-offs, and in some billions of accounts, they left an absolute debt greater than those decades of wars, that decade of sanctions, that decade of decline. So what does that say about their success? Is that why they avoid boasting about these absolute numbers? Where is Serbia today and they ask for its growth? Serbia is in years when there is a positive growth in continuity. Let's say it's the smallest in the world, let's say it's 0.01, if positive is better than their minus 3.1. Don't let us go back on the subject at all, it's pointless, and it's continuous and it's positive. You like to be measured in the region. Take a look at the World Bank research done by counterpart Tomic, co-worker Vlahovic and counterpart Arsic, Serbia contributes to employment. The whole region today has something to raise thanks to Serbia's employment in the last three or four years. Compare Serbia, then, by that parameter, with the surrounding countries. What's it gonna be? He'll be fine. It will show some rankings there that Serbia is extremely successful at regional level as well. It is a shame to ignore good results for your country because of the petty political benefits. It's bad when these results are misjudged. But to fall into a trap, to call yourself the worst, and not to blame yourself for the accident others caused you two decades ago, and not for it to be the real fault, that's the poison zone we were talking about. In a trap to be the generator of that kind of poison towards, according to its own country, it must not be allowed by anyone. In the first place, the MP, but no citizen of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32729	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. (Goran Ciric: Replica. You don't have a basis for replication, you can do it by amendment. Just a moment before you heard from your colleague Jovanovic, because you first referred the question to the majority MPs whether they would support the amendment, I now have to allow them to answer the asked question. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32730	I thank the chairman. Speaking of amendments that are affirmative in any case, then we are obliged to comment on something that has arisen as a result of a very unprincipled discussion conducted by individual MPs, or more specifically, to say one MP in this assembly, or at today's debate. Mr. Chairman, it is offensive, it is extremely offensive for the citizens of Serbia, primarily the contemporaries of the 1990s, and it is most of all right here and most offensive among the citizens of Serbia that Serbia is being accused of the disintegration of Yugoslavia. It is offensive that someone is calling for wartime Hague politics, a policy that led to one single goal, to preserve one state and to preserve the Serb people within that country and to keep the Serb people single, not torn and not oppressed. If that was the goal of the amendment to abuse historical facts, then we cannot allow it. The historical facts are such and unmistakable that we simply have to tell everyone the truth, and the truth is the following – sanctions that existed in the 1990s are not a product of anything other than what represented policymaking, and this is global policy against Serbia and against Yugoslavia. We must not allow those who have led to five-octobaric changes with promises that were grandiose, which were promises that would lead to a bright future, to total destruction, led to the greatest monster on the territory of the former republics of the SFRY and a direct threat to Serbia. Why? Because none of the promises made has been fulfilled, but literally none, or improving population standards, or increasing wages, or bringing in investments. What have we experienced? We've experienced the opposite. We've had a tendency to show up at tens of thousands of companies in bankruptcy proceedings as bankruptcy debtors, to wake up through privatisations for selling the biggest giants that we're reviving today, which this government is trying to save from FAP and beyond. We have experienced a situation where just for the sake of one such senseless and monstrous policy, especially economic policy, those who have represented the leaders of the five-octobarian government are enriched. To whose harm? At the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today we're listening to the tiaras about whether or not someone was running a wartime policy. This is best known by citizens of Republika Srpska who say the Dayton Agreement is a guarantee of the existence of Republika Srpska. Wens-Oven's plan is not a war crimes policy but a peace policy that led to one single goal, which is the goal of stopping crimes, anyone making them, ending war horrors and establishing peace. Plan Z-4 in the Republic of Krajina is not a war policy. So what are we talking about when we're listening to something that has nothing to do with the truth and even less about history? In the end, I just want to look back at the amendment one more time. My colleague Vlahovic really hit the point. We have reason not only to support and vote in favour of this amendment, and there is no reason to doubt whether it will vote or not, whether it is political demagogy or not, whether it is political or not. This amendment is something that is considered affirmative, progressive, and is indeed for support and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32731	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32732	This debate is going on. It is clear to me and possibly the good part of the public that there is a need to make a historical review and look at October 5th without completely forgetting the 90s. I think it's important precisely from our responsibility in which we can't repeat the mistakes that we've been making back in the '90s. I'm talking about the failures of unpreparedness to make the dialogue of the then most important presidents of the Republic of SFRY who have had their tours, many older ones remember, in the capitals of the Republic, and have failed to come out with some agreement that will mean peace in this area. We know how much that conflict cost us in the Balkans in the 1990s. We know how much our current economic status has cost us, and each other is basically the result of what we experienced in the 1990s. It's true, in 2000, they weren't great, but a colleague invited us to talk about absolute numbers, so I'm going to talk about these absolute numbers in which we're going to define, and I'm not avoiding what happened between the '90s, 2000 and 2012. In 2000, the public debt amounted to 15 billion euros, here is an absolute number, over 200% of GDP, since the level of GDP in 2000 was slightly above seven billion euros, and today it is about 35 or something more, five times higher. Do you need any information that can illustrate whether today was better or better in 1990 or 2000 in particular? So in 2000, seven billion euros in GDP, 15 billion euros in public debt, the participation of public debt in GDP is more than 200%. In 2012, again in absolute numbers, in June when you took responsibility and formed the government, that public debt also amounted to 15 billion euros and participation in GDP at that time was about 45-46%, at the limit of what defined the Budget and Level of Possible Debt and Public Debt Participation of 45%. These are absolute numbers that we don't have to discuss, of course, by interpreting them by different people in different ways. Once again, this is an invitation to all of us in politics, in public speech, not to send those arrows of hatred because, unfortunately, two days ago, we had a message from one of our MPs, a colleague, who threatened his two colleagues to double their activities for whom he was convicted and that he would slaughter them. Here, sit down one of those colleagues. Unfortunately, I have not heard the condemnation of such threats and such words. Here is the police minister and I call on him to take measures to protect our colleagues who have experienced this kind of threat that I do not consider harmless, and at least are harmless to all of us in the public of Serbia because I do not want to repeat these kinds of mistakes, because we have listened to such threats in the 1990s and we have seen the consequences for all people in this area. I'm fighting because we're talking about it openly. I urge you all to respond with sufficient levels of solidarity, humanity in defense of the integrity and security of each and every one of us individually. These are the reasons why I want to talk to you about the increased level of responsibility when we talk about all these topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32733	Col. Rističević, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure or an amendment? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32734	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm re-advertising Article 107, violation of dignity. The height of the debt is indicated here, which injures dignity. It's not said that we were left with 1.1 billion dollars a year, which means five years from now, 5.5 billion. It is not said that a set of Serbian businesses has been spent, a violation of dignity of 6.7 billion euros. Donor support worth 4.5 billion is not said to have been spent. It is not said that forgiveness of the London and Paris Club's debt worth more than 4.5 billion was spent, a total of 15.5 billion. So they didn't leave a 17 billion debt, but with this 15.5 that was the 32.5 billion they spent at a time when 51 billion were exported from the country, thanks to low-priced privatisations. This is about the '90s, which is also a violation of dignity. It wasn't me, my party was peaceful, wrote letters to Ratko Mladic and encouraged conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, under the name of the so-called Sokola, to defend what was meant to defend. I didn't put Perisic and Grubs in the federal government. I didn't put Radulovic in the government of Slobodan Milosevic, too. That's what they did. I'm not a special advisor at the post office. The post office is a public enterprise controlled by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not a special advisor for 156,000, I'm a previous speaker. He's the government, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32735	Thank you. Col. Rističević, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32736	Article 104 when an MP makes an insult to another colleague. A short time ago, we heard an insult brought out in untrue and incomplete public information, when a colleague said the MP threatened two fellow MPs. The public knows, Vojislav Seselj has repeatedly reiterated after an unfair verdict in a second-degree procedure that the crime he was sentenced to ten years in prison will again be carried out, and it will be more intense. Why? For those who do not understand very well, who are well-intentioned under the allegations, if there was no crime and there is no evidence of this crime, what is more logical than to have Vojislav Seselj address the UN tribunal and the teams who have assisted the UN all-out tribunal in such an ironic way, in order to invent that it was the exorcising of Croats from the territory of the Republic of Serbia? We all know it wasn't there. The fact that someone does not understand this irony expressed by Vojislav Seselj, humiliating again, for who knows which way, The Hague tribunal, as well as those officers who ran to Hrtkovci, invented and paid various witnesses, and made it clear to them, that he would personally commit a more serious crime on them by exchanging the property of Serbs and Croats from the Croats simply providing a roof over his head, as well as any quality, it does not matter. But the bottom line is this: both MPs who were threatened by Vojislav Seselj continue to be financed from the same sources. Let them say how much money they receive to spit on Vojislav Seselj, and sometimes, when they find Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32737	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32738	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Djordjevic, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, having in mind the importance and need to place strong foundations in the frameworks of our society and its social context in the process of implementing an initiative for inclusive citizenship education, and in order to insist on the state in order to make a further effort to obtain a positive epilogue, I will continue with the practice of insisting on action in this direction, wherever there is room for incentives and affirmation in the legal frameworks and sequences. Namely, the proposed amendment, as well as the amendments that I have proposed to this bill, aim to complement and compact the already established items in quality and quite studio-written bill. Inclusive education is a necessary step in the development of a society based on the human rights of all citizens. The basic function of education is to prepare for life in the community. If someone starts to be educated in terms of isolation in a scarce, uniform, isolated and limited space of experience, then the person will be denied the possibility of ever being equally involved in the life of the community, but the community will also be denied in that case to support those who need it. Inclusive education is part of a broader single society strategy that promotes the creation of a world of peace, tolerance, sustainable use of resources, social justice, in which all and everyone's fundamental rights and needs are met. And in order for that to happen, it is necessary to detect obstacles and to seek solutions to their overcoming, in local culture, in policies, in practice and to provide the necessary assistance and resources. When we talk about the proposal for a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, I must say that the work of local self-government in the town of Nis is taking place on four tracks, which is – investment support, strategic planning, improvement of business environment and projects. Finally, I must say, the chairman, Mr Milicevic, is very important, even most important, in what state and status we found the city of Nis in 2012. I think it's incomprehensible and incomprehensible to minimize that fact. It's like keeping your home budget -- if you're over-indebted and you have a black hole in your budget, you've got a mess in your finances, public finances. I choose words to describe in public-communal enterprises. I'm going to mention, say, the health home that inherited 158 million debt and one-and-a-half employees' salary. So you had to put all this into some state of mind, normal, so you could go ahead and on sound grounds to build a house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32739	Thank you. My colleague Pavlovic, do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32740	I would support a colleague's amendment and this inclusive education, and at all any kind of education that can be made under any law, even this planning law. But we've been talking about two members for days, so we'll probably be talking about two members of the law now. We talked about two members of personal and lifelong education. I would really like to support what my colleague said, however, I believe that a representative example of this lifelong education and personal training should be the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But I've been here for a little over a year, and I've had a traineeship to say it in some company, and I haven't acquired any knowledge here that can use a decent man. So the knowledge that I've acquired here and that is absolutely unusable to me is -- as my colleagues are insulted, as false is said, as it is possible even to threaten someone, as war crimes are said to be not understood by irony. I can't understand that war crimes and irony can be in a relationship with each other at all. So I would ask that all of what my colleague said and what we talked about at the last session, about personal and lifelong education, I see here in what form it is the personal and lifelong education of MPs and that we are, I say, that representative example to the citizens of Serbia that this knowledge here is shown at the highest level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32741	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to Article 1 of this Law an amendment aimed at undermining the importance of planning for the development of a public health system. It is known that when we talk about planning several important elements. First, personnel, then space, equipment, consumption and, of course, standard employees in the public health system. If we analyze all these elements that we expect will be the subject of the implementation of this law before us, it is clear that in the previous period we had to put out fire in many segments. Let's just remember that two years ago, the average life-time average of health care employees was about 55 years ago. Of course, when we talk about this element, the perspective of health development was questioned. Let us remember the condition of our facilities, clinical centres, hospitals, health homes. So that second element was also very debauched. If we're talking about equipment, let's also remember what was missing from it in our health care facilities. Of course, and when we talk about spending, let's remember that we went through one period when there was no penicillin in our healthcare facilities, unfortunately. So the adoption of such a law is very important from the perspective of developing a health care system in Serbia, because we will be able to plan all of these elements that I just counted. Any element affecting the health care system must no longer be allowed to be abandoned. At the very end of the line, I also see this law as a wish of the state, as the efforts of the Government and the National Assembly to finally introduce a planning system, a system in which we as a society will know clearly what we want and which will introduce, at least a few principles such as rationality, justice, evenness, etc., in the development of all segments of our society. I hope that most of my colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly will support this law and that finally, thanks to it and its realization, we will get the state as a good host who will have rationally available resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32743	I thank my colleague Jovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia in order to further define the subject matter of this law. Given that this law, which is before us, regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. improving public policy systems, medium-term planning, planning documents, i.e. The kind of content and mutual coherence of the planning documents, I felt that the subject matter of this law should be particularly linked to the improvement of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. Why does this matter to us? This is primarily important to us because the Republic of Serbia has opened up and is in negotiations with the EU on Chapters 23 and 24 where Chapter 23 applies to the judiciary and fundamental rights, including judicial reform and anti-corruption policy. But what is more important for the Republic of Serbia than this first reason that I have stated, is that the judicial plan system should finally lead to a judge's office being able to do it with dignity. So, if we were to create a new justice promotion system, we need to first see what the state of resources in the judiciary is like. Whether judges are sufficiently trained to make independent judgments, whether judges are sufficiently trained to fully implement the Law on Electronic Administration, which we have recently adopted, in what state of the building where trials take place, what offices the judges are in, whether it is necessary to plan-investment in these buildings, and on the other hand, if the state allows these planning systems to do their functions with dignity and judges on the other hand to do what is their basic duty and obligation, which is that independent and independent judges should always and once again insist on the full independence of the courts and finally resolve the illegal privatisations that are behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32745	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Here's a colleague of the Palalics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot of these days have been debated whether we need a law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia at all, whether we need any planning in the country at all. I want to say that this is exactly how one law shows how seriously the state is thought about and how much after one period when the state is completely destroyed, when all its institutions have been degraded, underestimated, humiliated, is beginning to seriously think and plan. I'm not saying this by chance and not without concrete examples in the previous period when it was shown that the state was functioning and that the planning documents and laws and decisions were being made, I can say, completely dissuasive in that government. Take an example of the Government from 2008 to 2012 which declared decentralisation as one of its main objectives. Then there was a lot of talk about decentralisation, and that's a typical example of why we need one of these laws on the planning system. Minister Mladjan Dinkic then said we needed decentralisation, while decisions were made to reduce funds to local self-government. When it comes to regional development, at the same time a law on the abolition of courts in certain municipalities was passed, and thus investors themselves fled these municipalities. There was simply one complete mess in the government, no coordination, no planning, and that's why we came to the situation that the institutions were destroyed, that the state was in charge, that a reform of the judiciary had been carried out, that the judicial system had completely devalued, that the state had become a prey and that they had been employed solely by party principle and that in every possible way the state had been on its knees. This law brings together the coordination of planning. This law shows that the state is a single system and that all public policies must be harmonised and only so can the state be strong and only in this way can we move towards new economic development and attract new investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32747	On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here's a colleague of Yokic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32748	Dear Chairman, Minister, we have come to the point in our economic development when we have to plan for the long run, we have to make three-year and five-year plans, as we used to do in the '80s. The time behind us was what it was. We must turn to the new role of the Republic administration or public administration that must be the creator of public policy. This public policy must be in line with budget planning. It is necessary to bring all entities involved in planning and economic development into line, I mean public administration of the Republic, local administration, I mean local communities, all the way to the citizen himself, and all that to make it better for the citizens and to have more efficient and faster economic development. Especially for efficiency in this economy, politics, the role of the government is very important. The government has shown this by forming an e-Government and Information Technology Office. I was saying that it was done so well that the right people were chosen, that the initial results were so successful and visible, that our Office for e-Government and IT received the UN World Prize, which is guaranteed that e-Government would contribute to making this economic development even more efficient, which I was talking about in my amendment. That's why we need to open up the open data market. The open data market today is a major raw material of IT industry, and we have to continue to take account of this development and eGovernment, and it will be guaranteed that every day we will have better results and that citizens will live better and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32749	National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32750	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill, which is said to add attitude 2, which reads: "The plan system afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the stability of the dinar course." This law in Article 1 regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems and medium-term planning, type and content of planning documents which, in accordance with their respective competences, propose, adopt and implement participants in the planning system. The reason for the adoption of such a law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government covering all key aspects of social and economic development policy and regional and spatial development, with optimal use of budgetary resources, ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia, including autonomous provinces and local self-government. This law achieves an efficient planning system, particularly to know what is planned in terms of public policies. With this law, we achieve joint public policy planning, but also the realisation of the planned, so that we help develop poorly developed and undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32751	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP general, Dr Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32752	Thank you very much. "The plan's system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities." Article 1 defines what is regulated by the planning systems of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. management of public policy systems and medium-term planning. We know that public policy implies the course of action of the Republic of Serbia and the course of operation of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government. By preparing the amendments, I have carefully analysed this bill and I believe that it solves many accumulated problems and goes to meet the needs of the present, so that there is no threat to future generations' ability to meet their own needs, even on the contrary, setting them a great basis for future progress. The establishment of a plan system, among other things, allows for continued economic growth and long-term better use of resources, which is certainly due to a reduction in poverty. The plan system law allows for the monitoring of current trends and requirements, and most importantly, solves problems from the past, such as polarisation of developed and undeveloped areas, where the population and other regional imbalances that have become increasingly expressed every day. Therefore, the adoption and application of the Law on the Plane System is determined and implemented by public policy, with a view to establishing an effective planning system and a stimulating regulatory framework at all levels, which is the only correct approach if we want to make fundamental and systemic progress, and thus affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities, which is further defined in the tabled amendment to Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32753	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32754	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment underlines the importance of development issues. Development is closely linked to overall economic opportunities in the country and, of course, close to the issue of employment, or production issues. Today, during this assembly debate, several times a question has been asked what is possible in Serbia to produce today, for which we have capacities, knowledge and opportunities. Well, indeed the fact is, a lot of things Serbia today can really, really, a lot more than what people usually have in mind when they talk about production in our country. The present minister didn't do anything wrong. Serbia today can export small planes, and it does. In response to the news that someone commented today, there was one company that exported two planes, two only in the United States, total, it seems to me, it is – more than 160 to different parts of the world. Fifty countries are at stake. That is indeed possible in Serbia. It's a reality. But pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, it's about the private sector and exactly where we want to achieve the best possible effects, that's to encourage a private initiative, that's where these things happen. It's no fantasy, no fairy tale. That's possible. And, yes, there are also scientific institutes that do serious things today, that work with modern technologies. Yes, there are private institutes in that direction. And, yes, where necessary, Serbia today has the means to encourage these good processes, among other things, to encourage subsidies. That the fact that these programmes are not only based on what the letter of the law says, but also in practice with equal respect for both domestic and foreign investors, someone has asked a question – give relations. Official reports last year say -- a total of about 180 such foreign capital programmes, or about 150, if I'm not mistaken, for the original domestic. So, as you can see, and some formal, dry statistics say that there are no understatements of each other to each other. In this way we are also increasing employment, we are also reducing public debt in those relative relations, and even in absolute relations, just before some did not want to give information to the end, those 17.7 billion public debt at the end of 2012, which was all just a bad result, today will be able to overcome, and that relative relationship is falling another year in a row, much earlier than anticipated, and Serbia is really becoming a successful place, a good place for life, all the opposite of the failed DOS palace as it once was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32755	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32756	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 1. The draft law stipulates that this law regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems and medium-term planning, the type and contents of the planning documents, which are proposed, adopted and implemented in accordance with their respective competences by participants in the planning system, the mutual coherence of the planning documents, the process of establishing and implementing public policies and reporting obligations on the implementation of the planning documents, as well as the subsequent application of the obligation to carry out an analysis of the effects on regulations and to evaluate the effects of those regulations. I have submitted an amendment adding Article 1 to Article 2 of the plan system of the Republic of Serbia afirming the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of judicial institutions. Certainly, for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, the functioning of the judicial system and the work to improve judicial institutions is very important. To this end, Serbia has brought a rational strategy for judicial reform for the period from 2013 to 2018, followed by a phase of improvement, i.e. precise definition of the adopted legal framework, institutional and professional strengthening of the capacity of newly formed institutions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, the Judicial Academy, as well as the integration of the judicial reform process with the European integration process. The strategy is a response to the challenges of improving the justice system and has shown the state's willingness to respond to citizens' demands for respect for the rule of law and an independent, impartial, responsible and effective judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32757	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32758	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the planned system of the Republic of Serbia is promoted by the management of public policy systems and medium-term planning, types and contents of planning documents proposed, adopted and implemented by participants in the planning system, mutual compliance with the planning documents, the process of establishing and implementing public policies and reporting obligations on the implementation of the planning documents, as well as the subsequent application of the obligation to carry out an analysis of the effects on regulations and to evaluate the effects of these regulations. However, a member of this bill does not specify how planning will be carried out, i.e. how the planning documents will be used to develop the Republic of Serbia. The amendment complements a member of this bill, which accurately defines that one of the tasks of the plan system of affirmation of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, is better access to economic resources. In addition to the other principles that are closer to determining how the planning documents work, the exploitation of economic resources is one of the starting bases for the establishment of a planning system that sets objectives, sets out public policy priorities, or plans measures and activities to reach them in the framework of its competence and in relation to its functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32759	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32760	Thank you, Chairman. In front of us is a very important period, a period of drawing up a further plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary to set priorities in the development of the Republic of Serbia, as regards the use of EU funds and development funds to help us. As a country that is patiently and well on its way into the EU, many doors are opening and we want to make our business environment as attractive as possible for investors and therefore have the opportunity to use European funds. The heads of the town of Zrenjanin recognized the positive effects of cross-border co-operation with Romania and the use of IPA funds, the city of Zrenjanin, donated to the Zrenjanin Police Administration fire trucks and auxiliary boats worth 500,000 euros. This is an outstanding example of the police work project in the community that Minister Stefanovic is talking about, and I urge other local self-governments to follow this example. We're doing a great job fighting crime. His social presence rate is getting smaller. However, we also need to take care of these emergency situations that may be caused by some elemental disasters. I must, among other things, point out that the Zrenjanin Youth Office has exceptional co-operation with the MUP, the Zrenjanin Police Administration, as well as the Gendarmeria. They organize together many trainings, educations, event simulations, which makes us more secure and somewhere, what is commendable throughout this story, is that many humanitarian games are held that are mostly magazine characters. It is commendable when you have a team that is parallel to education, health care, security and economy, so I submit this amendment that will complement the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32761	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32762	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the provision of Article 1 of the proposed Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia has been established by law governing the planning system of the Republic of Serbia through the regulation of formats and mandatory content of different planning documents, the provision of security and public policy integration, the obligation to monitor and evaluate adopted public policies and regulations, the establishment of a single information system, as well as the obligation to carry out consultations when making documents of public policies and regulations. Such a defined object of the law aims to establish an effective, transparent, coordinated system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The proposed amendment, which adds item 2, further defines the subject matter of the law and refers to a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rights of displaced persons. Dear colleagues, conflicts in the region have led the Republic of Serbia first in Europe in the number of refugees and displaced persons. After NATO aggression in 1999 and KFOR's entry into the KIM area, more than 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians were forced to leave their residences, while an additional 20,000 people were displaced in the March pogrom in 2004, noting the fact that, despite the international community's presence, there are no adequate return security conditions, nor is access to rights secured, so that a negligible number of displaced persons has returned in the past period, less than 5% of which achieved a sustainable return. This migration has led to a new burden on Serbia, which already contained more than half a million refugees from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with different entities at international and national level, has provided refugees with permanent, sustainable and appropriate solutions through access to all rights, services and resources on the same basis as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the internally displaced persons with effective improvement of living conditions in the course of migration and full social inclusion. In this context, I am apostrophysing the fact that in order to provide reception and care for refugees and displaced persons, the Republic of Serbia has provided more than 260m euros from its own budget, 42m for housing in collective centres and social contributions, 72m for health care and 150m for education. In addition to thousands of refugees and internally displaced persons, the Republic of Serbia has shown its humanity and respect for international standards towards more than a million migrants from Asia and Africa who have crossed the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for those currently located in reception centres for asylum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32763	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32764	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a series of proposals on amendments and amendments to the law on financial importance that Serbia as a country needs to adopt in order to become an equal member of the community of European peoples, which will allow for more effective work, results and importance in applying them. The draft law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia is set out as a very important and reason for the adoption of this law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government covering all aspects of social, economic and development policy and ensuring that growth and development are determined and the effectiveness of implementing EU accession. I submit an amendment to Article 1. The draft law and I add the position that reads – the plan system afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the judiciary. A great effort has been made by our president, our government to rise from the bottom, and they have succeeded. Serbia has its goal, priority and results that it can praise. Citizens sought work and agreed to heavy austerity measures to rise on a scale higher, to make our country better and to live in it better. Serbia works and builds and doesn't want to go back. We're going down a better path and forwards. We managed to create stability, preserve it, because stability, economic, regional and political conditions are for new investments. Without stability, there would be no foreign or domestic investors. Stability is the first and necessary measure towards the future. It led to the creation of new factories, new jobs. In the period from 2014 to 2016 alone, 124 thousand new jobs have been opened, which has allowed for a better life, the standard of our citizens. Today, it has an international reputation, respect for our country, which is independent and sovereign, which is believed and who is a reliable partner to its friends. That it is thus confirmed by investments from regions, Europe and the whole world. Serbia is becoming a significant regional factor. We have attracted seven billion euros in foreign investment over the past three years, and now we are announcing two very significant investments in the automotive industry, which is in Cačka and Vojvodina, and thus opening up a space for new jobs. Therefore, the benefit of investors is obvious and certain, on the one hand, of jobs, and on the other hand, all this leads to the economic growth of our country. The importance of all this is stable currency and low inflation, for which both the NBS and the governor are important in addition to the Serbian government, and Serbian citizens have the security and ability to plan and think about their future. The National Bank of Serbia has withdrawn the license for the work of "Yugobanks" AD Kosovo Mitrovica due to liquidity, as the bank has not met the conditions prescribed by the NBS, assets and liabilities, as well as the taken over and employed workers have taken over the Bank's "Postal Savings Office" so employees and clients have received their relief. It's proof of how much our president and government think about every single individual and survival and survival on KIM. We know that the greatest burden lies with our president, so we are grateful for his peace and stability, and the workers and employees of the "Yugobans" are grateful because they have continued their work and have the opportunity to continue to provide their families and their survival. With that stability, we go into the future, build and raise living standards and improve our systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32765	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32766	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Planning System Act, which aims to further define the subject-matter of this law. If we are talking about a planned, thoughtful, realistic and above all sustainable development of all our regions, all our districts in the Republic of Serbia must bear in mind all segments that allow and provide for exactly this kind of process, above all, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the local self-government, the state system, which is efficient, the legislation, what we plan and write through projects. The cell is made up of parts and they must function immaculately. It has been shown in recent years that these are critical points and during the reform processes, we are putting on these points an accent and there is a reform of the state administration. The goal is to make the state administration efficient, to work at as little cost as possible and to actually be a service to citizens and to do everything possible to make it possible to work in industrial areas, to develop and create preconditions for development and to have foreign investors come to us to create new jobs. All these processes needed above all will, the will to address problems, to deal with problems, and to identify them and to get rid of them. Through one particular example, and this is what all local self-governments had as a task, it was actually a translation of parent books into electronic form, it could actually be seen that the municipalities had ceilinged and stagnated for years and failed to perform their tasks. In particular, the municipality of Trstenik has introduced only 5% of such parent books into electronic form from 2009 to 2016, we are cited as a bad example. However, with the arrival of SNS, the acquisition of equipment and the recruitment of personnel has been completed. We've come to 80% and that's a clear indication that with a good organization, good will things can start and actually change. All of our reforms, all of our efforts are always recognized and commended. With all these reform processes and the laws that we are changing, with the maximum use of our potential and the spending of budgets, we can indeed achieve results. We are witnessing that earlier regimes have invested exclusively in politically similar municipalities, while the rest remained neglected and neglected. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic are doing now is exactly what we need. It invests in all corners evenly, invests in education, invests in health care and reconstruction itself, but also builds new facilities and, most importantly, works to bring investors and create new jobs. So, I always stress that, with one coordinated, planned, above all, household planning we can hope for the development and recovery of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32767	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32768	We're continuing today's work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that the appearance of the death of MP Zoran Krasic, a case in Article 88, paragraph 8. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, which suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 of Article 3 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point 8 and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the term of office has ceased before the time of his election, MP Zoran Krasic, on the day of his death. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32769	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, which I consider to be complete and comprehensive if it were in position 2. _Other Organiser The proposed law regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems and medium-term planning, the type and contents of the planning documents proposed, adopted and implemented by participants in the planning system, the mutual compliance of the planning documents, the process of determining and implementing public policies and obligations, reporting on implementation of the plans, and the subsequent application of the obligation to carry out an analysis of the effects on regulations and on the evaluation of the impact of the same regulations. Personally, I believe that the wholeness of this article would be comprehensive if, under Article 2 of its full content, the process of digitisation was covered. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a time of digitization. The number of digital devices, systems and applications currently affecting our lives is very and very large and there is no end to the list of new ones. Digitalisation is a priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia as a first-class social process, not just as a simple technical and technological development. The advantage for the adoption of this law is the need to establish an efficient transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government, covering all key aspects of social and economic development policy and regional and spatial development with optimal use of budgetary means, ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia and the digitalisation of public administration and complete state apparatus, both the Republic and the AP and local self-government units, as an effective implementation of the EU accession process. Finally, I would like to point out that I support the government's work and especially the work and sacrifice of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32770	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32771	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I, in the framework of my engagement and as an MP who was elected from the SNS list, but as an MP representing the United Peasant Party of the Republic of Serbia, submitted an amendment to the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia on Article 1 where I placed an accent on underdeveloped areas. I always talk about underdeveloped areas in my speech, precisely because I come from an undeveloped municipality in southeastern Serbia. I expect that in the coming period the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as our president who, as prime minister in the previous period, worked on the development of the southeast of Serbia, the development of small municipalities and the development of agriculture. At this point, I will look right at agriculture because I am sure that the greatest chance of our development in southeastern Serbia is in the systematic activities of agriculture development, agriculture engagement, subsidies in agriculture. I expect that in Srlig, White Palanca, Gajino Han, and in these municipalities, we will invest and promise even more, that is to say, resources that we can provide for a better life for all citizens in these municipalities. I expect that in the next period we will be able to change the rule that was brought to the Ministry of Agriculture, for small holdings, and to provide better conditions for these agricultural producers. I expect that we will pay the third quarter milk premium very quickly now. I am also sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by our Prime Minister Anna and our president and all ministers have a great accent and a great commitment and we are all working on working on the prosperity and development of the undeveloped areas from which I come. I call on all MPs to vote in favour of my amendment, because I am sure that we will all work to ensure a better life for all people, with a special emphasis on underdeveloped areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32772	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32773	Thank you, Chairman. The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia certainly in the function of economic development and in the public debate that preceded this proposal of the law of its objection, suggestions and proposals gave more than 170 representatives of state administration bodies, local self-government, NGOs, experts from this area and other stakeholders, and had a common view that this law is necessary for the introduction of a higher level of order in the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of co-ordination and continuity in planning, adoption and realization, and thus also to monitor the realisation of documents of the public policies of the Republic of Serbia. All those processes by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the local self-government, the province institutions, which contribute to economic development. So this is the policy which has led to 12% in 2017 from 23.9% in 2012 and is expected below 8% from 2018 to 2020. It is the policy that brings progress in each field, and it is not the policy that consists of the amendment described as the best – it is deleted, 400,000 jobs from 2008 to 2012 – the idea of a new local, highway is deleted – the idea of investing in health, in education is deleted. And we've passed this policy a long time ago at a crossroads, us in the future, and those in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32774	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32775	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose this amendment to be in Article 1. The bill adds Article 2 which reads - the plan system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. This amendment further defines the subject matter of this Bill. The accelerated transition process that our country is going through on its way to the EU has proved to be a kind of test for each institution, including a health care facility that must prove that it is capable and professional enough to meet high-level standards that involve day-to-day validation and quality control. The Institute of Public Health of the Ćupria, Pomoravlje in Ćupria, whose primary task is to promote and protect the health of every resident of Pomoravski County, must fully persist in the way of adapting and adopting European principles and methods of work, which ensure that it remains an unambiguous institution in the health care and environmental protection system. The Institute has been a preventive health institution that has changed the organisational structure on several occasions in its history. At the same time, since the founding of 1954, the Institute for Public Health of Cupria, Pomoravlje in Ćuprija has recorded the upcoming trend of development resulting in the harmonisation and increase of work, personnel strengthening, equipment, introduction of new laboratory and other quality methods and standards, without neglecting working conditions and labour standards. The working conditions and standards of workers have not been ignored in this respect. Thanks to the great engagement of employees and commitment to the work and home they belong to, the Institute has grown into a respectable institution in most of the areas it deals with. Further development of the Institute as a health institution, with a role within the health system of the Pomorava district, primarily co-ordinated and promotional public health care, is possible only through the realization of general and specific development objectives. The general objectives of the Institute's development in the future will be: maintaining the upcoming trend of the Institute's development, providing conditions for sustainable financing, improving quality and efficiency and all activities in the domain of public health, developing health promotion, disease prevention and environmental protection, preserving and improving the health of the inhabitants of the Pomorav County, reducing the incidence and prevalence, the most significant diseases and conditions and reducing the most important risk factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32776	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32777	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, proper coordination between local self-government and republican authorities in the process of action in certain areas in order to achieve the desired objectives, it is possible that the republican authorities have insight into the need for overall development of Serbia, or any part of its territory, so that no local self-government is neglected in the course of five-year planning proposed, adopted and implemented by participants in the planning system in accordance with their respective competences. There is mutual coherence between the planning documents, i.e. the Republic authorities recognise the needs of local self-government. With this mode of work, the republican authorities would recognize the needs of Bajina Basta, where I come from, to declare part of its territory in the area of Mount Tara and the mountain of Povlna, by air spa, so that in these places we could use extremely great potential for the development of rural and other types of tourism, especially sports, congress, mountaineering and hunting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32778	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32779	Thank you, Your Honor. Like most of the amendments I have submitted lately, this amendment to the Law on the Plane System refers to sustainable development, i.e. my support for the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. Before I say anything more about the amendment itself, I'll remind you that today we've been listening on the other side of every discussion. One of his colleagues even mentioned us back in the days of Rome and plebiscites and those held congregations in the squares. He said - we should go to the citizens and talk about the problem, specifically the airport. All citizens have their own representatives. That's why we went to the elections, and I think all things are being solved as far as the local parliament and most of them in the government. Even there were very ugly discussions, a comparison was mentioned between what this congregation majority and this government are doing and what they are investing in and what they are investing in. The comparison was between us and the Slovenians. Let's not forget, and most of us seem to have forgotten what we've been through since 1991, what we've been through and where we've been. It's not for comparison. And for all those who say foreign investors are not real investors - they are. All foreign companies, all foreign investors must register a company in the Republic of Serbia that will be called, for example, we have mentioned today several times, "Gorenje", "Gorenje doo Belgrade" or "Gorenje doo Valjevo". And here's where all the income is collected and here's where all the taxes are paid. Unfortunately, profit remains the founder, which is quite normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32780	Thank you. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Milojevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32781	Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 1 I would like to suggest that Section 2 be added, which reads: "The plan system is afirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector". In that sense, we are introducing this amendment to the private sector as one of the subjects of this law. This is of paramount importance because the aim of the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia is to establish an efficient, transparent and coordinated planning system that will cover all key aspects of social and economic development policy, with home business and budget availability. Given these objectives of the law, it is necessary to recognise the improvement and development of the private sector as one of the basic foundations of the future economic frameworks and the overall development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. In order to be able to catch a connection with the most developed economies of the European Union and continue the country's progress process, I believe this law is a good starting point and a point that will start to further develop the private sector systematically. The municipality of Arangelovac is an example of how small family private companies have increased the number of workers in just a few years, developed into serious companies, with a large number of employees and who in the last few have achieved the best results and the volume of goods placed on the country and abroad. I consider this law to be only one in a series of excellent measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and an indicator of the responsible state policy of living standards growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32782	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ana Karadzic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32783	Respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, the plan system is a public policy system, i.e. the direction of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units in certain areas to achieve the desired goals at society level. What are the goals of society? It is now the establishment of an efficient and transparent system at all levels of government, which, thanks to realistic planning and co-ordination, will achieve optimal use of budget funds in order to ensure sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. This primarily refers to economic growth, which we can continuously maintain and thus catch up with developed societies only by introducing these principles, principles of efficiency, transparency, reality and rationality. Long-term planning, seeing all relevant factors, adequate planning of social and economic development policy and the only way to achieve what we all hope we all want, and that is the development of our country. The state administration is tasked with ensuring a high quality of life for citizens, regulating all those market imperfections that produce unequal outcomes. The services of the state administration today, in the 21st century, must be easily available at low costs and citizens, as well as by states. I therefore welcome the overall reform of the state administration, which for the first time thanks to accelerated rationalisation and digitisation, is the service of citizens, not some punishment and burden. As an example of a good administration at a local level, I can name my municipality of Rakovica. So, it's not just subjectivity, voters said in the recently held city elections, where they more than convincingly indicated another trust in the SNS list. The most valuable thing Rakovica has is its citizens, so the municipal government behaves as well. A new House of Health was built on the Mount of Swans, which otherwise has 40,000 charts and whose citizens have been waiting for almost 40 years. It has been paved over a hundred streets in the last four years, as well as many other things that have improved the quality of life for all of us in Rakovica. Much more has been done, but in my next amendments, of course, I will also list these examples. By adopting this bill we will continue the process of adopting reform laws, we will bring a modern but realistic planning system that puts citizens first and state development. With that in mind, I would like this amendment to be indicated in the text itself. By accepting this amendment, we will recognize the developmental character of this law for our country. That is why I call on the Government to adopt the above-mentioned amendment, and if necessary, so do my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32784	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32785	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, from session to session, we are passing system laws, laws that in many ways require citizens to tell what awaits them in the future. I will try to tell people in these two, three minutes what we had in the past and what it is waiting for us in the future that is ahead of us and why, after all, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. From 2000 to 2012 there was a continuity of planning, systematic planning of the country's robbery, systematic planning of people's layoffs, kidnappings of state and people's property. So in Serbia from 2012 until today, and I believe in the future we also have a plan, but a plan for how citizens to live better, a plan for how to regulate our society in line with those objectives and strategic goals that we have as a state. I believe that this legislative proposal is precisely and therefore today on the agenda to continue the continuity of the policy that we are leading as SNS and led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic from 2012 until today, and this continuity is based on opening factories, modernising society, but not doing this in the future, what are its results, what are the effects on our citizens and society in general? That is why I deeply believe that we as a parliamentary group, all MPs of the SNS, should support this bill and other draft laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32786	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32787	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honored fellow Members of the People, in Article 1. The proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system is added in Article 2 which reads: "The plan system afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions." The draft plan system law aims to address inefficiencies and non-transparency at all levels, the republican level, the level of autonomous province and units of local self-government. The principle of efficiency of the judiciary is one of the basic principles on which the entire justice system of the Republic of Serbia is based. The fundamental elements of the efficiency of the judiciary are guaranteed by the Constitution, and each branch of law foresees the principle of efficiency as a crown principle. The reduction in the backlog of cases and the unification of case law have a significant impact on the efficiency of the judiciary. Therefore, since the beginning of 2017, the Law on the protection of the right to trial has been applied within a reasonable period which further guarantees the efficiency of the judiciary and makes significant progress towards achieving the objective in this area. On the other hand, the process of joining the European Union involves implementing reforms that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing with great success. Chapter 23 refers to the judiciary and fundamental rights and carries with it the obligation of fundamental reforms aimed at just the effectiveness of the judiciary. How essential this issue is for Serbia and every other country that has joined or is in the process of joining the European Union tells the practice of opening chapters 23 and 24 at the very beginning of the negotiations and closing the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32788	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz? Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kostić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32789	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all these regulations need to remove all the identified problems of the existing way of working and supplement the good elements that we already have in the state administration, connecting them to one system. The main postulates they prescribe are a good understanding of the problem, analysis, clear and concrete objectives, measurement of results, coherence with the budget, participatoryness and connection between plans and regulations. This law introduces a system of responsibility for results and creates a framework for measuring the efficiency of public administration work. An efficient and transparent planning system covering all key aspects of the social and economic development policy and regional and spatial development is also established, with optimal use of budgetary resources, ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as improving business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32790	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Dracun, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32791	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment that reads - Article 1. The bill adds Article 2: "The plan's system is afirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving defence capacities". The subject of the regulation of the Republic of Serbia's plan system should certainly be the development of Serbia through improvements and defence capacities, especially under emerging international circumstances. Public policies defining the course of action of the Republic of Serbia invariably affect capacity building and improving defence capacities in each segment. When economic development, financial policy, energy sustainability, food sustainability, infrastructure, information progress is planned, it should always be and must be borne in mind that this directly affects the planning and construction of the defence capacities of the Republic of Serbia. The creation of a predictable legal environment, i.e. an advanced, precise and orderly planing system of the Republic of Serbia, ensures a reduction of uncertainty for successful planning and defence capacity building. Real planning, preparation and raising of defence resources according to the country's capabilities defined and through the plan system are necessary elements for the structure, modernisation, development and efficiency of the overall defence system. That's why I consider Article 1. The law on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia should be complemented by the amendment I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32792	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32793	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to health development. In order for health care to develop and function normally, all individuals, like all society entities, must invest in the same over their obligations to pay the state. The previous regime had a completely different purpose. In addition, the fact that I came as a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, as regards the city of Loznica, relates. In fact, close to the city center, only 300 meters away, there are 75 tons of cyanide salts in the former factory “Faka” range from the time the factory worked. At the time of the "Clear Serbia" action, waste was packed into a metal barrel whose deadline had expired and the salt had begun to leak. Through the Ministry of Agriculture and environmental protection, I prayed that this hazardous waste be removed. I've come to know that I'm looking for something that's already been removed, done and paid, i.e. The paperwork's all over, and in reality it's still standing in the same place. There is no end to the manipulations of the former regime. After privatisation, the state again paid a third of the amount needed to export the same hazardous waste, which to this day did not move from place. Which is suspected, I don't know, or who's in the signature, it's the D.A.'s case. That money could have been directed into the purchase of the necessary equipment for the prison hospital, such as X-rays and scanners. At our hospital’s breast compartment, an X - ray machine was used in 1975, and in the service of radiology, two apparatus that were available in 1979 and 1981. The competent minister, Mr. Trivan, has promised to find a solution to remove this hazardous waste. I look forward to it because living conditions in Loznica will be better quality and citizens healthier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32794	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MP Dubravka Filipovski submit to Article 1 of the amendment? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekić? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec? Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A fellow Sušec has a thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32795	The town of Pancevo was once a well-known industrial city, the Honored Chairman, the Honored Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The town of Pančevo was lost from 2000 to 2012 by 12 factories that were decommissioned and sold out through various robbery privatisations. Nearly 6,000 workers, the citizens of Panchev remained on the street. The rest are on the street thanks to those irresponsible who have ruled Serbia for over a decade, and today they are criticising us, and they are telling us some responsibility. Serbian citizens do not have amnesia and they know well how honest and honest they are before us, who are not in the O.R. today. This is best seen in recent elections not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately for all citizens of Panchev, factories are being built in Panchev today after 40 years. After 40 years, factories are being built, both domestic and foreign investors are opening new jobs, as well as in other cities in the Republic of Serbia, all thanks to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. After the Austrian company Egston, which is building its factory in Panchev, Germany's ZF Friedrich investor starts building a car industry component company in several months. The two investors in the first phase will employ over 1,000 citizens of Panchev. Over 1,000 citizens of Panchev! And this is one big economic and economic step of progress for the city of Panchevo itself, which was truly destroyed from 2000 to 2012. By 2021, the northern industrial zone on the territory of the city of Pancheva will employ over 4,000 of our citizens. It's for all praise. This is the result of responsible work, this is the result of responsible policy, policy of peace, stability, security, restored international reputation, which represents the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and all in the interest of our country, in the interest of the better future of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32796	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović? Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of richinović has a thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32797	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. The real example of good planning is the City of Leskovac and the local self-government of the town of Leskovec. It invests in continuous work to improve the quality of healthcare. The town of Leskovac is constantly making significant efforts to provide citizens with better and better quality treatment, modern ambulances equipped with modern appliances. Over the past five years, all the hospitals in the city have been renovated. The conditions of treatment are significantly improved in the home of health. The dentistry is completely renovated, a renovated rolling stock, and a large number of modern appliances have been purchased in the hospital as well. These appliances allow better and faster diagnostics and better quality treatment. Over 800,000 euros have been invested in the home of health in recent years. Permanent investment also resulted in recognitions. The General Hospital of Leskovac received the award for the best hospital in the region that has arrived from the International Committee of Socrates in London. A large number of General Hospital departments, Leskovac, receive a brand-new look such as the building of oncology and child neuropsychiatry, the EG cabinets, the departments of disease addiction. There is no service in which at least something has not been done, and urology departments, orthopedics, gynecology, pediatrics, internal medicine services, as well as gastroenterology have been renovated. With the help of the donor there are 15 apartments. The prestigious recognitions of world business publications were received by the Institute for Public Health, the award for business achievements and the European corporate reward for exceptional achievements in promoting health in Serbia for 2016. The reconstruction of the building of the company's inspection medicine hospital has been completed, in which there has been no higher investment for more than 70 years. The value of the works is about 45 million dinars, and a complete reconstruction of the General Hospital of Leskovac is expected, of course, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, great support for athletes is not lacking. The athletes are ambassadors of the city that Leskovac promotes in the best way and represent role models for young and children to be seen, which is why the city's budget increases the amount issued to finance sports clubs and organisations every year. After taking responsibility, 26 million dinars were allocated annually, and today the sum is 55 million dinars. In the past, the town of Leskovac has hosted large sports aces. Among them are Predrag Danilovic, president of the KSS, then FSS President Slavisa Koheza, Zoran Gajic, OSCE President and our celebrated football player Savo Milosevic. Leskovac hosted the Balkan Championship for volleyball cadets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32798	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32799	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The honourable ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely follows the intention of the legislator to be examined in the reasons for the adoption of such a law. I'm glad that the city of Nis can point out as a good example in an area close to this bill. In 2017, Nis continued to record outstanding results in the tourism area, and the city's original revenues during this period show that nearly 25 million dinars were achieved on the basis of residence taxis. The estimated direct and indirect revenues based on the average tourist consumption in the city for 2017 are over 1.6 billion dinars. Over 100,000 tourists visited Nis during this period, which is 26% more than the same period in 2016. In doing so, the number of foreign guests increased by 35% and the number of domestic tourists by 16%. The number of overnight stays in Nis rose in 2017 to as much as 190 thousand, with a trend in further growth. Today, tourists from Bulgaria, Greece, Germany, China, the Russian Federation come to Nis and so on. Success certainly belongs to the tourist organization Nis and Nisljam, whose hospitality has been assessed by almost five, as the highest rating, but in this case it is seen exactly what good governance of public policies means, proper implementation of planning documents and mutual coordination of competent authorities at the republican and local level. The adoption of this bill will only make it easier to achieve a general objective as a desired situation in society and in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32800	The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32801	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, I have proposed an amendment to Article 1. The law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, because I believe that by adding Article 2 we further define the subject of this law and thus affirm the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and I would specifically refer to the health system. Otherwise, we know that Serbia's health care has been destroyed for many years and especially between 2000 and 2012, and unfortunately in 2012, we consider our health to be the worst in the region. Those who have just criticised in the afternoon that our amendments and the work of our government are not there now, always have more to do and thus show that our people and their lives are not at all interested. I would also refer to the fact that it is those who were responsible for the situation in our country that they have the right to criticise everything our government is doing for the benefit of our citizens, and what our citizens are showing in the elections that we are on the right track and that they believe this government and the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic. I must stress that the good reform laws have managed to stop the decline of Serbian health and that we have made progress in the European health consumer index in three areas – patients' rights, access to health care and treatment outcomes. What I must stress is that it was this government that managed to secure the employment of over 2,000 health workers in the previous year, allowing conditions to employ a large number of doctors, and that is exactly what our government is doing, taking care of citizens and not just the plan and the programme, but the results are behind our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32802	The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Here you go, colleague of David's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32803	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted this amendment to be more precisely defined by the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of regional co-operation. The reason for this law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent and co-ordinated, realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, administrative provinces and units of local self-government. This law should cover all key aspects, social, economic and development policies and regional and spatial development, with optimal use of budgetary resources, sustainable growth security and development of the Republic of Serbia, including the AP units of local self-government, as well as effective implementation of the EU accession process, particularly in the context of requirements arising from negotiating chapters 17 – economic and monetary policy and 22 – regional policy and the coordination of structural instruments. The bill sets out and regulates documents such as the development plan, the investment plan, the development plan of units of local self-government, strategies, programmes and policies of action plans, projects and the annual work plan of the Government. In addition, the timing of documents, such as medium-term and long-term plans, ECST analysis, which precedes policy implementation and the ECST post analysis that comes after policy implementation, are recognised. By passing this law, there is an opportunity for all that the government brings, which is brought by the AP, which brings local self-government, to be connected horizontally and vertically, and not to have some local self-government do besides what the government or EP signed. Since 2014, the government has led the prime minister of the time, and today President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has joined serious reforms and has shown that everything he does is doing in the best possible way and that we can already harvest the fruits of this work. This is due to our citizens who have shown us confidence and supported us, and we from the SNS will never be irresponsible as some authorities before 2012 that have led our country's economy to this extent to threaten us with bankruptcy. We love our country and work in the interest of our citizens, and accordingly we have their support, which can be seen in the held elections in the past. Accordingly, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32804	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Here's my colleague Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32805	The proposed amendment reads -- Serbia's plan system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on financial stability. The aim of the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia is to establish a planning system covering all key aspects, social and economic and development policies and regional and spatial development, to ensure sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's economy achieved a solid growth rate in 2016 and 2017. External and internal imbalances have been reduced, and progress has been made in the realisation of structural reforms. By reducing public debt and increasing GDP, with fiscal consolidation, they had a strong and positive fact of investor confidence. The growth in investor confidence, with favourable circumstances in the internal and international financial markets, has contributed to increased investment and their growth in 2016 and 2017. The growth of investments has been affected by certain reforms, such as labour market reforms, the acceleration of construction authorisation procedures and the expansion of the application of the E Administration. The accelerated economic development requires changes in the business of organisations and adaptation to new market requirements, and therefore it is necessary to have an efficient planning system that will be easily controlled and monitored, making direct progress and increasing financial stability in Serbia. How can progress and increase financial stability be seen? I think that the citizens of Serbia have already become fully accustomed to the major changes that have become everyday, and it is those who have given us confidence and showed how easily they have accepted modernization and progress, from rebuilding and building schools, hospitals and apartments, new modern roads, railway lines to open new modern factories across Serbia. Any better indicators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32806	On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32807	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, the bill on the Serbian plan system may be the most comprehensive law covering all levels of decision-making from republican to local self-government units, as ineffectiveness, ineffectiveness and non-transparency has been observed so far. Our government has made in a number of previous years a shift in this area, but it is necessary to continue to implement a set of activities to make this plan system more efficient, more effective and in the far line, cheaper. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 by adding point 2 that reads – the plan system afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the growth of economic indicators. All this government does is advance our country in all spheres. The Serbian dinar is the second currency in the world with the best performance in the past 12 months. Last month the highest value was achieved according to the euro. Interest rates have been reduced for the third time in the past seven months, giving investors additional optimism. Inflation dropped to 1.5% last month which was half as low as in December 2017. Serbia offers positive real contributions to short-term investment and these are economic indicators that show that we are slowly but certainly making progress and therefore we have great criticism by the opposition because it has a people's "success is not forgiven". I wanted to further define the subject of this law with the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32808	National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32809	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The law on the planning system with a special focus on the development of municipalities and cities. It is very important that this law has the necessary flexibility and that the planning documents can be easily changed and complemented, e.g. development plan, investment plan, spatial plan, urban plans etc. Maybe all the laws, even this one, should be said through some real practice. I often like to speak through real practice and take an example of this law, where it is shown to be very good, which is a dam or a accumulation of "Stubo-Rovni". It's a huge accumulation of water with a factory to process healthy, proper drinking water. Planish documents so far provide for this accumulation with a water factory to satisfy a number of cities and municipalities. However, the “Stubo-Rovni” dam’s capacity with a water factory is much higher than planned documents are provided and it is normal for the use of healthy, proper drinking water to be extended to surrounding municipalities and cities, and this can be done through the change of planning documents. Given that this law allows us to easily change certain planning documents and that the use of the Stubo-Rovni dam is extended to the environment, in addition to those envisaged, it is, in particular, about proper drinking water, and who has the right drinking water has perspective and development. Since it is so that this law allows very easy, let's say, the Municipality of Osecina, LJig, Koceljeva, Banja Vrujica, to be subsequently included through the change of documents that this law allows, they can get healthy proper drinking water. Since this is so, that citizens have a great profit, that the public sector has a great profit, that the economy has a great profit, and I guess that's the goal of all of us, both these governments and presidents of the Republic and all of the normal ones in this country, so the law is good, that we should support it, and if it gives full effect to the citizens, I think it's good. I've listed this through one living example, where he's best understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32810	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32811	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished ministers with fellow Members, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this bill, which is ahead of us, on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, is set in line for key laws that will contribute to the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia for which it favours itself, and not only for the purposes of implementation, but also for the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Ana Brnabic, the largest number of MPs in this high house, SNS and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am shocked by today's morning statements by the opposition about this law, especially by the party of the former regime. It's either that they haven't read the law or they're deliberately pretending they don't know this law. So this plan development law also involves an investment plan, which they say is gone. Please, I have a feeling they haven't read this bill, because it's exactly where it's talking about an investment plan for a period of seven years. The plan for the development of the AP Vojvodina, for seven years. There are now no Lords from the opposition benches, especially those who are separatist, for example. The Light of Koraqa, he's been gone for a long time, to say if he has a plan or not. Local self-government development plan for seven years. You see, they didn't mention it at all. The development strategy of each particular area, etc., is further not to mention. I'm sorry, but since we've been sort of offended by some opposition MPs all afternoon, we've been making wars and maltenes by the Hague tribunal. As a man witness to the previous in The Hague tribunal in the trial of the century with Mr Milosevic, only three sentences. The Hague tribunal is an illegal establishment, so all the verdicts that have been made and which will be made are not valid. You know that, gentlemen, all of you lawyers, particularly well knows this by my colleague Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, who is also an expert in this area. The second sentence I would like to say was that the UN tribunal should have contributed to the reconciliation of the people in the Balkans and did not bring it. The third, The Hague tribunal, I will repeat once again, is the largest civilization, political and legal waste that could produce so-called. the international community. As far as I'm concerned, my personal position, Professor Vojislav Seselj, thank you for at least laundering a little from the Serb people in The Hague, who was unjustly imposed on him. Gentlemen Members of Parliament, this law also provides for planning documents in the area of the education and education system for a period of seven to ten years. There's no knowledge or education without a well-trained teacher. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has announced, will pay particular attention to this activity and the importance not only in the process of improving education and education, as you heard the Prime Minister, but also in terms of wages. In the end, teach the child the number, put the letter in the word, read them, write them, delete them, understand, know, only a small part of what the teacher really is. Gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, I do not say on purpose – what the teacher is doing, because being a teacher is not a job. To be a teacher is to love. Being a teacher is a feeling. Being a teacher is a skill. Being a teacher is easy to be. Finally, we are giving full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS to continue working to strengthen security and peace in the region, as there is no economic and overall development without security and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32812	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32813	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying -- if you give me six hours to bring down a tree, I'll spend the first four hours planning and sharpening the axe. As far as agriculture is concerned, these before us certainly didn't plan it well. We have to plan carefully not only plant production, that's what they call parori. We have to keep our plant production developed, first of all, for livestock, and for the processing of meat, milk. Also, we must not sacrifice small agricultural holdings, and the agricultural policy that was previously conducted went in this direction that small agricultural holdings have no future. Serbia is the sum of the Netherlands and Austria. So that agricultural policy must also be taken into account by large agricultural producers, but also by those small ones. They're a small perspective in employment. They are very important because of demographics, due to the survival of the population, primarily in eastern and southern Serbia, so along the borders, because 1200 inhabited areas have fewer than 100 inhabitants. It is not true that small agricultural holdings do not have a perspective if everything is well planned, if, for example, small agricultural holdings specialise and in a way that develops vegetables on one hectare of greenhouses or better plastics, you can make a production worth 50, 100, 200 or 300 hectares in wartime production. Also, at small agricultural holdings with hectares, two organised modern orchards, you can produce fruit worth 30 to 60 000 euros each year. It is not true, therefore, what these before us have claimed, that they have no perspective. They are even, in my opinion, a perspective for new employment, if we make as close as we can to the site of production as we can to the processing plant. In such situations we will do work for both workers and peasants in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32814	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32815	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia and suggested that a position be added in Article 1 which I am sure is closely related to the essence and intention of the promoter to define and establish mechanisms for effective, transparent, coordinated and realistic planning systems, all with the aim of sustainable growth and development of our country. The proposed position 2 reads - the plan system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving the work of local self-government. The previous regime for 12 years, in Vojvodina 16, was, to say the least, systematically destroying local self-government and bringing them to ruin. There were no plans, citizens were presented with lists of good wishes, without grounds to be achieved, which was the worst they were absolutely not in line with the budget processes and financial support programmes. The overall development of Serbia was their last concern, and the budgets of local self-government opportunities for robbery and personal wealth that they used to the maximum. This was the case in Novi Knezevic until the 2016 local elections, when the SNS also assumed responsibility in the municipality, taking over, unfortunately, an empty municipal register with debts greater than the total income of the annual budget. The municipal leadership headed by the municipality's president, Dr. Radovan Uveric, met with a budget account blockade in September 2016, which lasted until half of December. Only thanks to the support of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic's financial problems have been overcome, preventing the bankruptcy of the local self-government I come from. In the presidential elections of the citizens of Novi Knezevic municipality, they showed that they knew that the prices of concern for Alexander Vukic over each part of Serbia, that they appreciated the policy of even regional development that he particularly insists on, showed him then two-thirds of the trust and clearly told other opponents that they were nothing but simple statistical errors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32816	Thank you. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32817	About half a million expelled Serbs live in the Republic of Serbia from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH and over 200,000 expelled Serbs and other non-Albanians from the KIM area. One of the key problems facing refugees and displaced persons as the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia's integration process is the issue of housing. Unfortunately, we have a significant number of expelled Serbs who have not resolved this key issue of integration, but unfortunately 20, 25, 28 years already pay for hiding, living as tenants, and unfortunately the state of Serbia, especially after 1995, has done almost nothing to resolve the issue. Instead of providing funds for the state of Serbia in 1995, 1996, 1998, 2001, 2005, it loaned funds to refugee families to solve their housing issues, these people would return all those funds in 10.15 years. Unfortunately, this is how many have thrown tens of thousands of euros into wells and are still tenants. Fortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been implementing a regional housing programme for six years, aimed at resolving this key issue right now. According to one survey, done by the Committee on Refugees and Migration of the Republic of Serbia, there are still 16800 refugee families from the Croatian Federation of BiH living in Serbia, which have not yet resolved these issues. The regional housing programme provides for 10,000 apartments to be built, to provide 3,500 packages of construction material for those families who have not yet finished their houses, about 2,000 rural properties for those families who would like to live in the country and to deal with agriculture and about 1,200 installing houses for those families who have their beaches. The programme is ongoing and I appeal to the Refugees' Commissioner, the Serbian government project management unit that this process is maximum speedy, that at the end of the implementation of the regional housing programme there should be no refugee family that has not resolved the housing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32818	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32819	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable citizens of Serbia, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia and to add attitude 2 to the plan system is afirming the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government. The proposed law, as the legislator predicted, aims to establish effective transparency and a coordinated realistic planning system covering all key aspects of the social, economic and development policy and regional and spatial development, with optimal use of budgetary resources, ensuring growth and development of the Republic of Serbia and implementing the EU accession process. The legislative proposal allows the budget of the Republic of Serbia to be planned in the best service of all citizens and businesses along with the professionalisation of public administration, an efficient planning system will give the best result, and it is therefore important to implement the planned reforms of state administration and local self-government with this bill. Local self-government as the authority of the state administration to which citizens and businesses are directly addressed is necessary to be capable, efficient and professional. What we want is an effective local self-government that will serve citizens. A well-established plan and strategy, in line with realistic objectives, with the continued consultation of businesses and citizens, can set up local self-government and then the whole state in one rational way that will contribute to the overall development of the state. I ask my fellow MPs to support this law in the day of voting and if they have the strength and will and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32820	Thank you. The People's MP Maja Macužic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32821	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, it is a technical amendment which sets out that legal provision in a different way, and which I wanted to point to the importance of this law to improve international co-operation. By submitting this amendment, I wanted to stress the importance of the planning process for international co-operation, for the overall reform of our society and for improving Serbia's international position. The improvement of Serbia's international position did not come in itself. It is not the international position and reputation of Serbia that has been corrected for the implementation of the "Marsa na Drin" into the UN, but rather the serious and responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. Gentlemen, one Jeremic, whose greatest reach for Serbia's promotion from the presidency of the UN General Assembly, could not have been the organisation of the Viva Vox concert, to tell us about the improvement of the international position. She can't talk to us about it either, because the only idea Jankovic could offer to improve Serbia's position in the world was not to prevent Kosovo in democratic development and not to prevent Kosovo from membership in all international organisations. They can't talk about it. That's what President Alexander Vukitch can talk about. Thanks to the reputation enjoyed by foreign statesmen by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's reputation in the world has improved significantly in recent years. Therefore, Ministers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has our support in everything you do to emulate the legislative regulation and the entire economic system, in order to allow for smooth growth and development of Serbia and to improve Serbia's international position in the world. In voting day, I urge my colleagues to vote in favour of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32822	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32823	Thank you. I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia that what the co-worker has carried out, that is, this Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, has really nothing to do with Alexander Vukic or Mr Jeremic or Mr Sasa Jankovic. So here we're talking about one global planning, about the highest level of planning, and the amendments you're putting on that law, the first term is so much, I have to say, somewhere below and in the medium term, completely past what's the subject of this law. Personally, I believe that the law can be good and that it can even be fulfilled what my colleague said earlier, that local communities are as respected as possible and I think we should, so we don't have any more Požega, Zrenjanin or Nis. I mean, I'm looking forward to having them right now, because that's the real situation in the field of local communities. However, in order for the locale to rise to the level needed and to take active part in making plans for its local communities, transparency must be done and public participation must be worked on. So, the public becomes interested in the public, the local communities no longer want the centralized system that the government has, to endure, I have to say, and, so, one day, it's going to fit nicely if, in this law that we have, we respect that interested public, we include them in the active process of making plans, not the drafts, but when the plans start to come forward. Only then will we have a truly quality planning system. Once again, the law was not asked by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, neither Jeremic nor Mr. Sasa Jankovic, it was written by the ministry responsible for this, and there are signatories, and there is no need for a law that is really at the highest level of planning, we know that development plans, are adopted here in the Assembly, to bring down even medium-term plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32824	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32825	Is this a straight line, Mr. Chairman? Just so I know how to arrange the time, since the party president was mentioned. So when we talk about Serbia's position on the world, and that's what a colleague who proposed this amendment was talking about, of course, about the strategic level. Serbia's position is not something that's being arranged today for tomorrow, it's not something that's being arranged on a one-week plan for a month. It's something to do with looking into the future, with a serious view. Among other things, it is not said, for no reason, that integration issues in Serbia's European future and perspective, but, on the other hand, the best possible relations with the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China and relevant factors on the world's political scene, are what is considered strategic goals and definitions. About that, absolutely everything said in our colleague's discussion was in place. What we need to take into account, on the other hand, is that if we're talking about repercusions to the locale, I understood that in the previous discussion, they can of course be established and they certainly exist. Serbia's adequate position, among other things on the international agenda, implies certain consequences. In the case of our country, no doubt, good consequences. Peace and stability, which, with economic development, we always potentiate as the vital interests of our society, implies that precisely because Serbia is recognized as a peaceful, stable environment, some investors conclude that they can place their capital there, someone comes up with the idea of investing in this country, what is really happening, someone here is starting a new production program, someone here is opening up a factory, which is exactly what is happening. Thanks to all these interlinked processes, we today can also boast with 170 thousand completely new jobs and with, I think, about 90 of these new factories and new production plants. As much as it has to do with each other, I think it's more than clear. As far as anyone understands it while they're listening, let's just leave a question for those who listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32826	By amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32827	You've sighed. How much someone understands when they listen is one question, how much someone understands when they read is another question and I understand very much when I read what's written. It is clear to me that this law that we are talking about today, as well as many laws, is not entirely with the national plan for the adoption of EU legal flows. So the important part that is avoided is the presence of the public, it is this high degree of transparency, and we really can never agree with these currents, with this positive European Union law, until we involve the public in making important plans. So, the old way of public involvement that was formal is exceeded, it's absolutely insufficient. The old way of notifying the public when it comes to making plans has been overcome. Now we have electronic administration, all ministries don't advertise via e-Government, I don't think even nine ministries are advertising insights into plans, but it's mostly advertised through tabloids. We advertise very important plans over the tabloids. It will no longer be possible to do so, if we want to develop the local community in quality and if we want to highlight the public interest and if we have the desired goals that we need to respect at the level of the Republic. The public must be involved in the process of drafting these plans, so the active local community can only find satisfaction in its way of planning if the public is involved from the first moment on in general debate on these plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32828	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32829	By amendment. There is likely to be some error in this law, and even in the accompanying explanation there is no meaning of the tabloid daily pages. But if it's a desire to increase transparency, something we welcome together, that's exactly why we support this law, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32830	By amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32831	Sir, it doesn't say in the law, but it's the experience of mine that I collect on the ground and in making various plans, whether it's urban plans or others, and they're advertised in the tabloids, most often in the Daily Telegraph, for which at the time they started to advertise we didn't even have information, because it took a very short time to establish a list, how much read it. If we want to let the public know, we have to do it in a good way. If we don't want to notify her, then we won't. It's a frog and an electronic administration, a waste of us and an e-business bill if we don't implement it in the process of making these plans or anything else. Technically, we can respect everything, but really in order to respect something, it should be applied. Well, it's only applicable if we call, in this case, on this law, citizens to actively engage in the process of making plans, not to serve them finished plans where their interest is absolutely not focused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32832	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32833	Thank you. I think I found a reason for a lack of understanding. The error is to understand certain contents. Of course, there was never anything in the daily press like plans, programmes, strategies or action plans that we should be dealing with at this session about this law. The mistake is obviously in understanding, when, for example, Sasa Jankovic publishes an appeal in a particular newspaper, even if the rank of the tabloid, it is not what this law refers to. I think we're clear now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32834	The First Amendment was submitted by National MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does he want a word? Anyone else? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does he want a word? (No) National MP Zvonimir Djokic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does he want a word? (Yes) The word has Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32835	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, the applicable regulations are not allowed to allow all participants of the planning system, which is the National Assembly, the Government and the authorities of the local authorities, to determine with certainty when they adopt the strategy, and when the programme, or what all these documents of public policy and action plans should contain. The relevant rules have not established any level, depending on the type of public policy documents, public policy measures and their implementation should be developed, and in no way shall the effects of their implementation be determined. Therefore, for the SNS, the need to establish an efficient, transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units is sufficient reason to pass this law. In addition, we are bound by the EU accession process, particularly in the context of the requirements and obligations we have accepted, which arise from the negotiating Chapter 17 of the Economic and Monetary Policy, as well as from Chapter 22 of the Regional Policy and the coordination of structural instruments. Not by adopting this law and by not linking the public policy planning process, making rules into a single process, would result in ineffectiveness of the planning system and the regulatory framework for business and for the lives of citizens. This would undoubtedly affect the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as its defence system. For this reason, I have proposed several amendments which I wanted to further define the subject, the basic concepts and the principles and the purpose of the planning documents. On the first amendment in a series, I suggested that Article 1. The bill extends by adding Article 2 which would further define the subject of the regulation of this law and thus highlight that it will positively affirm the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and therefore act positively to improve the defence system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32836	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32837	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, the amendment I have proposed in Article 1. The bill adds the 2nd position -- the plan system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on budgetary stabilisation. It is clear to everyone that planning is very important for each job, especially at the national level and at the levels of the province and the municipalities. Connecting and co-ordination between these plans can ensure a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia and a view of the authorities where what works, where what does not work. That significant planning was also known in 2006 in the municipality of Smederevska Palanka and was done in one pilot project Strategic Plan for Sustainable Development of Smederevska Palanka Municipality by 2016. There were five municipalities. One of the municipalities is, I think, Koceljeva, a colleague Matic is here to testify, and that only those who came after 2008 read the plan and worked on it would not have caused such a wasteland in Smederjevska Palanca as they caused their rule by 2016. And after the victory of the SNS, their main task was obstruction, so there was the introduction of a temporary organ. You know, that the SNS has won convincingly, but I want to tell you this, during the operation of the provisional organ, it's more done than in two mandates by DS authorities and their accomplices who were in the Smederjevska Palanca. Just to look back at the morning discussion and the importance of the arrival of "Simens" in Kragujevac. Someone said – it's not the contribution of Vukichev. Yes, Milanovic is the main one that "Simens" came in, but certainly one general situation in Serbia brings investors and what I expect and I know that more German firms will come to Serbia precisely because of the lack of workers. Here we say, we're going abroad, but let's be sure, right because of Vucic's diplomatic activities at all times, that companies will come here, so we'll hire children in Serbia. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica, told me... )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32838	He didn't say anything ugly to you. He said the most beautiful thing about you. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32839	Very brief chairman. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment aims, as it has been formulated in the amendment itself, to highlight the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development. In my opinion, he absolutely supports the intensification of this bill, which is what one of his colleagues said, but is not burned because of citizens repeating, the need to establish an efficient, transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. In this regard, I would point out one positive example of the local self-government of the Vrakar municipality, and regarding the planning of the budget for the current year, precisely respecting the interests of other participants in the planning system, but also respecting initiatives, needs and priorities of local self-government and citizens. The budget for the current year has been designed and planned in direct co-operation with the citizens of Vrakar. At the citizens' initiative, a survey was conducted that took part in over 500 citizens of Vračar. So it is a clear intention that what citizens suggest, what citizens propose, to put into the budget. The result of this policy is that today when we apply the budget that we have planned in this way, we have a far greater number of cultural content, a far greater number of sports content, events, a far greater number of educational content. At the very least, a far better connection between citizens and local self-government itself. I think it's a good example and that such examples should be more, just when it comes to the Vračar municipality, which for two decades was almost almost almost under the control of DS, but fortunately in 2016, there was a change and the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power and things have been going better ever since.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32840	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32841	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Bill on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. The bill, where I propose to add attitude 2 to the plan system, affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to industrialisation. We have a good bill before us, and the amendment I submitted to Article 1 aims to improve the bill itself and put a special emphasis on industrialization. Article 1 is the subject of the regulation of the law and I therefore believe it is necessary to add Article 2 and further define it. The development of industry is directly linked to the planning system. We're tired of public policy plans being a list of beautiful desires that sound good, but they don't give us any results. The government of the Republic of Serbia thus shows us its determination to change things for the better. Only good planning systems and analyses of public policy management effects can affect the development of industry, and thus also affect the reduction of unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32842	The first amendment was submitted by Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32843	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, where Article 2 is added, and it reads: "The plan's system is affirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving economic exchange. “ So today we are in a position to talk about economic development, and sometimes we were unable to imagine economic growth. So how do we imagine economic growth, when we were locked down by factories, fired by people, as many as 400,000 workers were fired. Imagine the whole of Novi Sad isn't working for us, half of Nis and all my bullets don't work for us. They destroyed everything that could be destroyed. It's different today. Today, not only are we talking about economic development, today we are talking about sustainable economic development. This means that generations who come will have something to live on, will live on from their work. Today we invest both in infrastructure and through digitisation, through the implementation of reforms we help our business operators, both manufacturers and service providers to reduce production costs, and thus this will positively reflect the reduction of product prices and the reduction of service prices and we will have a competitive economy, and when we have a competitive economy, there is a possibility of expanding and production and service capacities, the possibility of hiring new workers opens up. I come from the municipality of Kurzumlia, a small municipality in southern Serbia, which today, led by the SNS, places as much as 41% of its municipal budget on investment in infrastructure projects. Sometimes these funds were used for travel expenses, for various travels, for payments made by various secretaries, for payments made by deputies, for assistant assistants, for assistant assistants, I don't even know who all the jobs were. Today we use funds to build infrastructure. Today, everything we do is to continue a positive trend in growth and development and to work in the best interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32844	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32845	I thank the president. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, because today we are able to talk about increased investment in all areas of the economy. By 2012, investment was just a mental directory. I would particularly refer to tourism as one of the most profitable industries, which in 2017 achieved revenue of over 1.2 billion euros, almost 20% more than in 2016, and for 12% more tourists visited our country in 2017 compared to 2016 and all thanks to increased investment in this branch of economy. We are today encouraging our citizens to visit our Serbian tourist destinations, and thank God, Serbia has them on its own. PIT subsidies issuing 80,000 vouchers in 2018 for domestic tourism visits, for which our government has defined 400 million dinars is the basis of everything and one of the tourism drivers in 2017 Sokobanja, although the fifth of the nights achieved, recorded the highest growth of 20% compared to 2016, of course thanks to these vouchers. Of the 90,000 vouchers, issued in 2017, over 31,000 vouchers were realised in Sokobanja, extending the tourist season for two and a half months and Sokobanja achieved a record 1,050,000 nights. A positive trend in the number of nights and number of tourists is also recorded in 2018. This showed our government that the government is socially responsible and that it takes care of the quality of life of all citizens of our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32846	Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32847	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, planning and organizations, leadership and control are the school definition of management. The vision, mission, objectives and strategies, as well as the activities leading to the achievement of these activities, are in fact planning. The future, it's actually planned. The choice between a large number of roads in which one nation can go is what is subject to the Law on Planning of the Republic of Serbia. The perception of events and the time ahead is an integral part of the planning. This is not the first law to deal with this problem. In Serbia, if you go in the far or near past, you certainly have laws that were similar, in the economic area in particular. You have the first five-year plan of the Federative Republic of Yugoslavia, you have the Swot analysis, you have the Sustainable Development Strategy, the Stability Strategy and all these strategies actually work up to the level of results. They are all extracted from the economy, have a foothold in strategic planning and without results plans remain an empty letter on paper. We in Serbia have the case so that we can say that the 2008 Swot analysis of the economic event may have been both positive and good, but the results are what was missing. If you look at 2015, when we had a fiscal consolidation plan and fiscal consolidation, fiscal strategy, fiscal principles are all public policies, then the results that we then outlined, which were to be achieved at the end of 2017, are completely different from the public policies that were represented in Serbia's economy in the previous time period. When you look at public policies in the area of economy, in the area of macro-economy, which are completely measurable, it is not growth, it is growth and development. Then it is clear why such a system plan, which contributes to a comprehensive analysis and planning in the Republic of Serbia, has my support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32848	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32849	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, my amendment proposes adding Article 2 to Article 1, with the need to reduce poverty in the Republic of Serbia. As we have heard many times today, the aim of the law is definitely an efficient planning system aimed at strengthening social, economic and even regional development. Of course, with the optimal use of budget funds and ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. We also heard that one of the key elements of this law is just connecting policy planning with budget planning, which means rational planning and rational use of resources. All this leads to the creation of good conditions to bring investors, to provide a better workforce, to develop advanced technology, and, very important, more orientation towards results and greater responsibility, because if all of this is not available, of course there are no investors, there are no new jobs either. Just one more point, a comprehensive public administration reform process was launched by 2014. In addition to the organisation of new and human resources management, there is, of course, the digitisation and introduction of e-government, but of course all this because of better services and citizens and businesses, and as I have already said, with the aim of economic strengthening and reducing poverty in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32850	The first amendment was submitted by Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32851	Thank you, President Gojkovic. Dear Minister Djordjevic and his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, have submitted an amendment to Article 1. A bill on Serbia's plan system, which defines the subject of this law itself. Our intention was to affirm further the introduction of electronic services in Serbia with the content of this amendment in order to ensure our country's overall development. Let me remind you, the electronics administration is set as the top priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic and Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. These are pioneer endeavors that did not happen, the results did not occur during the night. There was a consensus of citizens, businesses, wider communities, the necessity of establishing an electronic administration in its full capacity. Today we have more than 200 institutions that are networked by the state administration and local self-government, which provide more than 800 services on the e-government portal. The efficiency of the state administration, the fight against bureaucracy, the fight against corruption, the rationalisation of resources are very important topics for Serbia as much as Serbia wants to move forward. Serbia wants to move forward and it has shown through the reform of the electronic administration. Serbia wants to stand side by side with developed countries of the world, leading countries when it comes to IT technology and electronic administrations and when it comes to countries coming from the EU. We remember the situation that was that as citizens, we ran from the counter to the counter. In Belgrade, there was a well-known urban legend described in a story that citizens run from the counter to the counter, that some of the counters are expected by the so-called so-called. The Mica counter killer and say a well-known sentence, that they lack another piece of paper, and that they have to run and play the counters again. It is now 2018, and this is no longer happening in Serbia. Now the papers and seals go into history and are replaced by electronic data. The savings are huge. If all the papers were lined up on each other, we'd have two Eiffel Towers. That's over 600 meters. So we'd have papers for the two Eiffel Towers. With the reform of e-Government benefiti in favour of economy and citizens are indeed multiple. When it comes to savings on an annual basis, more than 600m euros. We are actually reducing the duplication of the accumulated work, reducing the red tape of Serbia and allowing new services, new resources, new investments to come into our country. I am proud to remind you that in March of this year, Serbia won a prestigious world prize. Namely, the IT Office has been named the best of 685 participants from around the world, according to the World Summit on Information Society. The World Summit on Information Society recognised the establishment of the Office for IT and Electronic Administration and the results achieved in the fields of electronic administration as one of the key moments for the development of the information society and digitalisation in Serbia. The award came from Geneva and the award is a kind of recognition for effort, work, the pledge of Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, President of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, but also of all of us who in this House of the National Assembly have adopted all those laws and created this legislative framework to allow one of these reforms to be achieved. We must continue to plan better in this area because we have really for the first time a clear vision of what we want for Serbia. The results are really visible, and we can see them on every corner, from the formation of the first national DATA centre, the establishment of the National Open Data Portal, the automatic health book overture, the electronic application of entrepreneurs, payment cards, e-money, integrated economic banking on the E-Government portal, then the realisation of the truly phenomenal project "Bebo, welcome to the world", where it is allowed in all maternity sites in Serbia to register a newborn. That and a lot of other things. I wouldn't really be long. In Belgrade alone, we have more than 800 services, they are networked and tied absolutely to all state institutions at both the city and the republican and local level. We have satisfied citizens who only had more than two million services on this portal during 2016. If it continues this way, Serbia will become a leader in Europe for electronic services and digitisation, and we will stand side by side with one Estonia that is truly known within the EU as a country that reformed its E-Government system and whose citizens today, on the basis of only ID cards or mobile phones, can deliver a large number of services. At the very end, I would like to strongly condemn the hooligan act of assaulting the premises of the SNS Municipal Committee in Rakovica. This attack represents one in a series of attacks against the SNS, on our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, but also on the property of our party. Vandalism, hatred, aggression, calling for a Ukrainian or Macedonian scenario is the only thing our political insinuators offer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would take this opportunity to invite competent institutions in the Republic of Serbia to respond, to bring the perpetrators to justice. Serbia is a stable country and these kinds of violence are indeed inadmissible. We want to punish the perpetrators and punish all these kinds of violence that threaten our safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32852	The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32853	I didn't know Alexander Vukic was in the premises of the Rakovica when they were attacked, but that's not why I answered. I came forward because of the fact that a colleague who spoke earlier about this amendment said a series of data, a series of misinformations that really aren't true. In the end, she herself said she seemed to be talking about Belgrade. Serbia is not Belgrade. Belgrade municipalities are networked, but they are not networked, dear fellow municipalities from all over Serbia, and that is the problem. You have a problem with the ballot list, let alone some other networking. You cannot check the voter list at every spot in Serbia and today the dead appear on the voter's list and there is no single voter list and there are many more people on the polling list than there really are full-time citizens of Serbia. You're talking about digitisation, networking, like none of us live in Belgrade or in other parts of Serbia and we don't know what it looks like. What's the counter, dear colleague, where do you come in and get all the papers done and you don't need any more paper? It doesn't exist. Can you get a building permit based on what Zorana Mihajlovic says, to come to one place with a bunch of paper and then hand it all over to one counter? So, don't confuse the citizens of Serbia, it's not true, we have nothing against digitisation, we're working on it, it's not controversial, but it's not yet near what you want to present to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32854	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32855	Thank you. For the sake of truth, for the sake of truth, which is very important to me because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say the following official information provided by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. In 2014 and 2016 alone, more than 145 state institutions were networked at republican, urban and local levels. More than two million services were provided during 2016 on the central website of the E-Government portal. It is publicly verifiable evidence, you can also check at this point, the media have written about it, obviously you did not read well or you do not want to read about the successes and results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When I spoke, I was talking about 800 services being offered on the central website of the E-Government Portal. So, all citizens right now, now as we sit in the National Assembly, they can either use computers, laptops, cell phones to access the electronic counter. They were then the first users of that counter, they were first in line, there were absolutely no more rows and no more waiting. You can check that out, all those who e-ordered and documents and driver's licenses and health licenses and filed alimony requests, a large, large number, 800 services I said, I really don't have that much time to count all the positive results that have been evaluated, you wanted to admit it or not, by the UN, which in March of this year, our office, the Serbian office, the Office for Information Technologies declared the best in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32856	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32857	Okay, and the IMF has declared us the worst in Europe, so don't brag. I don't know where you got all that information you just got here. What country is that in? It would be nice to have it soon or someday in Serbia. You're talking about health books, people who didn't get them seven, eight, twelve months ago, which was supposed to come to the address, so not some until two months ago, the last health books were handed to people then. Don't, I repeat, let you, you've received 2,000 of those, 5,000 of those, 3,000 of those, imagine in all of Serbia 2,000 of some permits issued. So help the government of the Republic of Serbia to keep what they promised. It'll be nice when it's like that country you talked about earlier, when it's in Serbia, but now it's not nearly like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32858	Ljiljana Malušić, a member of the 1st amendment, submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32859	Thank you, President. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the Serbian plan system, which adds the 2nd position to explain, or whose aim is to reduce social differences. Namely, the plan system law in the Republic of Serbia is a continuation of the regulatory reform process and whose last phase began with the adoption of the regulatory reform strategy and the improvement of the public policy management system between 2016 and 2020. The development of the economy requires a good legal system, it must be transparent, it must be efficient, it must be predictable, it must respect human rights and must develop social prosperity. Namely, whoever invests first looks at the legal system, whether it's quality and whether it's predictable. No one wants an uncertain environment. We are fortunate that by coming to the SNS, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made an extremely favourable business environment of total investment, all investments in the Western Balkans 40% go directly to the Republic of Serbia. That's why Serbia is good for investment, it's a factor in stability, and that's why 60 companies opened their facilities and factories in the Republic of Serbia, employ 170,000 people. Two thousand eight years, 400,000 people were fired, and we hired 170,000 people. The unemployment rate in 2008 was 27% today, 12%, with a tendency to decrease. From 2012 to 2018, 8.6 billion euros entered the Republic of Serbia. Every honour thus reduces poverty by employment and investment and reduces social differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32860	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) colleague Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32861	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and associates, my amendment is heading towards connecting the affirmation of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on social equality. This law defines the obligation of the existence of several types of planning documents, above all I mean the obligation to adopt development planning documents that would contribute to the achievement of social equality. One of the documents that becomes a legal obligation is a plan to develop units of local self-government that will be adopted for a period of seven years, which must contain a clear vision. which must contain strategic objectives, priority objectives and the way in which these objectives will be achieved. In this way, it reduces the possibility for someone who manages a specific city or municipality to invest the money of all citizens of that city of taxpayers in some projects that do not have a plan base, so that those not planned for development documents, as was the case in Leskovac during the rule of the DS, when the management of the city without any basis without the existence of any planning document, the money of all the citizens of Leskovec, all the taxpayers, invested in the realization of so-called. The "bushhole" project, where they sought hot water and threw millions of Leskovec citizens into the well. The fact is that only the predetermined strategic development plans can be achieved properly, and thus achieve social equality and my amendment goes in that direction. I just want to point out my city, the town of Leskovac, as an example of good practice, since the SNS is in power, as regards the adoption of development plans, monitoring the implementation of plans, reporting on the implementation of development plans, as well as changes, or revision of development plans. This is not my conclusion, this is the conclusion of the National Alliance for Economic Development, which the town of Leskovac identified as a city with a favourable business environment, where the percentage of meeting the criteria is 92% of possible 100%. I call on my colleagues to support this amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32862	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Jevtic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32863	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the proposed solution on the proposal for a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia in order to add item 2 to ensure the affirmation of the uniform development of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolute ministries for the efforts they have made to tackle the problems of effective governance and to implement a series of activities that have helped make the plan system a cornerstone of efficient governance more efficient, more effective, increasingly transparent and cheaper. The draft plan system law prescribes the existence of several types of planning documents, which basically contain the foundations of development planning with the aim of building a system that will enable the country to develop evenly. The bill defines activities that need to be implemented by priority, that development plans from highest to lowest level are harmonised in a way that enables faster and more effective progress in all areas of social life, from local community level to republican level. In a two-way communication based on long-term development plans and defining instruments that will allow these plans to be implemented in real life. This basically means that each part of the country equally feels the benefits of the long-term planning mentioned and that each local community is the foundation that will take over part of the burden of development in proportion to its opportunities, all in order to develop the whole country at the same time. We are aware that the definition of a balanced development of the whole country is really difficult to implement, but as a form of support for this idea needs to be further defined in all legislative proposals, of course where possible, insisting that the idea of overall even development is further defined, which is, from all this forward, also the purpose of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32864	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Col. Petrovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32865	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system, which adds Article 2 and which reads - the plan system is afirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to tax liability. The amendment further defines the subject matter of this law. Planning in the public administration is necessary so that public policies and regulations can be well designed and formulated. The main objective of the plan system law is therefore to establish a system for transparent, efficient and efficient public policy management. In practice, it establishes an efficient and realistic planning system covering all key aspects of social and economic and development policy and regional and spatial development, with optimal use of budgets, environmental protection and sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. The regulation of a planning system at the level of the Republic of Serbia through the adoption of a plan system law will ensure uniform planning in the authorities of the state administration, which means an analysis of the situation before decision-making, the development plans and the establishment of mechanisms for accountability in the implementation of the planned one. Then establish a clear link between planning and budgeting, taking into account certain limits when planning. Editing medium-term planning in the authorities of the state administration, establishing a single information system for planning, monitoring and reporting. The establishment of such an efficient plan system achieves the best effects in the overall development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32866	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32867	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The law on the planned Republic of Serbia and I have proposed to add a position 2 which it says – the plan system is afirmed by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on capacity-building. I have submitted this amendment with the desire to further define the subject matter of this law, so that it can be explained in this way that all citizens can understand its significance, that we can bring it closer to the citizens and that, in this way, through discussions on amendments, we can further promote it. We've been listening to conflicting attitudes for and against today. Most of it is against, one part is against, and I personally don't see why anyone has anything against the adoption of such a law in the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, a law that regulates public policies within the Republic of Serbia, unless it's a marketing act, a marketing political act, and I don't believe it's politics, is it just a policy of apriors against everything, and it's not some policy, but it's a policy negation. Politics is when you have an idea, when with that idea you want to make something come true to advance your country in every field, to make it better, to believe in your citizens, to believe in your people. So I want to remind you of the words of President Vukic, not so long ago, a few years ago, which he says, we began to believe we could create. We believe in ourselves and Serbia, we have begun to change and to build on these changes the foundation of the country's own future and future. And so this law that came here, in fact when we adopt it, our desire for our country to Serbia, as quickly as possible, becomes stronger and better. This is the policy that we will be guided by, and that is why in the voting day, I call on us to support this law and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32868	Thank you. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Markovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32869	Thank you. The amendment that I have proposed to Article 1. The law on the plan system of the Republic of Serbia is envisioned to add a term -- European integration. Since Article 1 is the subject of the regulation of this law, it is perfectly logical to add this term, because this law regulates, inter alia, the management of public policy systems and medium-term planning as well as the process of determining and implementing public policies. One of the reasons for the adoption of this law is the effective implementation of the EU accession process, especially in the context of requirements arising from negotiating chapters 17, economic and monetary policies and chapters 22, regional policy and the coordination of structural instruments. An efficient planning system also includes the coherence of the planning documents at all levels with the commitments undertaken in the EU accession process. Of course, we cannot ignore the fact that the EU is the largest donor, i.e. that we are the most grants, i.e. development funds just received from the EU. So these are not loans, but the funds we used to implement reforms in many areas of our society and an additional one and a half billion euros from IPA funds have been available in Serbia since 2012. So far, of course, we have used three billion euros. The use of IPA funds is very high, at 94% of what it lists Serbia as one of the most successful countries in the process of Eurointegration. These funds finance concrete projects, such as infrastructure, schools, hospitals, flood recovery, but also support the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is absolutely important for young people, who want to start their own business. For example, in 2017, Serbia had 187m euros at its disposal, 20m euros for agricultural producers. All these funds I spoke about are available to our citizens, they can be informed via the Ministry of Euro Integration, through local self-government, in which they can apply or use them. These are just some examples of why I believe that the term of European integration should be included in Article 1 of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32870	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Pantovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32871	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 1. I propose that the bill on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, where the subject of the regulation of this law is defined, be added a position which specifically refers to increasing our country's infrastructure capacity. Why does this matter? Because every new mile of highway through a tunnel, built by a bridge, an industrial park, makes life easier for our citizens, new investors come and new jobs are opened. What I particularly want to emphasise, and most likely to be interested in the younger population is the innovation infrastructure. Young engineers, students, scientists need the best possible conditions to work and demonstrate all their potentials. That is why I am very happy with these major projects of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to set an example of building a science and technology park in Nis, where 10,000 square meters are built and the value of the investment is 10m euros. Also, a research and technology park in Novi Sad is being built, where the job will be obtained by 3,000 young engineers, and the value of the investment is 13m euros. All these scientific and technological parks will be equipped with state-of-the-art equipment and provide the best possible conditions for the work and training of our young scientists. We want to keep young people in Serbia from starting a family here and having a working relationship. Through these several examples, and there are many more, we can see why it is important to always focus on increasing infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32872	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP LJibuška Lakatoš submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32873	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers with associates, the adoption of laws on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia is a need to establish an efficient and transparent and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units covering all aspects of social and economic development policy, then regional development with optimal and rational use of budget funds. Education as a process of taking in knowledge, acquiring skills, developing abilities is an important segment of all social activities. It's a process that lasts all your life, it's a fundamental basis and an existential need of every man. For that very reason, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law, which adds item 2 to the plan system, affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of the school system. The school system is a system of educational institutions and represents the backbone of each system. Systemic planning and adaptation of learning outcomes to labour market needs, reducing unemployment, creating preconditions for the rapid development of our country, improving living conditions and raising the standard of our citizens. As an example of good practice, I would like to list the Municipality of Stara Paz, which has a long tradition of developing small and medium-sized enterprises and is leading by the number of investors and the creation of new jobs, where the planning schools are the profiles sought on the labour market, which has also contributed to reducing unemployment and raising the standard of living of citizens, which is what we all strive for, and this is also the way to a better and better future for generations to come. In voting day, I call on all my colleagues to support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32874	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32875	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, in Article 1. The bill adds the 2nd position – the plan system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of medical centres. This amendment wishes to further define the subject matter of this law. Healthy citizens are the cornerstone of every country's development, including ours, because only healthy can contribute to Serbia's social and economic development. In this respect, the health care system cannot be seen as consumption, but rather as an investment in the achievement of the overall development of society, since health has an important impact on the ability of people to live and contribute to social and economic development. Health should therefore be seen as an important and national resource that deserves continuous strategic development. In addition, the right to health and health care is one of the basic human rights. The plan to develop health care of the Republic of Serbia is primarily a professional and political document that provides equality and solidarity and gender equality with the focus on vulariberal population groups, on which the development of a health system is directed in line with the overall development of society. It defines the basic objectives and directions of health care development. The adoption of this document is based on the general social importance that health has. Accordingly, the health system has a vertical connection of the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, as well as a horizontal connection to the local community. Many health policy objectives in terms of preserving and improving the health and sustainability of the health care system in a significant degree are achieved, and above all, thinks about the development of a network of health institutions and the number of healthcare workers in them in relation to the number of people, especially in primary health care. The founders of a state-owned health institution are republics, provinces and local self-government. The highest degree of decentralisation was implemented at primary health level, given the founding rights, above the home of health, pharmacies, or primary level institutions taken over by local self-government. According to the plan, the total number of state-owned health institutions is 375, with a total number of beds in them from 38,590 and 525 per 100,000 inhabitants, respectively. There are currently 115 thousand employees in health institutions. It's 21,000 doctors of medicine, 75% of which are specialists in various branches of medicine. The nurses have 40,000, and the rest are healthcare workers and administrative and technical staff. Medical security for Serbia's 100,000 population is 271, while in the EU it is 321. So we've almost reached EU level. Serbia's primary health care has achieved the security of one doctor to 1,228 residents. Priority areas of conservation and improvement of the health of the population are areas related to the prevention and control of chronic non-infectious diseases, which are the most burdened by today's society, then, prevention and control of infectious diseases and the specific priority health needs of individual categories of the population with special reference to the preservation and improvement of health of the working-active population, as well as the achievement of the full health potential of people with disabilities. In voting day, the SNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32876	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. My colleague Obradovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32877	Thank you. Dear Ministers, chairman, fellow MPs, we have before us a set of nine laws in the area of finance, two laws on giving bank guarantees, as well as five confirmations of international conventions. With these legal proposals, we greatly improve the business climate in the Republic of Serbia and improve the conditions for new investment in our country. My fellow MPs yesterday and today, each from their own corner, have explained all the improvements and improvements in the legislation so far, making our Serbia a fundamental investment site, which we unsustainably grab to Serbia's position as a valued economic destination and leaders in this part of Europe. For anyone who wants to admit honestly and who knows the financial alphabet, this can be read from almost any of these draft laws that are on the agenda today. Each of these proposals shows improvement, acceleration, progress. The first proposal, a bill on the Serbian plan system, is the law of this session. This law, according to its opening member, regulates the planning system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the management of public policy systems and medium-term planning, types and contents of the planning documents proposed, adopted and implemented by participants in the planning system, etc., etc. But first of all, by this law, gentlemen, we show responsibility to the state. We have a vision. One word, we plan. After 12 years of non-domestic business, after 12 years of economic and any other collapse, after controversial privatisations, we have turned the economic wheel of history and we are unsustainably moving forward. In addition to what I said as a comment on the law and my amendment, I want to confirm, on a practical case, something called – what is the result of planing and managing. The mayor of Novi Sad City Milos Vučević plans and plans to run the town of Novi Sad, and as a result, since 2012, when he came to the head of the city and took over the management of the finances, the town of Novi Sad is not in charge of a single dinar. And about what he found and how much he had to pay back, I wouldn't talk. That's what the citizens of New Now know. The citizens of the New Now must know the following. The budget of the city of Novi Sad is not threatened by anything, nor by lawsuits based on unimplemented expropriation, which date, watch out, from 1980. Every government, and before this, which is governed by Mr Milos Vukevic, faced this problem, faces him. Everyone solves it in their own way, but Mr. Milos Vukevic has done nothing to make it happen. So, the city of Novi Sad, safe finances, safe budget and no money is in charge. That's how it's planned. That's how you handle it. That's why, like all my colleagues, I hope, I will support this package of bill, because progress has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32878	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. My colleague Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32879	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, Honorable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The plan system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to strengthening the state system". The law on the Serbian plan system will certainly lead to progress in the decision-making process and solutions in the Republic of Serbia at the republic and at the level of units of local self-government. What is important is that this law is closely related to the introduction of governance of public policy systems, because for the first time it regulates factors of the same kind, such as the document of participants and the measure of public policy. In addition, the timing of documents, such as medium-term and long-term plans, analyses that precede policy implementation and the analysis that come after policy implementation, are recognised. This law will contribute to effective planning in the Republic of Serbia and the management of public policies, tipology, the hierarchy of planning documents, as well as transparency in public policy making. It is unquestionable to conclude that there is a necessary, meaningful and comprehensive bill in front of us, through the need to improve the work of the entire system. If I may dare to commend the government's work, as well as the bill itself, without hurting the slim feelings of the opposition, and I will dare every time, believe me, because there is another bill before us that confirms a rational, successful and responsible policy-making and my absolute support certainly in the voting day goes to this law. I wonder what bothers the opposition when the work of the government and the president of Serbia is praised by Alexander Vukic? The government's doing its job and caring for the interests of citizens or the president who defends Serbia's sovereignty and independence by all forces, what are certainly the values that individuals in the opposition are easily charged by the currency? If by your presence, you could at least justify your declines, which have been provided by the mandate, however, you are largely absent in the hall, except for the needs of personal promotion. I wonder in the morning do individuals know which policy option they belong to today? I hear they're plowing resignations at the New Party presidency. You resign because, as you say, you feel responsible for the poor results in the Belgrade elections. You underestimate the political awareness of Serbian citizens. If you really have as much conscience as we know you don't have, do what's right, return the mandates of the MPs. It's just, I believe it's going to be very difficult for you to remember whose list you've given the same mandate. So let me get this straight. We will praise the work of the government and the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, because we have results to boast about. And I would recommend to my colleagues across the street that they add up their prominences and if they have any political responsibilities, but also human shame, not to return unpaid party functions, but to return the salary that this mandate allows them in this home. Now, that, dear colleagues, is called political responsibility. Everything else is just a public deception of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32880	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32881	Thank you. In every planned system of Serbia and in these laws, I will always try to draw attention to the overall development of the region. We are a spiritual and political space and must never give up what the region does and what Serbs do in our environment. Serbs today live very differently in different political systems in the region, some are in the EU, and just thanks to the development of the Republic of Serbia, the development of the Law towards national minorities, governed by policy, we can today say that Serbs in Hungary live quite solidly or much better than ever before. We have also heard from funds and large and significant investments with the Republic of Romania that this reflects the growing relationship and the growing lives of our countrymen in Romania. Unfortunately, in Croatia it is not such a case, and we expect that one of Serbia's policy plans will also make some shifts. Of course, I can't not talk about the region without mentioning the hardest and most painful part, the most painful place, that's certainly Kim where Serbs live the hardest today. On condition that I repeat myself, but I'll tell you. 1,700 years ago, Constantine the Great and Licinius Augustus, two great Roman emperors, brought the Milan edict. This ended the banishment of Christians, their killing, the kidnapping of their property, the burning of their houses, and the destruction of their faith. Only in one place in Europe today do Christians continue to be arrested, their cemeteries are destroyed, their churches are destroyed, their property destroyed. It's on KIM. No more Roman and Roman emperors to stop it. It can only prevent strong Serbia, strong economically, strong politically and, why not say, strong military. That's our future. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32882	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32883	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this article with Article 2 which I have proposed the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia will further affirm the overall development of our country, and in particular the development of regional medical centres. The public policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia is reflected in the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments, creating the most favourable conditions for the development of the state. Confirming the Financial Treaty with the European Investment Bank will implement a reconstruction project of four clinical centres in Serbia that includes modernisation, improvement, expansion and addition of these institutions in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. The Nis Clinical Centre, whose reconstruction and construction invested 50m euros, equipped with the most modern technique and appliances, is today the most modern health institution in this part of Europe. The reconstruction of Serbia's Clinical Centre in Belgrade implies building a new part of the building, as well as the rehabilitation of an existing building with 10 floors of which are currently only the first two in office. The value of this investment will be over 120m euros. 47m euros will be allocated for the construction of the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad and 29m euros for the construction of the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac. Also, the previous days have signed an agreement with the World Bank worth 25m euros for the second Serbian health development project. New diagnostic equipment, new magnetic resonances, new scanners and ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus will be obtained, as well as two linear accelerators and a CT simulator for the Vojvodina Institute of Oncology. These facts are evidence of the strategic and visionary policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which planly and fundamentally implement projects of vital importance for the development of our country. An efficient and realistic system of planning for the Republic of Serbia will create better conditions for continuing the reforms that aim to increase citizens' living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32884	Thank you. The National MP Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32885	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is being defined by Article 1 of the draft law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 by adding a position 2 which reads - the plan system afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving health conditions. Serbian citizens rightly expect changes in the health system and health policy that will bring them better conditions and improve the situation in achieving health care. This health policy is based on the constitutional and legal order of Serbia, which has been outlined by some of the countries of Europe that can serve us as an example. Care for health, better quality of life for all citizens will be installed in all state policies of the Republic of Serbia as the obligation of all institutions and individuals under the motto "All for Health, Health for All, Health More Than All". Healthy citizens are the basis for every country's development and prosperity, because only healthy contributions to social and economic development. In this context, the health care system is not a form of consumption. I underline – the health care system is not a form of consumption, but a type of investment in achieving the overall development of society. The proposal for a bill on the Serbian plan system, which concerns health improvement policies, comes after a collapse and collapse that has experienced a health care policy established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from 2002 to 2012. The collapse is the result of unfulfilled promises, unplanned improvist development, deliberate deceptions and party, humanist combinations, as well as corruption embedded in the health care system and, unfortunately, has become the leading devastating factor in regulating relations in it from which there is almost no defence. This policy has created a deep gap between health workers and citizens, and has brought doctors to a pillar of shame without reason, as corrupt officials, although the vast majority lives modestly and from their earnings. Therefore, the return of dignity to the medical profession was started in 2014 with the coming to the power of the SNS and resulted in the establishment of new trust and mutual respect for healthcare professionals and citizens, as an important objective of this policy. The health care development plan is a professional and political document aimed at developing the health system in line with the overall development of society. The plan is an instrument for further development of healthcare and changes to mark the next period in terms of improving and establishing a balance between efficiency and quality and health protection at all levels of the system, respecting the circumstances related to social movements, demographic changes, the level of education and cultural achievements of the population, the health status of the population, and a number of other factors that can affect sustainable development of health conditions. As far as health books are concerned, regular work relationship health books can be replaced as a pension book in a few minutes and when you are looking for benefits based on pension status, it is enough to give you an insight into the health book and see whether you are in the electronic system or not. So this amendment further defines the subject matter of this Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32886	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32887	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The law on the planning system, which refers to the protection of particularly vulnerable groups. First of all, I want to point out that planning in each country is equal to economic and social development, that planning in one country is a set of activities and measures that a country at a republican level, autonomous province or local self-government is implementing to achieve the desired change and goal in a particular area of social life. Then, I would like to point out that planning includes the responsibility of all actors involved in the planning process. I would also like to point out that the principle of social justice is one of the principles guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Well-designed social policies and how they contribute to social development, and how they contribute to poverty reduction and represent a significant economic stabiliser of a country. I would also like to point out that Serbia has adopted among the first to adopt a plan for reforming employment and social policy on the path of joining European integration, but not because it requires Europe, but to ensure prosperity and a better life for all citizens of Serbia. As far as social protection is concerned, I would like to point out that the Government, or the Competent Ministry of Labour, is taking all measures to establish an integrated system through the integration of all the institutions of the Centre for Social Labour, the Ministry of Interior, the Office of Immobilities, in order to form social maps. Why are they important? They are important that money donations are directed precisely towards the most vulnerable and the poorest and that social protection grants are fairly distributed. I must also point out that for the first time in the Republic of Serbia's budget, the government of Alexander Vukic provided dedicated transfers to undeveloped local self-government to strengthen social protection services at local level. The Municipality of Priboj is one of the units of local self-government that received these funds. I would also like to point out that this government is implementing a responsible economic and social policy, and for this reason we will support that law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32888	Thank you. National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 1st amendment. A fellow Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32889	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, where I propose that Article 1 add to Article 2 which reads: "The plan system affirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the development of the education system." For the sake of the public, let me just say for a moment that Article 1. In fact, the draft law defines and defines the subject matter of the regulation of the law on the design system and Article 1 provides for a detailed and comprehensive definition of the design system with objectives and benefits to achieve the relevant objective of this law. It should be recalled that in our history, there was an end of the fifties of the 20th century of five years of central planning, which had absolutely lost its meaning because of the trombone, the irresponsibility of the bureaucratic apparatus, the intricacies and the quantitative and qualitatively poor results of the 1960s, and in the 1980s it had gone into history. But in these last four decades, two decades of the 20th century and the first two decades of the 21st century, there has been intensive globalisation in the world at the level of trade, at the level of investment, finance, at the level of intense communication growth, and all this has led to the need to transform in all administrations of the world a rigid bureaucratic apparatus into a machine with a much better and more flexible way of working, as applied and a real comparison with the work of the apparatus in large corporations, where the ultimate goal is in fact to achieve the satisfaction of the end-user, and everywhere it is an ordinary citizen, as it is marked by – a client. So, and the development of the education system, when we look at the overall development of economy, economy, society, it's based on the development of education and education systems. Why? Because every citizen or any citizen of any country is going through an education and education system. Through these two systems he acquires knowledge, acquires skills and thus train himself for his existential work and life, and on the other hand he involves his knowledge and skills in all his country's social, economic and economic capacities. So, the development of education and the development of the education system will, through these planning documents, re-negotiately and consequently improve the overall development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32890	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32891	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the Serbian plan system adds Article 2 which reads: "The plan system afirms the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of the judiciary." The objective of this amendment is to further define the subject matter of this law in this way. As already said during the debate, the reason for the adoption of this law is the need to establish an efficient, transparent, co-ordinated and realistic system of planning of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government covering all key aspects of the social and economic development policy of regional and spatial development with optimal use of budgetary resources, ensuring sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Serbia including the autonomous province and local self-government units. Speaking of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, we cannot and must not bypass the issue of increasing the efficiency of the Serbian judiciary, since Serbia still today, not for a decade after the disastrous reform of the 2009 judiciary, is at a stage of correcting the consequences of this reform that has left a huge burden on all those working in the judiciary today and has had extremely negative consequences on the efficiency of the Serbian judiciary. It is this reform that the former regime carried out in 2009 that was the biggest disaster ever to happen by the Serbian judiciary, which is the one that was implemented in 2009 that is the worst blow to the efficiency of the judiciary, primarily because under the direct influence of the former regime, over 1,000 judges and prosecutors representing a third of the judicial staff. We must admit that over the past few years there have been significant results in increasing the efficiency of our judiciary's work, but the negative consequences of the touch reform are so great that we still have a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32892	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32893	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the esteemed chairman, respected ministers, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1 for the reason that I believe that a law that should define Serbia's future in the long term should be clearly defined and the obligations in these plans, in implementing this law, to take great care of social equality. In fact, as a state, we constantly have a situation to keep raising the economy and the state from the ashes. Today exactly 74 years since one of Belgrade's largest bombings in World War II was made. During this period 19 years ago, the NATO Pact's criminal bombing destroyed the infrastructure and economy of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens were killed, we were poisoned by chemical agents, polluted with poor uranium, the future of this country was practically destroyed. But somehow it seems to me that the biggest damage caused 12 years of peto-octobark paupers during the previous 2000-2012 period, and in the AP Vojvodina until 2016. Somehow, the bombing 74 years ago, we didn't ask for or call for, the bombing 19 years ago, we didn't ask for it, we had to defend ourselves, but in 2000, Serbian citizens allowed them to be deceived and to let these vermin get us back, I would say and return to the period during World War I. After six years, now that the conditions have been met, we must take care of how Serbia will develop its capacities in the future. It's about rounding up the infrastructure system. It is one of those important segments interested in foreign investors, but foreign investors will not take care of social equality. The time has come for incomes coming from the fact that foreign investors who work here, who open factories, which open plants, planically and systematically target those areas that we know will not be interesting to them, and this will take special care of the social equality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially in those areas that we consider undeveloped today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32894	The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32895	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as the subject of this law is, among other things, the establishment of a good system of planning for the Republic of Serbia, which involves social development policies, regional spatial development, with the rational use of budget funds, I would like to point out this amendment to the importance of seeing the importance of traffic integration and good traffic infrastructure. For the realisation of investment plans, development plans to achieve a better quality of life for citizens, create environments for new investments, for new jobs, it is certainly an important and good traffic connection through all the species that this area involves. In order to achieve those objectives, I shall provide an example of responsible policy-making, responsible and host activities of the Ub municipality's management. Only in terms of creating conditions for a better life for citizens and new investment is the fact that, through many plans, it is a priority that a good traffic connection is made. In the area of the Ub municipality over the past six years, infrastructure problems have been solved for decades. That is the case, the results of field work and the fact that citizens like such work, which are confirmed by the elections at all levels from local communities, etc. and give support to the SNS. Good management in Ub municipality responds to citizens' support for well-planned and realisation of projects that are real in the interests of all citizens and, in addition, the budget is stable, the finances have never been better. So, a good plan, solving the problem by priority, good law enforcement, fair and hard work absolutely provides Serbian citizens with a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32896	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32897	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia is directly linked to the education system, and perhaps best in the case of education, we can see how important planning is and how far there are no easy and fast solutions and easy and rapid effects. All serious countries with high economic growth, a high foreign trade surplus or money came through the privatisation or exploitation of some energy or something on the fifth, invest money in education with a firm belief that the long-term investment will pay off. Unfortunately, in the past, the Republic of Serbia has invested very little in education, and it is not that there was no money. Today, there was a lot of talk about privatisations in Serbia between 2003 and 2008 and some data at the time entered the country between seven and eight billion euros. As I said, unfortunately, a little of that money was invested in education, infrastructure, development, and it wasn't invested because then politicians didn't want to invest in something that would bring effects into some future, because they knew they wouldn't be in power. That is why they have invested in the current effects, in public spending, in the expansion of the public sector, in an increase in public sector wages that has not been economically justified, and perhaps the most they have invested in their own personal interest to the extent that today when the word privatisation is mentioned, Serbian citizens have a great sense of bitterness. The very word privatisation has become a synonym for stealing, thieving and destroying public goods. As someone said earlier today, we sold Mobtel for nearly two billion euros, and we created schools and health homes. Then only a few years later, we took very expensive loans, not to build highways and schools, but to fill in the budget. It's an example of how you shouldn't work, how you shouldn't plan and how you shouldn't spend your citizens' money. Serbia today does not want to sell anything, but only from its economic growth is investing in education, investing in development. I think it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided not to accept the status quo in this area or that it is trying to correct some existing laws, but that we have one new law that needs to solve the problem of ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness in creating public policies, and when it comes to education, I think that it is related to all the pores of society, perhaps in particular to the creation of public policies. That's why I want to stress this amendment in particular and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32898	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32899	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the Law on the Serbian Planned System is a whole new law. I would call it the law on planning the future of the Republic of Serbia and creating conditions for us to plan the future at the highest possible level in public, transparent, planned and targeted ways. We are talking about planning a future through which we are about to connect all those regions and all those local self-governments that have already started one accelerated development in 2012 and as things stand, by 2020, we will have, however much in the period of taking over government in 2012 and responsibility for the Republic of Serbia, with unemployment from almost 24%, and by 2020 it is planned and this plan will certainly be met, single-digit unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. Regional integration as a condition of development of the Republic of Serbia is of course a condition of development of all local self-government, but what is important is that Serbia is committed to the future, is dedicated to the present, but we can not forget the past, and unfortunately the past is when planning is just a bad example, or a disastrous example of how some governments from 2000 to 2012 systematically and plannedly destroyed Serbia, destroying infrastructure, destroying their economy, destroying their health care, economics and all that was to the benefit of these citizens, and the very Republic of Serbia. Of course, good planning has prevented disaster and disaster. What is very important is that all that is related to regional integration within the Republic of Serbia is a balanced integration, i.e. even development of all local self-government and regional integration, primarily thanks to even planning and good projects. Planning and plans are also related to the Balkans as a region to which we belong and without a strong Republic of Serbia there is no strong region of the Balkans. Without a strong and stable Republic of Serbia, there is no stability in the Balkans. What is good for our citizens and for citizens living in countries around the Republic of Serbia, that is, in the Balkans, Serbia is going a safe path, Serbia has a future, Serbia has good plans and Serbia will certainly be guaranteed a good future, not only for Serbia, but for all countries in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32900	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A fellow prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32901	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, the government has prepared a bill governing the plan system in the Republic of Serbia, aimed at establishing an efficient and transparent planning system covering all key aspects of social and economic development policy, but also introducing a system of responsibility for results. Of course, there have been plans so far, but these regulations need to complement the good elements that already exist. A good example of planning is the infrastructure that represents the key to development for the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia understood this perfectly and set the infrastructure as one of the priorities. Serbia is now a state, or territory of the Republic of Serbia is a network of corridors, which are roadways, which are railways. In the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we have over 12 billion current planned investments. We've been listening to remarks today that there's no plan, or that our plans are short-term. Since the SNS came to power we already have implemented projects, we have current and planned. We have repeated many times, it is clear what this is all about, but for those who have not understood what it is, I will only partially specify Corridor 10, then Nis-Medare-Pristina, Preljina-Pozega-Obrenovac-Ub, Lajkovac-LJig, the Moravian Corridor Pojate-Preljina, Belgrade-South Jadran, Požega-Sarajevo, the bypass around Beogada, Bubanj Potok-Panchevo, Novi Sad-Ruma, Ruma-Shabac, as well as the fast traffic of Shabac-Loznica-Republic of the Serbian. We have the "Zeljev Bridge" bridges and the "Ljubovija-Bratunac" bridge. Belgrade-Budapest for railways, i.e. railway corridor Nis-Dimitrovgrad, reconstruction of the bar track. More than 170km of railways were reconstructed in Serbia. "Nikola Tesla" and Niski Airport, as well as the restoration of houses in the Kingdom as a very important project, and from the construction of houses for security structures. So, I don't know what's not clear to the opposition across the street that isn't here today. That's how the SNS does it and, of course, the SRS gentlemen... (Miljan Damjanovic throws out of place. )......................................................................................................... who have never done anything of any quality except the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32902	First, I give my colleague Miljan Damjanovic's warning about the throw-off. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Sarovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32903	Mr. Arsic, you continue with your old practice of violating the Rules of Procedure. You've violated Article 27, you've violated Article 104, and that's... (Alexander Markovic: What attitude? Peaceful. I recommend to you, Mr. Arsic, that you show now that you hold the same archaic, so that nicely to this gentleman who throws it away, I've certainly honored him, but now you give him a warning. You sit in your seat and obviously don't follow the debate and you didn't mind the fact that none of the previous speakers talked about the law, didn't even talk about the amendments that were submitted, but it was as if it were a general topic. The other thing is, you're one of those Mr. Arsic, who should be personally hit when someone says the SRS didn't do anything right. We're a real waste of talent. You see, there wouldn't be a state if it wasn't for us. How much you praise this Alexander Vukic, and where he took his first political steps, rather than the SRS. Now, what happened at one point to this famous pro-European transformation, that's another problem. But, Malten, half here wouldn't have sat down if they hadn't had an SRS. They were all members of the SRS, defending her ideology, and now that they've pro-Europeanly transformed, they'd be giving us lessons. No, gentlemen, you're the ones who didn't do anything. If it were, you'd be talking about yourself, not Alexander Wolfiche... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32904	My colleague Sarovic, they can't break the Rules of Procedure, they can't break me. So you're talking to me, right? First, the throw was so loud that the fellow who spoke stopped talking. Now, as far as I am aware of the Rules of Procedure, during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech, Article 106(3). So be a little collegiate with your younger colleagues. We who have a little more experience can bear tossing someone can't. (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I haven't finished the answer yet. Because his colleague Knezevic was provoked by the rejection of his colleague Damjanovic, he mentioned the SRS and that is why you did not get the right to reply, because I had already had to react and warn my colleague Damjanovic. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32905	Mr. Arsic, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly, because you cannot share MPs here on any basis. You need to know and you need to know that MPs are equal, at least those chosen by the votes of citizens, not by the order of US Ambassador Scott. A junior MP, senior MP, bigger, smaller, blond hair, green eyes, that doesn't mean anything, it's discrimination and it's offensive. Everyone here has the same rights, same obligations, must know the Rules of Procedure, and you, Mr. Arsic, must know, and you don't know, and nowhere does it say in the Rules of Procedure, that someone who is provoked, as you say, has the right to violate the Rules of Procedure and to insult other parliamentary groups. It doesn't say anything. You said Mr. Knezevic was provoked, so he was allowed to talk about other parliamentary groups and to insult. If it's no insult to you when someone says you've never done anything right, it is for me and for the SRS parliamentary group it is. I think that's obvious. The problem is that you don't respect the Rules of Procedure, but pure volunteerism, as it suits you, what suits you. Sometimes you can do the replica on the line, when you like it, when you judge. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Today the minister has spoken for more than three minutes, he has no right, you've allowed him. You don't do it with MPs. So, Mr. Arsic, get back to the Rules of Procedure and don't judge us from the opposition, but be rigorous to the authorities first and foremost. You've drowned completely to say lethargy and maybe it's a good thing someone threw it away. Second, it's not the first time he's thrown himself. They earn the most from your MPs' group, but they never get, even in the event of serious insults, they never get a warning. Practice that strictness with them first, if you have courage and consistency.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32906	Comrade Sarovic, I don't know what I've offended and hurt my dignity or offended my fellow MPs, if I said that when I speak to you downstairs, you can throw it away, I won't ask the chairman to give you a warning. What have I done to offend you? You won't answer me. So your entire discussion comes down to some damage to the Rules of Procedure. I accept, and here you have been saying more than two minutes, I haven't interrupted you. It wasn't a second, it was 14 or 15 seconds. I'm not considering that at all. If the discussion goes in the direction in which the law and political views are discussed and the political parties' programme views and parliamentary groups, I have no objection until you start insulting each other. (Miljan Damjanovic: How are you not ashamed? Mr Damjanović, you have another warning. For everything I've said, I'm not ashamed, just like you just threw it at me and asked me if I was ashamed? If you regret getting a warning, take care of it next time. (Miljan Damjanovic throws out of place. You're not such a player that you can get away with words. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No one's here. Now, let me ask my colleague, Sarovic, do you want the Assembly to make a statement on your second injury to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32907	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32908	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32909	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, according to the parameters monitored by the Ministry of Finance, the accelerated growth of domestic demand, driven by the growth of personal consumption and private investment, is also confirmed by the real growth of profits and employment in the private sector. A positive contribution is also made by public investment, which is more fortunately increasing, and that these parameters will certainly be even better said and the arrival of German investments in the Serbian market. Germany is Serbia's most important partner, and the relationship that President Vukic created with Germany yields exceptional results for Serbia's development. The arrival of Simensa in Shumadi is definitely the strongest indicator that our market has become attractive for important companies. I would add that the investment in Kragujevac is not subsidized by the state. Germany's CTF comes to Pancevo with a 160m-euro investment, and more than a thousand employees will be employed in the company. Germany plans its investments in the long term, which means that the Germans see Serbia as a developing country. We know that the Germans are very capable and serious in business, and if someone needs to be seen, then we need to look up to the German business system. The law on the Republic of Serbia's plan system will, among other things, be systemic support for exporters. Exporters will no longer have to pay VAT in advance to seek a refund, but will not pay it by being exporters. Serious incentive for exporters and it is clear that exports will grow, although they already have a stable trend of growth, this growth will be much faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32910	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Martinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Mr. Komlensky. So in 2000, the Yugoslav Army was an impressive military force in these areas and after NATO bombings in 1999, the Yugoslav Army had in 2000, I will try to be precise in data, with 1,100 tanks, over 850 armored combat vehicles, more than 3,750 artillery tools of a large caliber, 155 aircraft, 53 helicopters. After 5 October 2000, during the mandate of the various DOS defence ministers, from Boris Tadic via Prvoslav Davinic to Dragan Sutanovac, our military force was completely devastated and the scales of that devastation are the fact that we destroyed over 800 pieces of T-55 tanks and that we have come into a situation that we do not have a practical army. We have an army again today. Our army is equipped and if there's any need for good planning, then it's in the defense system. I would like to say because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that in 2017 the Ministry of Defence drafted a draft strategy for the national security of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, the White Paper of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, we have developed a long-term plan for the development of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia and a medium-term plan and a programme for the development of the defence system. The goal of restoring Serbia's Army, the goal of all these strategies, plans and programmes is to have a strong army again, which will not allow actions such as "Blash" and "Storm" to happen to Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija anywhere else, both Serbs living in northern Kosovo and Metohija, and so on. enclaves south of Iber. I thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32912	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32913	In this Article 2, the corresponding amendment for Article 1, we continue to claim that there is no division in public or other policy, only public functions. Of course, we've heard the arguments that were all about, just didn't mean the clarification of this, you can say freely, unnecessary definitions, because by public functions it's distributed to local, rural and republican levels. What is very important and should not be forgotten when it comes to a set of these laws that you have proposed is that they are all, more or less, regardless of what takes effect in 2021, as part of this fight against crime. Now, what's very important here to emphasize? You are bound by this law and by the amendments to other laws that you will finally go into account against this kind of crime of money laundering, but we have been long for years, and the SRS in this term has pointed out countless times that it is necessary to present this Assembly's final bill, the spending plan for the past period. Here's the thing, Mr. Minister, you know it well. It's not the essence of crime that he acts or that he becomes unorganized, uninvolved in power. It can easily be prevented then, easily narrowed down, reduced to a bearable level. When it's connected to the structures of the government, it's a dangerous crime, and we have budget spending here that we don't know how and how it's spent. How are we supposed to fight that money laundering when we don't know how budget funds are spent? In fact, you're confirming to us our assumption that the state does not want, in this case the government at all, to illustrate how and how these funds are spent to cover up the background of all these actions that are related to financial transactions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32914	Thank you. National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? None of the applicants are here. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32915	In defining the concepts, Mr. Minister, and the direction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the area, as you say here and have accepted in this law, public policies, you have left out the AP Kosovo and Metohija, because Article 1 in Article 1 is listed only autonomous provinces. That was our intervention. I must remind you, both you and Mr Arsic, and all other colleagues and citizens of Serbia, above all, that it has been so disastrous for you to operate in the direction and area of Kosovo and Metohija, that by coming to power you have accepted the Brussels agreements, you have trampled Resolution 1244, the issue of status and life and all that matters in our southern province you have removed from the United Nations to criminals from the EU and started negotiations in Brussels. For reminders, which are facts that you cannot dispute, and today we listen to praises about various investments and projects, from Kursumlija to Horgoš, Mali Zvornik, Šapac, etc., there are no MPs, whether you are from Kosovo and Metohija or not, which mentioned that 35,000 people no longer have their homes in the southern Serbian province, and you have accepted this Brussels Agreement and thus brought Serbia into this situation, that it is becoming more and more difficult, noose around the neck, increasingly blackmailing until the ultimate blackmail to recognise the independence of the Cyprus quasi formation. So what do we talk about? A frog to you that you hope to explain to us that in Kursumlia, in Vranj, in which city are all these projects, and you forget about people who had to avoid their homes and forget about Serbia's treasure and that we were left without the Trepce combinations by 2016, since the Shiptari passed a bill on the blink of a combination, it still does not solve the issue in a way that Serbia gets what it belongs to. Nor will he be able to get rid of it. Because you're pushing all things under the carpet, all for receiving you where the enemies of the Serbian people are being witnessed, and that's the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32916	A colleague of Orlic's after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32917	I see there's a lot of misunderstandings, on a lot of issues, at the same time. I don't want to comment on it. It's pointless. The point is that the promoter did not understand the simple thing – the basic methodological rules. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32918	You don't have the right to a replica. He disagreed with the discussion. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I have the right to a replica.)]] You have no right to a replica. He didn't insult anyone, he didn't misread it. He said his position on the amendment. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. No, no, that's not gonna work. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32919	You have injured Article 27 and Article 107, because unlike colleagues who have reported to be talking about the amendment I have submitted, you are, however, familiar with both the Constitution and the law and the territorial arrangements of the Republic of Serbia. I guess you've all got this book – The collection of regulations, the Constitution and that Serbia has two autonomous provinces. And it's not about any methodological arrangement. Because by the time she stopped taking care of Kosovo and Metohija, which was done by the yellow ones before you, the law stopped citing autonomous provinces. Remind me, Mr Arsic, you should have done this now and that is your violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague that Serbia has AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija and explain, when you were a radical at the time, that it was in the laws that were in force until 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32920	I really didn't understand what I was doing wrong. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Jovanovic, while you are already showing this collection of regulations, the last act in this collection of regulations is called "The Unique Methodological Rules for the Making of Regulations". In the "Single Methodological Rules", which Mr. Orlic called upon nicely, the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities and autonomous provinces are mentioned in one. So when it is said "municipality", when it is said "city", it does not mean that there is only one municipality in the Republic of Serbia and only one city. And when said in a member -- an autonomous province, it does not mean that Serbia does not have two autonomous provinces. So, Mr. Orlic has only well-intentioned you on the unique methodological rules for making the rules. And as for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, as I recall, in Kosovo and Metohija, in January, with a people living in Kosovo and Metohija, Aleksandar Vukic himself spoke. Kosovo and Metohija are not defended from Belgrade and Kragujevac. It defends itself by going to Kosovo and Metohija and by solving the life problems of citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija. As the great Serbia is not created from Belgrade and as the Serb people in Croatia are not only defended from Belgrade, but also went to Zagreb, went to Vojnic, went to the Court of the Union, and talked to Serbs there, and there is support there for the Serb people who stayed to live in Croatia. I don't know, you seem to have mixed something up. What does the Serbian Progressive Party have to do with ousting negotiations from the United Nations to the European Union? That's what the Democratic Party did. What does the DS have to do with asking the International Court of Justice a pointless question about whether Kosovo and Metohija could declare independence or not, or whether it was in accordance with international law. Well, that's what Wolf Jeremic did. What does Alexander Wolf have to do with it? What does SNS have to do with it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32922	Please, take it easy. Your colleagues Jovanovic do not have the right to reply Please, because it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I have the right to a replica.)]] If you ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you my word. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? You don't have the right to replicate any damage to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32923	Mr. Arsic, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure again. Article 103 says that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly. Mr. Martinovic, I'm still buying with that gentleman... (Alexander Martinovic: How much does that cost? How much do I owe you? )......................................................................................................... He never spoke in his own word about how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic: How much do I owe? You're the chairman, and now you can take his notice to take advantage of those arches when someone throws them away, then you give him a warning. For a little while you gave Mr. Miljan Damnjanovic two warnings, completely undeserved, and it does not speak of your greatness, of your political courage, Mr. Arsic, but rather the opposite. Now as far as the Kosovo and Metohija defence topics are concerned, saying the yellow ones have begun treason is simply not enough. Telling the yellows they started the Brussels Agreement is not enough. And where Kosovo and Metohija are defended seems to be defending themselves now in Brussels. As he defends himself and what the result will be, unfortunately you know very well, and don't be surprised when someone tells you, you'll have to admit it. Well, first Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, a dead cold statement in Dnevnik, on national television that there may not even be an EU until 2025, that we cannot enter there because we are not ready to admit and it is obvious that they are looking for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32924	What's that got to do with a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32925	That's because you've been in debt to Mr. Arsic, here, once again, I've challenged you to show your true face, to stop Alexander Martinovic, who spoke for two and a half minutes, not to interrupt me, but I'm part of the opposition, and you are what you are, better not to say what, because then you will have the right basis to give me a warning too.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32926	Comrade Sarovic, you can't insult me. I just interrupted you, just for that reason to prove to you that you were much less in advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure than your colleague Martinovic and you used that right as a replica and a response to his advertising of the Rules of Procedure. So the standards are exactly the same. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32927	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. I don't mind, give me a warning if you think I've broken the Rules of Procedure or offended any fellow MP. As for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, as for the question of how far-sighted whose policy is, I must say that some MPs wore T-shirts with the image of a US presidential candidate and boasted that if he wins, a completely different policy towards the Republic of Serbia would take place, the relationship of forces in the world would change, peace would come, security, we would regain Kosovo and Metohija. So, what happened to those great defenders of Kosovo and Metohija who wore T-shirts with the image of the US presidential candidate? There's been a bombing of Syria. It's a different policy now. Now he's the one who's supposed to be the bearer of peace and security in the world of a war criminal. Now he's a villain, now he's the same as Bill Clinton. Now for the same reason he bombed Syria for what reason Bill Clinton bombed SRJ in 1999. But what surprises me even more is that some MPs who are in opposition and who do not bear any responsibility for the leadership of the Republic of Serbia will not bear in any foreseeable future, in all likelihood, simply serialise over the fact that the Republic of Serbia is in a difficult situation and that we really have different blackmails and different demands for Kosovo and Metohija every day and are now simply enjoying it – here, now you're getting blackmail, here, now you're getting a request. Well, of course we're being blackmailed. Well, that's what a wolf talks about every day. But it's not about whether we're being set up or not. They're setting up, but we don't agree to these blackmails. We defend Kosovo and Metohija and will not allow, as far as it depends on us, a new "Blash" and a new "Storm" against Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, but Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are not defended by insulting SNS MPs, but by leading a wise, rational, realistic and realistic foreign policy where the focus of the state of Serbia and its citizens, not the state of the West, nor the state of the east, but the only state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-16-0.u32928	We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
