ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30828	Good afternoon. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 58 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Dr Ivan Bauer, Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Mr Ivan Kostic. We continue the debate in order of the MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the first on the Muamer Zukorlic list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30829	Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the three proposed education laws and stress that these proposals are the result of a real need, as well as the necessity to bring our standards into line with European standards, but above all because of their own needs. So these two facts lead us to the decision that the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the voting day support these proposed laws. So the laws are due to the need and beyond any doubt they will remove certain disturbances that we have faced so far, and regarding the application of roof education laws. As regards the national qualification framework, this law will ensure that what is provided for in the roof law is effectively applied in practice. As for the Law on Educational Inspection, I find it very important, and even necessary, that we get this law as soon as possible so that the accumulated problems related to the number of educational inspectors, as well as the need for effective and effective inspection at all levels of education and education, therefore, to be able to do so. The inspection, or control of the educational inspection, is one of the key factors and inevitable levers in order to remove certain anomalies that are accumulated in our education system as soon as possible. I don't know what the situation is here in Belgrade, but in the interior of Serbia, especially in the Sandzak area, we have a certain concentration of various school-organised gaps, in the occurrence of abuse of positions by individual directors, in the appearance of a band between individual directors and individual centres of power, including crime factors. So these are common phenomena in Novi Pazar and other Sandzak cities. The inspection surveillance is not the only one, but a very important factor in order to contain these phenomena and to the extent possible eliminate them. As for the Law on textbooks, it also represents a very important step that has removed certain negative phenomena that we have seen in the experience of applying the previous law, which has already been mentioned, especially when it comes to so-called. low-level textbooks, as well as the possibility of applying textbooks in the education of national communities. But I wouldn't hesitate to mention the already mentioned appearance of heavy bags for lower-class students. This question has been treated several times, though, this question is sometimes a depraved irony, but this question is a question of child protection. The kid in the first grade can't carry a seven-and-nine-pound bag. So that's a question we can't escape, that we have to face. It is not directly related to this law, but it is for the application of this law and we need to find ways to update teachers, to arrange the possibility of using and protecting children from this phenomenon. In any case, the sooner we pass these laws, the sooner we can be in a position to face in the overall education system the essential problems, the problems of education and education, the problems that hinder us from being the main factor of a whole mental reconstruction of a nation that we need after 40 years of rule of communism and the 30 years of this chaos that we had in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30830	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic has given up. Next on the list is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30831	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers, ministers and guests, I would like to say that today our school is facing a major challenge, and this challenge lies primarily outside of school, not at school itself. Today we are witnessing the establishment and growth of a new system, a digital system, which is constantly growing and constantly expanding and represents a major competitor of today's form of school. Let me remind you that today a great theory is being realized in the psychological development of human humanity of Lavo Vigothsky, who said nicely that human psyche, or psychological development, is experiencing a shift when new tools are introduced in the process of knowledge. Gentlemen, this happened in the printing situation when people spread their books very easily and multiplied them. This is what happens today when the digital world grows at high speed, spreading data and information. A school in today’s form cannot compete with such a system that is constantly growing and multiplying. But can the school stand up to this system? You got it. What are the advantages of the school to be forced into reforms, and this government and this ministry have begun a serious reform of education in Serbia. What are the chances you need to pay attention to, Mr. Minister? The first chance is the difference between data and knowledge. Our teacher cannot be supplied with that much information and data to compete with one electronic database. That's impossible. Our teachers and teachers would turn out to be funny in that situation. But what can you do? You can force knowledge, and knowledge is one meaningful system in which these data gets some meaning, some sense. Look, the best example is the Mendelje system of chemical elements, where a complete chemistry is shown through one system, the complete base of chemistry is given through this knowledge system. This should be forced, such an approach and such a finished product should be presented to our children, if we want to move, and the shift must be. Another thing that gives priority to school, gentlemen, school must be the place of the full life of every student and every child of ours. Our children, despite the many networks, the Internet and the connection are allied, alienated, alone, insecure, slightly depressed and the school must be the place of their socialization, their encounter with others, their conversations with others, their growing up. These are gentlemen of the advantages of the school that we must force, like no other system in the state, the modern system, the modern apparatus of the state, we cannot find an optimal model in education. That's impossible. We don't know what needs will be in 20 years, what history, culture, what the economy will do at that moment, and then further educate teachers, we need another five to ten years for that profile. What we can hardly say, but let us take the model of small developed countries of our size, which today make the most significant progress in knowledge – Finland, Denmark, Norway, Spain, Korea, they have defined themselves as a flexible school, for flexible education. They don't have the system, there's no class classic. They have defined themselves to be a great role and initiative to the teacher, and that is the only chance. They don't have an object. They form it in the form of thematic modules, problem modules, and thus constantly modulate, involving, constantly improving time. We're talking about something here that we need to focus our school on. What matters and what I'm telling you right now is the only model of progress in which we can put our education. Our schooling can do it and our teachers are the frames to do it. What's also important to say is that we can't oppose what I said to what we heard yesterday, fixed textbooks that were given once and for all, written by one man, who betrays one publisher, and that's insane. Yesterday, last night, gentlemen, a new organ was discovered at an American research center. A new organ called the Instinct and found live, has no anatomy by dissection, a post-mortem, but was found live last night. If it were in that textbook, would it be published? In 20 years. It's the minister's advantage what you said. An electronic textbook is hard to make, but it's the cheapest. It is free to expand, by clicking "addate". This is an advantage, not “addete, ” but“ the day of judgment. ” That's an even bigger advantage. Every day, daily updates. That's the most important thing, gentlemen. I prepared my sub-specialistic exam last year from the most modern Brown Valdi textbook in 2015. He's out of date today. It's crazy that I'm buying a book at all, and I'm already entering scientific research and recommendations. That's what we need to teach our children. It's the only way. I am very pleased with your work in this difficult situation with lack of money. You really give new opportunities. We're going to reform the first, fifth grade primary school, you're going to round up something. These laws are brilliant. The right measure of European law. Something to give our kids a chance to get into a contest with a kid from Massachusetts or a kid on Kamchatka. What's the big deal? I want to say as a representative of the Bosniak people here, it is that you have truly shown effort and I will commend it, to find solutions to some of the terms which are the basics of the specialities of the Bosniak people. You signed the Memorandum with the Institute for Publishing textbooks with the Bosniak national council and it will produce new textbooks. I'm glad your Ministry is on the level of the task, which is not limited, which is the same for all the citizens of this country. Last night we heard that some nationalists are calling for Daniel Kisha, it's absurd. What Bosko Obradovic is saying, Kiš called banal ideology, the ideology of spine banality. All his life and his working life he has devoted himself to fighting these narrow national interests against humanity, against the speciality of every single man. What I'm trying to say is, which is perhaps an unfortunate circumstance for us to strive for one-minded work in Belgrade, which is the best model for transfer of knowledge. So the work of extracurricular, those extracurricular activities are most important in focus, and it takes a lot of time for them. Gentlemen, the kids in New Market are going on three shifts to school. We solve that problem. Schools have up to 1,900 students, which is an absolute record and that's a good thing. We look forward to it, it is a wasteful part of Serbia's future progress. Please, you have shown both will and desire and we have done in the last term, of course our coalition in which the SNS is in New Pazar, we have made three schools, beautiful schools, renovated one, doubled, renovated all schools, but we still have this ongoing problem. I thank you for your initiative in Novi Pazar, that with the help of European funds, you will try to secure a certain amount for building another school and kindergarten. Unfortunately, your initiative in Novi Pazar has been interpreted very wrongly and opposition representatives point out that you currently have six million euros in your budget for this use. That, gentlemen, six million euros is enough for five schools, but I want the citizens here for the sake of the public to confirm your initiative and say how you will help us, that it is through European funds, that you will be with our help, and the city of Novi Pazar has managed to find a plot and prepare an idea solution, that you will succeed with our help to get these sums of money. There is no fixed, currently on your budget. I will remind you that under the Criminal Code, Article 344, it is very punishable to present certain things that are manipulated and falsely conveyed and that such a thing is punishable for up to three years. In the end, I want to thank you for one good approach and I want to support it in front of my Social Democratic Party because this set of laws, of course, educational inspection is very important. Perhaps the most important part of these laws are those anti-corruption measures that are practically involved in each member. I especially ask that you, as a minister who really shows one wish, altruism do corruption with which we will have a struggle throughout our lives. We keep an eye on these things, because competition produces, gives the best products, but there's always corruption and there's always corruption, and we have to take care of it. Our leader, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, is a major supporter of school reform. We have an entire SDPS strategy, a platform. This is seen through the work of the ministries led by Mr. Ljajic, who always advances a certain thing and always gives them a new input and a new way of explaining and a new course in always good results. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed laws with satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30832	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30833	Good afternoon, I'd like to welcome all the MPs and the chairman and just say a few sentences on this subject. One topic is how to get in the way of corruption, manipulation, conflicts of interest. Of course, by laws and measures and by control. It's always the best system for a lot of people to control and as many as possible, then as if you turned on the lights, then the real space for manipulation is very small. With the new system law, we see here the role of parent advice as one of the very important factors in that part that they can only observe, not as teachers. Every time we talk about some measures, we talk about those bad phenomena. Let's forget that those better phenomena make up most of it, and only for those for whom it's meant to happen. We have a new category of external school evaluation measurements and it will soon be presented to the public, because we have closed the whole cycle five-yearly by our own measures. There will be a very visible chapter on Etos, and I would even like it at the university to be at that level as much as it will be in pre-university. But it's going to be about finance, it's not going to fit the teaching staff, the teaching council, any institution, to be represented by a director who doesn't have that kind of quality, because he's going to have less money. We'll have very clear mechanisms, rational and logical. Anything else would be an empty story. About the need for new schools. We have a small number of places in Serbia where it is, unfortunately we don't have any more, so it's always easier to find money, believe what we're doing right now. And why this story just came to the vacuum is two big jobs going to meet it. One is the process of a network that is currently being worked and there, known colleagues from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, because it is a different ownership ratio over other and secondary schools, etc., but we have put in place all the capital of the university's institute. These days, we're going to have very big announcements about what we need to do with all levels of education. These are topics that haven't been touched for decades. So we have serious problems right now in higher education, but we also have the knowledge that school is missing in some environments. I went to about 80% of the municipalities, with my eye on the video, into the schools departments in Novi Pazar, and counted the students, that's what I do everywhere, so 39, 40. Now imagine a teacher or teacher when in those 39, 40 have three children per JUP, where this is a terrible problem, he cannot maintain the concentration of the other large population in the department, let alone pay attention to them. So that's what we lack resources for pedagogical assistants. We'll have them for the next school, because we'll have electronic salary management, we'll know where the system leaks, and the leaks, and we'll be able to patch it up from the same budget. The building of schools is necessary, there will be priorities such as Pazar, certainly, and a small number of cities in Serbia, unfortunately. We have a reverse tendency, and that's a larger number of blank spaces. We started last year, on the case of Belgrade, optimization and resolved the issue of preschoolers in the good part. They solved the question of joining schools. In the part of the system law in education, there are now many good solutions, rational ones, not to waste resources where they don't need them, and where they need to be built, they will be built. With Minister Vujovic, I've already started working on this topic, and I think we'll be able to maybe from September 1st, a smaller number of institutions 10-15%, commit to single-minded work, because if we had all the money in the world, we wouldn't be able to project at that rate to raise capacity, but a new strategy, which will be linked to the existing one, which will start working these days by 2030, predicts that we are taking care of all of this. Until then, some things must be resolved by some priority, such as at least another primary school in Pazar, but secondary school facilities are also exhale.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30834	Thank you, Minister. The People's MP Nenad Konstantinovic has the words. He's not there. The word is Vlado Babic. Here you go, buddy Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30835	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow People's MPs, the Law on textbooks is arranged to prepare and approve, then issue, withdraw textbooks and textbooks, as well as manuals and additional teaching tools for primary and secondary schools. In essence, the textbook is a basic non-active teaching tool, used in educational educational work, whose content is determined by the plan and programme of teaching and learning. I will look back today on textbooks written in the language of a letter of national minorities, issued in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rebel national minority. Such a textbook can be a translation of an approved textbook in Serbian, and it can be accompanied by a textbook used for the realization of the tailored part of the teaching programme, and learning for those subjects that are very important and important for the national minority. The textbooks written in a letter and in the language of the national minority are low-cost textbooks, where production costs, i.e. printing costs, as well as dependent costs of retail prices are the same. Such a textbook shall only be issued where educational educational work is carried out in the language and letter of the national minority. The programme of textbooks in the language and letter of the national minority as well as textbooks on the subject of general interest for the national minority, on a proposal from the national minority institutions and national councils, and, on a proposal from the National Educational Council, brings the minister. National minorities, in order to be able to ask for the opportunity to issue a textbook in their language and letter, must pre-learn language standardisation. As well as the rebel national minority, after completing their work on standardising the rebel language, reached a position to already write and print textbooks for primary school students studying the subject of rebel speech with elements of national culture. For us rebels, the standard is something that we have prescribed through the dictionary, spelling and grammatical manual, which and what way, which is written by us rebels today in the 21st century, in our media, books and bettrists, essentially and how we rebels address the current authorities and state authorities. The standards themselves represent conditions relating to content, pedagogical psychological requirements, didactic and methodical processing, if both language requirements and design graphic, visual and technical equipment of textbooks, and depending on the form of media and purpose. For 15 years it took it to declare the standard of rebel language. The manual of grammar, spelling and dictionary should be out of the press by the end of this year. In this first edition of the dictionary are not the words of the Somborian rebels. For the preparation, writing and printing of this extremely important document for us rebels, it took several years of hard field work and research with most often linguistic phenomena, primarily the icon, which in the area of Subotica and Sombora, was well preserved in terms of using verbic and name extensions, as well as how to use the crashes. Namely, the native language is the cornerstone of every national minority, even so our rebel, in order to preserve the national identity of a minority. Throughout history, the rebels have nationalally identified themselves, so we have our language, our speech and our recognizable dialect. The rebels came to these premises 330 years ago, and the first book printed in the rebel language was printed in Rome, early 17th century. We're trying, since we have our own native language, we're going to succeed, because we want to get to the highest linguistic level. So we ourselves, the rebels, will take care of our language and constantly promote it. For many years, assimilation and disputing of the rebels as national minorities has been carried out. The peak of this assimilation and dispute took place in 1945, when the decree of the rebels was forbidden, to plead as rebels. All schools that existed in the rebel language were also abolished, so my mother was suspended in my hometown of Chollopje, which was attended by my grandfather by 1945. We have requested the authorities in the province to abolish this decree. This way, our national community, we want to put in an equal position with other communities. Now we have language as a kind of identification, which is very important and important to us. It is important that it starts from a dead end, so as far as the official language is concerned, at this point the Bunjevac National Council as the legitimate representative of us rebels will not seek a comprehensive teaching in the rebel language. Now our children, our schoolboys have textbooks written by this standard and in their native language. In voting day, the SNS will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30836	The word is Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30837	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister and the Chairman, we have a few grudges first and foremost, which is that these laws are not related to each other. It is that the Assembly has called again this session by emergency procedure and has united five different laws and five different topics on which we as MPs should discuss. Of course, the proposal and DS, the introduction of electronic textbooks, and of course we have nothing against it, and we should have discussed it earlier, but I have a question, Mr. Minister, whether you have seen the balance between the introduction of this law, between electronic textbooks, between the real situation, like our students, the material state of their parents, and the infrastructure of schools, transportation for students. I've been proposing a law here for a year and a half. I did not, of course, encounter the approval of the ruling majority, and I even suggested that I not propose the law, but someone from the SNS, to discuss it. We today have about 800,000 children in Serbia, which are covered by primary and secondary education. According to our records, 50,000 children are hungry every day. So, 50,000 kids don't have lunch. The law that DS and I have been proposing for a year and a half is that students whose parents do not work, not for all students, but for students whose parents do not work, that the state is obliged to provide free textbooks, free transportation from home to school, and free snack. A week ago, I was in the village of Ratari, and I visited a family where a single mother lives. Unfortunately, she lost her husband. Her daughter, who attends the third grade of elementary school, got her bus driver kicked off the bus because she doesn't have money for a ticket. It's a reality in Serbia today. I'm not saying it's your fault. I'm not saying it's this government's fault. It has been a problem facing Serbia for many years, only the problem is lower or higher. How do we explain today that children should use electronic textbooks? It's normal and it's okay and it's happening everywhere in the world. How does a child get parents who don't work to provide pills or a computer, first of all, pills to use an electronic textbook when the child today doesn't have lunch, when the child is hungry today, when his parents don't work? Have you seen the balance between low-income educational workers whom the Serbian Progressive Party has reduced incomes? Did it have to be because of the country's financial consolidation or not, I don't want to go into it at all, saying that the Democratic Party has proposed that electronic textbooks be introduced, but is there a balance and is the compatible situation between our parents' pockets, our educators and this law? If you proposed this law on the threshold of what the prime minister said a year ago and a few days ago, when she was elected, that Serbia would deal, that the priority of Serbia is digitisation at a time when 60% of Serbia has no sewerage, when 60% of Serbia that has wells has polluted water that it cannot use, and no city water supply has reached, it is wrong. You can't buy a new TV at a time when you don't have a roof or your roof is sneezing. I'm not saying this law is bad, I'm just asking if it's compatible with the material condition, especially the parents, and then the student? I note that defeating the data that only 17.3% of Serbia's population is child participation. I also suggested here the law that all married couples who do not have children of the state provide free out-of-body insemination and that law did not come to the agenda. That's it. I don't have any more time. I'm really sorry. These are extremely important topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30838	Thank you, fellow Milojich. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30839	You certainly listed many important topics for the life and work of any institution and indeed diversity in Serbia and poverty, I see it, I know and I have visited schools right in the municipality and in some villages where you lived, saw that there are still Polish councils and we have already found the means to overcome it. There wasn't a project either. To solve big questions, I'm always in favor of taking those little steps that can be solved. We've hit one project that's in the twenty-twenty horizon, it's about school cuisine and nutrition. So we left it as a resource and we're rebuilding it. So we're going to see what our capacities are, and somewhere in our student standard, somewhere preschool institutions have high capacity. That's two questions, one is food safety and quality, which really when we go through external suppliers, we're never sure what we're going to get. There have been many cases of various poisonings. This is where school becomes someone who can make a significant contribution. If we're saying that these textbook laws need a cheap textbook and it's distributed by a student cooperative, it's 15% savings, so times a student's money isn't a small money. I suggested that one piece be given to uniforms, one part to snack, which we're talking about and can be helped while the state is richer to do it all right. I think it's a good model, so we don't sit on our hands, that we can do anything ourselves. You have very high-quality schools, high schools that produce what-what. They have great capacities. I was in Palanca in high school. That's where 300 million dinars will be invested. That school deserves it. She herself did a lot of things where she was worthy and respected for it. Believe me, when it comes to buying pills, that's what the state will do. We have very high items and credit that will realise our ministry, along with the Ljajic ministry, which is in charge of the network, and we are in charge of equipment and training. I tell every mayor where I go – don't give them any stuff, start the pills and we'll do it. We were able to equip enough schools without money to get the information going and she left. So we're working on it and we have donors all the time. We always have donors, and we don't give it up for the story to go the right way. The Internet. We'll know at first some kids won't have a home internet, they'll have it at school. Therefore, where the administrations are located, they will move on to the extended working room at school, where learning and Internet use will be linked. That's what we've been taking care of, really, and we have these kinds of environments. So many teams at the Ministry of Education deal with the everyday issues of this earth. Believe me, it's completely different when you read the report and when you go to the scene, you meet people and you see it as a situation, but then we encourage people. There's a lot they can do on their own. Somewhere local self-government is richer, somewhere these questions are resolved. So we're making a story. If you ask me, I would provide every such student with shoes and a jacket, and then a question of free textbooks. Someone who can pay for everything, now is not even a philosophical question. At this point, you really don't need to pet him, but you need to focus that money on exactly what you're talking about. So there's still a lot of work to do, but I think that's exactly what you're counting on us and we're doing. A ride. So there's no situation yet that we haven't heard from some local self-government. A question of the work of the school administration? We've changed six commissioners. So, for such things, money is found, for transport in Kosovo and Metohija, on all other items, and indeed where only local self-government has not done its job or has shifted money for some other thing we interfere and are looking for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30840	Thank you, Minister Chareksvic. Next is MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30841	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying that the best tuition is the one that gives up, and the best school is in other people's mistakes, and the tuition is the cheapest, and that's why I'm saying, since the previous MP who talked to us here trained how hungry children are, we need to learn from their mistakes, from the mistakes of people who spent three billion more than the budget allowed. They spent five of their budgets more municipally than they had right to, so when we take someone to talk about the buns, let's say his right-hand man, Srboljub Simonovic, called the Serb Sisavac, I would say the mammal, paid 2,610,000 dinars from the municipal register to the Charplaninac Association. Go for the Char Mountains...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30842	Go back to the topic, Mr. Rističević, please – The Law on textbooks, on educational inspection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30843	Mr. Chairman, we're talking about education, we're talking about more laws, and if I say that tuition doesn't have to be paid like this, that the textbooks should say that the Charplaninac Association and the Char Mountains should not get 26,000 children's meals in a year, then that's how the textbooks are related. The textbooks do not say that, for example, a certain tabaji, named Igor Milenković Puss, a former boardman and a bandit family, who for a football municipal club, has to enter textbooks, paid 21.717.585,00 dinars in a year, so over 200,000 euros. So here you have over 210,000 children's meals and when someone who is in his village from Glibovac, represented by Sasa Stevanović Shaki, godfather, literally godfather, gets 15 million dinars or 150,000 children's meals, when one who drinks for one night 457,710,00 dinar, this is to be entered in textbooks, and drinks 343 beers - 65 bottles "Lava, 135 bottles "Tuborga", 143 "Hanekena"...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30844	My colleague Rističević, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30845	Well, he's got to get into the textbooks. When someone drinks four thousand and something...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30846	I don't think it has anything to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30847	How does it not matter? Would you like to talk about the commission?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30848	The textbooks, the educational inspection...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30849	Of course we can talk about the commission, because there's a set of laws here. When someone spends children's meals like that and makes a list of public money, then when they speak, they need to understand that they're foamed cheeks. From their cheeks, you can make soldier's cocktails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30850	The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Dubravko Bojic. Here you go. [[Gordana Comic: Chairman, should I ask for a replica or not? When we talk a little bit about cheeks here.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30851	You've got to stop my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30852	I will. I'm sorry, go on. I answered to my colleague, Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a well-recognizable manner of government's work continues to be delivered to the National Assembly by draft laws to be voted upon by an urgent procedure. As there are three education laws on today's agenda, the SRS believes that these laws should not have been united in any way, but each individual should have a separate discussion. Education must be seen as daily, as scientific and as a national need because education is the most important social activity. The knowledge, values, attitudes and convictions we adopt through education direct our lives. Of course, education institutions are not the only ones where knowledge and values are acquired. There are media, social networks, the Internet, and yet formal education and education has and should have a crucial impact on the design of our views on the world, style and way of life. A number of ugly phenomena in our educational reality, such as the problems of the relationship between the system and the real life, between professional and political, tradition and modern, financing and spending money, the national values of the education system, are we properly defined and are we using education in the right way as a national resource of development? The basic question of new market behaviour in education is what is paid, and what is obtained for the money that the state singles out for education, does the expansion of business in education contribute to its quality? The Serbian Radical Party considers knowledge to be one of the basic resources of society and individual development. There are knowledge that leads us to freedom or slavery, in truth or in error, in the general good or selfish interest. These are the fundamental reasons why organised society, which we must be, must take responsibility for the state and development of education institutions and their functioning. We have an increase in the number of educated, but also an increase in the number of unemployed. We're running a lot of personnel, and we're neglecting their quality and expertise. This trend has also contributed significantly to Bologna, which with its giving, not to say by sharing accreditation for study programmes and institutions, has significantly ruined the quality of education and has led to a lot of calling, and little knowledge, i.e. to a lot of diplomas that don't have knowledge. There is no more drastic form of economic undermining of the country's system than the production of incompetent and unprofessional personnel. Such examples, unfortunately, are many. Is there anyone in this room that doesn't know someone who's taking a position that has a qualification, but unfortunately not a ability? Quality education at all levels is a stock for the rapid development of society. The school does not define the objectives and system of the value of education, it is the responsibility of the state. Society requires schools with knowledge and skills and values to pass on to a young generation. The school does not appear in our terms as a transporter of desired values because society has not determined them. Politics forms power, but also human character, because decisions are made with good or bad consequences. In Serbia, there are more and more young people who do not use their skills in the profession they perform, not because they do not know, but because they do jobs that do not correspond to their formal education. So we have knowledge of unemployment or knowledge of work outside the proper profession. Every society needs to build up a certain ideal of man. What ideal is this in Serbia in the twenties of the third millennium? Young people need applicable, practical, and useful knowledge. Teachers and textbooks play a crucial role in this. The teacher knows the knowledge of his subject and his discipline. We need firm criteria of quality of teaching. This means both ethical and educational requirements in the value standard of textbooks. The textbook must contribute to the development and preservation of the national and cultural identity of its people, to support a tolerance towards other ethnic and religious communities. The textbook affirms the principles of democracy and human rights, respects gender equality, which contributes to establishing a positive relationship with work, knowledge, social solidarity, building positive human relations, but at the same time, the textbook must also be accessible to all those who use it. Speaking of textbooks, his choice and application, I can't help but point out a phenomenon that has been retreating since the time of my studies, which is that many teachers condition, not to say, blackmail students to use their textbook or script. In this proposal, the Law on textbooks has a lot of problems in Articles 2, 16, 18, 19, 23, 34. There is no direct link between raising the quality of textbooks and improving the quality of education. The book is only a passive factor in the active interaction on the relationship student-teacher. The law treats more technical, not content, ethical, educational, learned dimension. For example, it is said that they have a negative impact on the quality of textbooks reduction of fees to authors, reduction of the number of illustrations of color textbooks, selection of less quality paper. The essence of the law is not the procedure for approving textbooks. In Article 18, no standard of the quality of textbooks, whose frameworks consist of the materials and achievements of modern science, the adjustment to psycho-physical, adult and personal educational needs of children, pupils and adults is not developed. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the Law on textbooks should point to a problem of overload with unnecessary content at all levels of education. I'll tell you the case from my practice at the Mathematical High School when, at the end of the 1980s, the then director, Professor Milan Ras Popovic, struck the foundations of the Mathematical High School, as a visual specialized school, a decision was made to abolish a foreign language. It was very unacceptable for us at the time, left the English language as the language of the profession, and the German, French and Russian were thrown out of use, out of the program. Since then, no city, republican, regional, Balkan, European, global competition, the mathematical group of subjects has passed without countless medals that were won at the time by the entire nation's students of the Mathematical High School. As far as the Law on Educational Inspection is concerned, he has only 24 members, unlike earlier laws, now everything is in one place, in one law. It is not apparent from this law how the number of preventive measures will be increased and the number of measures imposed will be reduced. In general, inspection supervision was arranged in the educational area. For example, Article 2 states that an educational inspection in the exercise of inspection is an examination of the application of the law. The work of an educational inspector of inspection supervision is not an examination of the application of the law, but also an order and a ban and the annulment and filing of the application and the order to remove irregularities. So, very precise things about deadlines and carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30854	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30855	I agree with my colleague, Boyic, most of the time, on everything and on the joint work he and Prof. Raspovic, who is my friend and who should be mentioned in this home. We are now working on getting special status in Serbian education, as has been given to the Institute of Physics, is under procedure only to inform you. There's only one termological story here. So the law will not stand for quality standards as a elaborate model. It's not done, that's how the lawyers said it. It's a special document, so we'll be following along with what I'm talking about. You and I know from pedagogical practice that from the implementation of the curricula and the programs and skills of teachers... The document is being followed and it's helpful and it's very important, but it's not crucial. If you were to appreciate the work of the school you mentioned, and I believe that more contributions were made by the basic work of the teachers themselves and the program that was created, than you did in the textbooks, you created them yourself. So we're talking about the evaluation of someone's good work and the outcomes that that teacher achieves will certainly be put through the components of the textbooks they have chosen, but that's what we're trying to do. What is also very important, education goals are, of course, already defined by the system law, the ZOS, which we adopted here, so that there are no dilemmas, and supervision involves only the questions that you have said and, of course, that it is elaborated on what all the inspectors must do, the hierarchy of what is municipal if they do not do either urban or rural, what is the role of the Republic. I think that's what we've covered, and we wanted to be more efficient with that in mind in order to make it clearer to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30856	Thank you, Minister. He's got a word for it, Professor. It's a crayon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30857	Thank you Minister for allowing me extra time to round up our story. We mentioned this inspection and inspection law. Last time we talked about education, I was against you, not as Mladen Sarčević, but against the authority of the minister, among other things, that the minister chooses and appoints all the heads of school institutions in the state. You were then given power, freed hands. In practice, however, it is not. You have entrusted the affairs of educational inspection and inspection to the municipal and city services. You know the state of the field that, and when we know all the points of the agenda can be these inspections, which all anomalies, irregularities, irregularities, violations of the law, perhaps crime, and they are protected by municipal or power of local self-government. So you've got your hands tied, practically.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30858	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30859	I don't think it's a replica, but here is Minister Branko Ruzic, as we are talking about the jurisdiction of local self-government. I never idealize the situation either, the way it is. If we don't take action now and do it together synchronisedly, it remains to rule out some of these, under quotes, powerful men. I'm now getting suggestions for the director we've warned five times, who's making fake departments and doing everything we've forbidden and with full right goes re-election. Here, capacity, of course I won't sign it. There's still something going on between my legs, that's for sure, we're just getting started. So, most of you know that law enforcement is a problem, and I don't really want to derivate the story of the Minister's powers without the right to decentralisation. There's a whole society on the exam right now. So we have to give ourselves that chance. I spoke with many ministers of education, and I liked the way people in Portugal did. We Serbs say Portugal, and most say Portugal. It's just that there's really a balance to it, what to give, a question of the maturity of all the self-governments and teams that work there, but that's what we're going to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30860	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30861	The new law will not improve the state of inspection, and you said, I think it was yesterday, that it will not be resolved by inspection of the system. The number of supervisions you have carried out in 2017 when divided by the number of days per year, including that day of the weekend, turns out to be twenty of these inspection controls per day, which is in any case a negligible number. In 2017, only five criminal charges were filed, and only against every 30th, a request was filed for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30862	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30863	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday, we are discussing three sets of laws that are from the field of education and, Mr. Sarcevic, it is important for us from Unique Serbia that they are in line with the reforms of education in Serbia and that they bring us new quality in education. That is why in the voting day, I will have the support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. The current Law on textbooks was adopted in 2015 and then there were various criticisms on this law. I believe that the proposed Law on textbooks that I speak of today is the best and most complete in relation to the previous three passed laws. The Working Group participated in the preparation of this law, and I have been in conversation with the President of the Union of Blind and Weaksees of the Kings, and I have learned that you, Ministers, have invited representatives of the Alliance to attend a meeting, to deliver all the necessary solutions that need to be inserted into the law and that you have accepted their suggestions, which is certainly commendable to you and your cabinet. It is this proposal of the Law on textbooks that brings us the newspaper, which is the price for low-cost textbooks, which should solve the textbook's problem for the undersighted children whom the publisher did not want to print because of a small number of circulations. What schools used to do in the absence of textbooks and assistive technologies is that they mostly increased copies of existing textbooks, but I think there is another problem in education of blind and impaired children – the lack of pedagogical assistants, who would sit with blind and undersighted children and help them master materials that were adapted to children without disabilities, and not them. It is important for us from JS that all our citizens, especially children, have the same conditions for a decent life, and especially for education, but about the problem of pedagogical assistants, not to be too much out of the topic, I will talk to someone else at some other time. The proposed law received positive comments from the professional public. From the Association of Editors of textbooks, they estimated that this law dealt with problems systematically and that it was very good that the Working Group participated in the draft law. One of the biggest changes proposed by the law is the 5% quota for school textbooks. The previous law defined 5% as censorship by ranking textbooks. If they don't make a choice, they're cut off and they haven't been able to compete for three years. It was a difficult environment for large publishers, especially for a number of small publishers. Under the new law, textbooks are chosen for four years. As the parent of a schoolboy and a future schoolboy, it is very important to me, and I would like to commend that this bill introduces digital textbooks. I know it's a very expensive area and it takes a lot of investment, that it needs to work on training employees, but it's something that needs to be introduced into schools for a number of reasons. The first reason is because our kids are running away from school because they're bored. We need to motivate children, to have a way of learning in schools follow modernization, to make their lectures interesting, and focus on talking and discussing with students on the subject. Everything that's done at school ends up at school, so the homework that would work at home would be minimal, and the kids would have more time for socializing and out-of-school activities, for example. Sports. The second reason for the introduction of digital textbooks is that the weight of school ranches will be reduced, and you will agree that they are too heavy, that the average weight is about six, seven kilograms, and that is why 2/3 of our students have a bad attitude, and even 90% of our students suffer from some deformity of our feet. The rule is that a student's bag can't weigh more than 10% of the child's weight, but in practice it's different. The third reason, and I think it's for parents and most important, is that the introduction of digital textbooks will cut costs by about 15%, which is not a negligible item for a family budget. For the first time, according to the Strategy for Encouragement of Birth, each third and next child will receive free textbooks, which is certainly commendable, as well as free textbooks for about 90 thousand founders. I would also like a few sentences on the National Qualifications Framework Bill. This law is important for bringing the education and labour markets closer together. For your ministry, Mr. Sarcevic, it wasn't an easy job to make draft laws, and I know that the National Framework has been working for the past 10 years, and mostly within the framework of project initiatives. 21 institutions participated in the Working Group that worked on the law, and this speaks of the complexity of the problems solved by this law. This law covers all existing levels and types of qualifications acquired by formal and informal education, independent of life. In practice, the aim of this law is to link standard qualifications and standard occupations and to present themselves through the register to future employers and of course to citizens. Because of what I have stated, and as I initially pointed out, the JS parliamentary group will support the draft laws on the agenda of this session in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30864	Thank you, colleague Yevdzic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30865	Thank you. Since I have a chance to know the public from, at least these two thesiss that you mentioned, which are personal escorts, teaching assistants as we call them. It's easy just to write and ask for money from the budget for this or that. You know, I'm simply aware of how many states there are. The country, thank God it's more developed, the economy is stronger and it's going to get more and more. That's good news. But the same news is that the system I found is very hollow. I say that all the time. So, on foot making wages, etc. People move a little bit, here, there's a job, and I know it's done. I've warned almost all the institutions that they're treating Cenus properly, that's the rule that, uh, the new one's made. They're going to be running these days. I didn't want to derange my parents to repack children, wards for pedagogical reasons. Otherwise, we know there's a lot of hidden norms in there, and that's something we're going to use as one kind of personal capital. So, without a new attack on the budget, just one rational household behavior, and by working on a unique educational electronic system, we're building a group that will make salaries through E Cenus. This will make it very clear on the click state and no one will be able to form a fake department or to appear more employees. That's what you do. That's what we're thinking about bringing back one of the resources, exactly what you're talking about. I thus indicated the return of the capacity of psychologists, educators in that volume that was prior to the reduction. So we think we give a more significant role to the asset manager, the director at the community level, or some local unit that's optimal, and they're the ones who carry out the work with the community councils of parents. So we're designing a new system, so we have money inside the system itself. We'll be treating him rationally, and you'll see this from September 1st. So we're working on it intensely. What you said, school is boring. That's what most kids will agree with you, but we make education reforms not to be. So, first and fifth grade will have the opportunity and first high school to work according to the model that it's interactive teaching, that it's multidisciplinary, that it's problematic, that children really have objects and the opportunity to show that knowledge in practice and to apply it. We'll be waiting very soon for the P.I.S.A. next month. Already, I said, we will certainly have a better result than in previous years, just by being able to make an important step towards financial literacy, that fourth component that we skipped, it wasn't even before. But the serious preparations will be by 2021, and if we get all this through the system and through new plans and programs, and that change in the way we do this, when we're done, we've had a chance to train 80,000 people. It's already been trained somewhere around 600 executives. These are the basic jobs reform requires for this to happen. We can't just say - well, we'll make it more interesting. This resource is absolutely electronic to children, because if you imagine a cell, something that is abstract, how you'll imagine the difference of plant or animal at the age of 11 years. They'll have a clip, they'll look, they'll really be able to touch, it's quite different. It's something that'll give them their story back at school. Of course, someone said here today, talked about extracurricular activities, possibilities for children to be longer at school, and that's the goal, and it's going to be part of a new strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30866	Thank you, Minister. The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you are, colleague Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30867	Thank you. I welcome all present guests and express my surprise as to why Mrs Zorana Mihajlović is not present here, as well as Mr Goran Trivan, because the law I intend to discuss is the Law on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data. Unfortunately, I'm going to have to spoil the little harmony that has ruled here for an hour between MPs and ministers and give a realistic review of this law. You, Mr. Ruzic, try and answer my questions after I see that you are in charge of the law, since Mrs. Mihajlovic is not here. You can also defend yourself with silence if the questions are difficult. Please, without a little parliamentary bonton, I demand. I think it's a minimum for parliament. All laws are equally important, but as a rule those who are most expensive and those with long-term consequences in these congregation discussions are put to the end. So in particular, which is a great shame, we probably won't even be able to discuss this law. The law is bad. It was a good idea. It was made under the EU directive, adopted on 15 May 2007, but was improvised and adapted by the motionor to his needs. The Inspard Directive, to explain to the citizens of Serbia, which has been discussed here since 2009 in the professional public, is still unknown, and in Europe it will fully live by 2020. This is primarily a directive designed to establish a single infrastructure of spatial data in Europe to support joint decisions in the area of environmental policy above all. To clarify, in the practice of INSPIRD calls for a unique description of spatial data, as well as their availability on the Internet with the ability to search, visualise and download. Or even more to simplify for the citizens of Serbia, let's say I take on the model of the town of Cačka, you're interested in the town of Cačak, you can enter the database, see everything about the land in the town of Cačka, the catastrian plots, all the plans that were former, since they overlap. So you get one complete piece of information, and if you want to say you're investing in it, you can come up with what's going to negatively affect your investment. However, it would be good to introduce this law if there were no previous preconditions that were not met here. The last state diameter was done in 1981 in the part of the cadastrian diameter. So it's not a combined diameter, diameter of the water, topographic diameter, diameter of the state border. So we don't have the right spatial definition of Serbia. During the transition period, large funds were given for the construction of the catastrophe. However, there was a fatal error, where land books did not match to the Kastrad, and we have hundreds of thousands of cases pending. So we have a situation where the practical state of the field doesn't match the catastrian state. The metadata, which is the basic data on which this law is based, and which describes one spatial infrastructure unit and directly binds to the cadastrian unit, which many colleagues have been surprised, but Katastar is very important there, is not true. Invalid data is not a data item. It's an unusable data or worse, it becomes unusable data that citizens pay. The synchronization of the data is also very important. I see a big problem here. The funds provided for here will not be enough because all entities in the process of realising this law will also have to be reorganised. Good education will have to be done both professional and wider public in order for citizens to really have quality information that is true and that is applicable. The main subjects here, the Republic Geodetic Institute, who is a difolt competent organization and who cares about the implementation of this law. What's wrong with Katastra and all that is is that what's going on in the field isn't being updated. My inside information, to explain, is personal inside information from my projects. So that's not an unknown to me. What's good, it's to introduce a law like this when all of these preconditions, first of all Katastar and restitution, return to people kidnapped, when a general substitution is done with another substitute, these are the preconditions for this law to be good. So, this law will be a thorn in the leg of the promoter, or government, thorn in a not-so-healthy leg, but functional for power when all this is arranged and the law is properly brought to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30868	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30869	Thank you. I don't think there's any reason to defend ourselves with silence. I'm glad I can represent this law. It's also important for the public. I'm sure you're more of an expert subjective than I am. I'm still a politician, but in any case, it's important that we make a difference between the intensity of the law itself. So this is about standardisation, harmonisation, something that's practically intensities, which is probably welcome to introduce order into the system. It doesn't matter that much, it does, but it doesn't have that much to do with the cathedral. Catastre is just one of the layers or levels covered by this law. What's most important here is that this is the infrastructure law for all geospace data, not just for the cadastre. It is also important that the European Commission and the 'inspire' directive you have pointed to is very important, but that the European Commission has positively assessed this very text in front of the MPs today. That, of course, speaks, I probably hope, about compliance with the "inspire" directive. There are deadlines and there's also a way to put all of this into order and sublegal acts, so that what you said, and that's certainly true, is that there are discrepancies between the actual state and what it says, so that these things are put into order. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia's intensities are correct, that in all areas of social being we should put in order, and I guess that's something that's positive. If, I repeat, like yesterday, we want to become in the Middle Ages or in the Stone Ages, then we'll make a big mistake, in my opinion. So we're not gonna hit the target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30870	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30871	I thank Minister Ruzic for his reply. What's not controversial here, and I don't think you understand. It's a good thing a law like this is introduced. He'll bring order but not now. It will introduce order in seven, eight, ten, fifteen years, because cross-border co-operation will force you to have this law so that these data is accurate, to be updated in time, and that we have no situation, like, we have in Kopalnik, where in the middle of the national park we have an object of thousands of squares, where a preparation was done, a change in the purpose of the plot, so that the object would not be in the process. So it's something that's inadmissible and that can't possibly be allowed. One day, I said, this law, which will be voted by the ruling majority, when the preconditions are settled, and the preconditions are – cadastre, restitution, substitution and everything else that goes before that, it will be very good for the citizens of Serbia. But until that day, it is futuristism, because I repeat that in 2020, it is the year in which it should be in full shape, only in the EU to revive this law. So, where are we, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30872	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. Minister Branko Ruzic has his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30873	I really appreciate it. So, I have no intention of plowing. We are, I think, on the same background, but what is the government's obligation, is that it has one broad picture that does not deal exclusively with individual professional issues that are not at all controversial. So, the improvement of the catastra and the situation itself is under way, and all the directives, we are required as a state to fulfill it by 2021, if I'm not mistaken. We're doing it today, and I don't think some things should be left until the last term. We don't work too fast. I think we're doing this very quickly and in the right way and certainly if you're doing something, then it's possible that you can fix this situation, whether it's new legal proposals or sublegal acts. If you're not doing anything or waiting for some deadlines, which are prescribed, then we'll sit down in five, six or seven years and talk again about all these problems you've listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30874	Thank you, Minister Rose. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30875	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable fellow citizens, you will allow me to participate in today's discussion very briefly to share a few well-intentioned advices with opposition colleagues who are becoming more and more persistent in the assembly sessions and are losing more and more convincingly in the elections. My warmest advice is not to deal with gossip and deception, but with politics, with their call, and if they don't have the right way to do it, it's to follow our example. In 2012, the SNS assumed responsibility to build Serbia's future. In 2016 we won the local, parliamentary and rural elections. In 2017, the absolute support of Serbian citizens when Aleksandar Vucic became president of the Republic. And in 2018, on 4 March, the SNS won a landslide victory in the Serbian mayoral elections, and just a few days ago in Smederjevska Palanca, and this exclusively represents its measurable results of work, but also plans for the future, as well as concern for citizens. So, gentlemen, don't just deal with your pockets, take care of your citizens. I'm going back to today's discussion, since there's a set of laws in front of us that's attracted my attention and it's really safe. What you'd talk about more is the e-Government Act. It is really important, because it helps electronic communication between citizens, as well as legal persons, as well as domestic and national administrations of other countries. A good example of the use of electronic administration is the city of Zrenjanin. The heads of the city of Zrenjanin have seen the benefits and good results of this business. Simply, we were among the first to swear to his application. On the website of our city portal you can see the electronic counter, when using home copies that can be delivered to home address, then urbanism, ads, competitions, public procurement, municipal police, and also the Office for Quick Answers. I must mention and commend that a step forward has also been taken by the Assembly of the City of Zrenjanin because colleagues in the city's parliament are taking the sitting by electronic means. So, the councils don't get the material on paper, they get the pills. This is how they monitor the material, but also vote, which has greatly accelerated the efficiency of the Assembly's work and brought financial savings. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic recently visited the town of Zrenjanin when the second phase of the project "Bebo Welcome to the World" was launched as part of the "Stop Bureau" campaign, and I look forward to it, given that parents who receive babies don't spend their days on counters, but immediately end up in maternity homes, health insurance, as well as children's accessories. With this I would like to conclude my presentation today, thank you for your support, make it possible for our local self-government to work more efficiently, and of course I will support your bill proposals, as I call on my colleagues to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30876	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30877	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, I'd like to speak to you today in these few minutes about the Bookbooks Act. Unfortunately, when the debate comes in particular, more than 600 amendments will pass and we probably won't be able to speak in the right way about the solutions and the amendments that we have submitted to this law. I would like to go through several concrete examples and members of the bill to get answers from the minister and see if these proposals are as proposed here, in line with the objectives for which this law is adopted. These objectives, to remind me once again, are greater transparency in the approval and reduction of the risk of corruption, ensuring the availability of textbooks for all categories and protecting the family budget. The same objectives existed in 2015 when the law was passed, which this same majority adopted in the Assembly, along with the praises of the bill, the work of the Ministry and everything else. I don't see a single word of criticism as to why this good law didn't achieve these goals. And today, after not three years of age, we're making a whole new law. A new law in which some things that need to provide a set of goals are completely different defined. I do not share this optimism and belief that the proposed law will now achieve those objectives in this way. Let's start with the last goal - protecting the family budget. The minister said here several times, and today he said that the textbooks would be 15% cheaper because they could be obtained through school cooperatives. And I was trying to see how he got that bill, reading the reason for the law. There's not a single word about it anywhere. And on the APR site, who has time can now check, there are two school cooperatives in Serbia, currently. So how many schools there are in Serbia, close to a thousand, only two have formed a school cooperative, and that says that one is in liquidation, from Lazarec. So how does the minister here promise us that the textbooks will be 15% cheaper? I'd like to hear it specifically. On the other hand, the applicable law in Article 35 speaks of the maximum retail price of the textbook. And the minister, or people who wrote the reasoning of the law, made a good effort, on the whole of one side, to explain why this institute did not come to life and how bad it was. And as he was defined and proposed three years ago, he was just supposed to be in order to protect the family budget, because he was supposed to define the maximum retail price. Now it's gone. Now we're going to market, as you say. And what guarantee is it that textbooks, when this thing is abolished, which, unfortunately, did not come to life, obviously, that textbooks would be cheaper than more expensive? What logic is that? Next thing. The minister says, here's how many new powers are given to the minister. Prior to the standards of quality of textbooks, at the proposal of the Institute, he adopted the National Educational Council. Now it's all transferred to the minister, so the Institute makes a proposal for these quality standards, the National Educational Council just gives an opinion, and eventually the minister decides. So, new centralization, new mechanism, new weapon, new thing and jurisdiction in the hands of the minister. The conflict of interest and the reduction of corruption as one of the objectives outlined. How does this law regulate the issue of conflict of interest? It only mentions in article 21 giving a statement, a statement you say – I have nothing to do with publishers, with authors, with everyone, and that's enough. It's not even worked out. A step has been taken back in the fight against corruption in the way the commissions will now work that will approve textbooks. The minister says in an explanation -- the four commissions, they had four to eight members, and it didn't work. How many now, Minister, will have members? There's no provision anymore. The law has spoken to a minimum of four members, this valid one, to this day, or until we adopt a new one. And now it is left to you, only to you, on the authority to prescribe the number of members of the commission, working conditions, and the law defines that these members of the commission are now coming exclusively from staff at the Bureau, who will not be paid for this job. And is that a good mechanism to fight corruption? There used to be a list of appraisers, so then the commission was formed by taking someone off the list, guaranteeing some secrecy, not knowing which commission and in what composition these textbooks would evaluate, and that was one of the mechanisms, as we are presented here, to reduce corruption. Now those names will be known. Will these people just make one statement and we'll make sure they're not exposed, if nothing else, even by attempts at corruption. This law also introduces a good thing – the return of textbooks. But that idea obviously the minister had no idea how to work it out. The term is being introduced and then it is said – more and more will be prescribed by the minister. Will Minister, I ask you now, do you at least have an idea in your head to include students, parents in the process of following textbooks? Is it enough and will we properly educate our children if parents just bring the children in front of the school, then turn around and don't know what and how these children are doing at school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30878	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30879	Let me start with this last one: the return of the textbook. Of course it was. As an institute it exists in developed countries, where there are much more expensive textbooks and it is one educational function. But if you followed the good exposure, I mentioned earlier that our school libraries had run out of stock, that it was down to the distribution of books at the library level and that the technological surpluses in the library could have gone to anyone. And we, through that savings, the electronic censorship that I mentioned earlier, have about 89 library norms somewhere to get back into office and figure out who can do it. Of course it's a person as an expert associate most invited to participate in this chain, but tied to cooperatives a little earlier. The information that two, yes, are new, but they are not registered until the end, because during these few days, norms and rules have been published that have passed all procedures, you know that both ministries and finance and legislation must pass, etc. Actually, there are 80 cooperatives that have preserved, working under some old rules, and I've had meetings with them, it's a model so-called. The old Serbian cooperative, and I used to participate in it myself. The design of cooperatives couldn't have been before, because for the sublegal act to be passed on April 7th, very quickly, it means, under the new system law. That's where our application so they don't rush to buy textbooks, so they won't be more expensive, that they can get through this level. Rabat is the basis of the price, as we have come to a minimum of 15%. So that's what I was allowed to say, because he's 30%. If distribution costs a ride to school, which used to be, some and 5%, let some rebate of those people who will do the same amount of money at school, it remains that for some school needs some dinar, as we said, for cooperatives and at least half of that rebate remains on this story that we were talking about. The mechanisms and not just statements and everything else are given through working norms. The employees in the offices have a description of their work to do this. The Commission has so far been able to hold two years of training and be an expert in teaching. So now we have really serious people who are in a working relationship and of course they won't get any extra money for it, that was intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30880	Thank you, Minister. The word has Michaelo Jokic, member 107, dignity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30881	I can't understand the previous speaker saying that there are only two schools in Serbia that have student cooperatives. I mean, there must be a responsibility for the testimony given by my previous speaker. Please, you should know that only in Valjev a few high and several elementary schools have their own student cooperative. Enter the Technical School site in Valjevo, enter the Agricultural School site in Valjevo, and you will see how student cooperatives function. You say there are only two student cooperatives in all of Serbia and you stay alive and you don't answer to anyone. I don't know what kind of man you are or what you serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30882	Comrade Yokic, don't speak directly, please. Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. There is freedom of speech in parliament and any MP can say what he wants. Of course, the minister answered. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30883	Indeed, whenever you chair, you somehow challenge that a man must react because you do not respect the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm speaking by article 27. You can't let someone advertise the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you won't let anyone. Being a member of your coalition group, that's your business. I told you the other day, you're exaggerating your coalition partner, and I told you: "Do not be afraid, no one has driven you out of power for 20 years, neither will you in the future. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30884	My colleague Radeta, we are no subject of this, but focus on the violation of the Rules of Procedure and what I did when it comes to my relationship with the discussion of Professor Mihajl Jokic. That's what I'd like to ask you. Go ahead, go ahead. Sign up again, I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30885	Unlike you, I'm very focused on every word spoken in this room. You couldn't have given it to that doctor, Dr. Professor, as now the crusader could not have given it just before the Rules of Procedure, unless he wanted to indicate that you had injured the Rules of Procedure while Minister Sarcevic spoke. The fact that he didn't react so quickly that he reacted to what fellow Marco was saying, that's his problem. You know, you got to think a little fast here, you can't sit down like that, so all of a sudden remember, uh, Marco's talking, now I'm going to advertise the Rules of Procedure. It can't be like that. So, you had to, you could have given it to him as soon as you saw that he wasn't talking about the injury involved during the Minister's hearing, you could have said - I'm sorry, you are my coalition partner, but you can't talk when the Rules of Procedure doesn't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30886	Okay. Thank you. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I'm only interpreting it one way, and I'm sticking to it in a parliamentary way, as this discussion has been going since this morning. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Come in, come in. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30887	I would, of course, like the Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30888	Thank you, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30889	Please. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30890	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30891	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this all in transmission and you can see that members of the former education and education reform regime in Serbia feel like a circus. That's how they and the state ran it, worse than the circus. Well, the state came to the brink of ambition and bankruptcy. And when they talk about a conflict of interest, they show us the key thing when all the debates of the law, which we have previously been dealing with, here I am a two-year MP, two-year-olds, not one proposal, not one single bill has been read. This is a classic example when we talk about conflict of interest. This is defined by Article 45. The bill, where it says - a fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars will be fined by a person who gives an expert assessment, an expert opinion, or an expert opinion if he does not give an expert assessment in accordance with Article 23 of this Law, does not give an expert opinion in accordance with Article 25 of this Law, does not give an expert opinion in accordance with Article 26 of this Law and refuses to sign a false declaration of conflict of interest. So this shows how members of the former regime are having every debate about any bill and actually, the bill's proposals aren't really a topic, and you're telling us the subject all day, so the subject. They need you to tell them what the subject is. Because if you don't read the bill of law that you have at all the strength, the cheek, if we can even talk about the face at all, get up here to talk to Serbian citizens about any bill, and you haven't read anything about it. Of course, free textbooks – that's a wonderful idea. That's fantastic. If you had free transportation, free electricity, free phone, all for free to be, it's probably, let's say, every man in the world's dream of never paying anything. But simply, it doesn't exist, it's one dream, the other is reality. We in Serbia are trying to lead real policy, life policy, and in life everything costs something. The textbooks, the printing of them, the work of them, that someone must pay. When some textbooks were distributed during the former regime, we saw how far that led us later, so everything they allegedly tried to pay for free with green interest later. Don't ever let them come back to offer us anything for free again. It costs us 100 times more than it would really cost us. When we talk about corruption, well, it's a disaster that members of the former regime tell us about corruption. In Serbia, no one wanted to invest a single dollar during the former regime. They fled from Serbia, the citizens fled, the children who enrolled in school couldn't wait to finish just leaving, because they knew that without bribes and corruption they couldn't get a job. We are trying today and we are doing this, largely, to offer system reforms in education to children of modern knowledge, knowledge that will serve them in the 21st century, which will be useful to them, and therefore the fight against corruption, investors are coming to Serbia today and opening factories thanks to the policies of President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So today a higher percentage of children decide to stay in their country and give themselves and Serbia a chance to continue living here and to create their families here. Isn't that good? Of course, it's not good for members of the former regime. When you get used to living off corruption, from bribery, from hard work, from getting up at noon, so you come to the Assembly at 12 o'clock and criticizing people who have been working here since the early morning, of course you're okay. I understand that perfectly. You can talk about protecting the family budget when in four years you open over 70 factories like SNS led by Alexander Vukic, then you talk about protecting the family budget. You have no right to talk about protecting your family budget if you've left 400,000 people, 400,000 parents out on the street without a job, if you've ruined hundreds of factories and reversed. If you have dispersed from Serbia to tens of thousands of young educational people, and then you are talking about the education of young people, about their future, about where they will work, because you sure as hell care about it. How to talk about Serbia's future, education, anything, the one who owed his municipality for billions. Here, the election's over there, the man's gone, he's gone, he's gone. He came to recite what he had in mind, the same thing in every session...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30892	Please return to the legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30893	Please don't interrupt me, if they could spit us all morning, then they have to endure what we have to say. Serbian citizens deserve to hear the truth, to hear that they haven't found them in 12 years to fix one, and their policy ended up where it should end up right in that squatter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30894	The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30895	I thank Vice President Milicevic. Unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia who are watching us today, the parents, teachers and teachers who have heard the previous discussion, I think they only get the wrong message, the only message they shouldn't get from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and what manner of discussion is here and on which topics, we consider it a priority and how we talk here. Also, I have to say that the fact that about such important laws, especially the laws in the field of education, because I don't think that there is any today in Serbia in 2018, is very few topics that are more important than the subject of education, than the future, that it is very bad to talk in this way in a united debate, with laws that have no touch points with each other, with re-abuse of SNS, submitting amendments, trying not to prevent MPs from speaking, and proposing better solutions, for all of us common interest than to discourage this debate, as well as any previous one, is an unacceptable message to both parents and teachers and teachers and teachers and teachers and children. If those in the National Assembly get a message that MPs are more important to accuse each other, in ways that do not deserve any comment, you are yourself enough commentary, that is something for which the majority is responsible and for which there is no justification. When we talk about the quality of textbooks, when we talk about what content is, what is in the textbooks and what should I educate future generations, I don't think there's a more important topic than what we're preparing generations for the future that this should be a topic that we've been discussing here all day, running for the best ideas without any space for such cheap and inappropriate for any discussion, especially for the National Assembly, discussion. When we talk about any law, especially amendments and additions, it is very responsible for you ministers to start talking in a way that unfortunately I haven't had a chance to hear from you, which is the current situation. I'm going to connect the current situation into two themes, and that's what reality is and what responsibility is. The reality is yes, responsibility and that's what we haven't heard from you to talk about the Bookbooks Act again after a few years. So, in 2015, the Assembly adopted the Law on textbooks, then certain goals were formally adopted here that it would be a law that would finally solve all the problems that exist in that area and that it would be a law that would achieve all the objectives that were set. I will only mention some of them, that will ensure transparency in the approval of textbooks, that corruption will be reduced, that textbooks will be available for all categories, that the family budget will be protected. We haven't heard a single word about it, which is why none of these goals have been achieved, whose responsibility is that. The responsibility of this majority, which is now the same law after three years, and it can't be yours alone, because neither are you here to speak for yourself, and it can't be your alibi. So we have no responsibility to change matter again without any results left behind by the previous law. On the other hand, we're talking about reality. I'm going to have a digression that paints this reality to tell you what the current situation is. For the first and fifth grade of primary school in August 2017, the ministry, Mr. Minister, adopted new curricula and programmes, and opened a serious issue of textbooks for students of these classes. The ministry then violates the existing Law on textbooks and advises schools not to buy textbooks for those classes, but to wait for new textbooks. The text of this proposal for a law that we should talk about today shows that these new textbooks will be included in the textbook catalogue by the end of April 2018, although there is no information on how these textbooks are prepared, when these competitions will be called, because even if the textbooks are in the catalogue by 30 April 2018, the school will remain for 15 days to make the choice of textbooks, including that all textbooks will be available to all schools, that schools should be introduced to these textbooks, that they should propose textbooks with professional activity and that the teaching councils make a decision within 15 days. So, free textbooks, that's something my colleagues in the DS and SDS talked about, is something that should be as responsible people to bind us to, not just what the Constitution warns us about. If primary education is mandatory and free of charge. Free student textbooks should be understood. Unfortunately, this government and it's a relationship to political ideology, and it says there's no money for children, there's no money for parents, and there's money for the most expensive trees in the world, there's money for corruption, there's money for non-transparent subsidies, there's money for gondolas, and there's no money for this kind of thing. You know, Minister, since time reminds me that I only have one minute left, only two sentences left. No quality textbooks, and we can see certain efforts to work in this direction, falling into the water as long as there is a ban on employment. While there is a ban on employment, what is the message to young people? So, young people who go to school, who want to finish colleges fairly and work in those areas that are naturally directed to the state. If you want, young people who don't want to get out of this country even though this government rules them every day and every act of terror, who want to be a teacher, a teacher, a teacher. What does this government say? For such a person, such a young teacher, a teacher, there is no room. For party activists, there's no room for her. That, on the one hand, leads to an example. In Math High, and I know you're very familiar, we can't hire people who are the best professors in that area, can we, these little geniuses that we're all justifiably or unjustly proud of, can't teach the best? So, the employment ban is an area that should also interest you, and unfortunately we haven't heard a word about it. I hope that we will have the opportunity to speak more in detail in the debate. We have submitted a large number of amendments, DS, which speak very explicitly about why it takes every space for corruption and abuse of tears and to enable what we need most, which is to educate generations for the future, with the level of education that is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30896	Comrade Orlic, you want a replica, mentioning the SNS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30897	When we mention amendments made by the SNS, another fantastic news and amazing news for those involved in this issue and for this session. The MPs of the SNS have submitted only one-third or one-quarter of the total number of amendments submitted, and if that means anything to anyone, then let them know that it is in this, as it is said, to disenfranchise. So, I deserve to be involved in it three or four times more than all our MPs combined. When we talk about devising, I say we don't do it, because it's impossible. Whether I'm saying it because it's a prerequisite for devising that there's some point on the other side or not, let's think about it for ourselves. But reality and responsibility. Very big and sound words, ladies and gentlemen, and on the subject, imagine those free textbooks and as the Constitution of Serbia has been said. When was this Constitution adopted? Was it by any chance a few years before they lost the opportunity for citizens to take care of the Constitution in this way, to show respect for it, just on the case of free textbooks? They were only a few years old, as they say now, to fulfill that constitutional obligation or perhaps then they understood what they were now pretending not to understand, that it had nothing to do with what they're saying today. Is there any money for subsidies today? Well, there is, and there is because the state has managed to get on its feet, to correct that serious damage, to correct it further, but it has corrected to a significant extent so far, which they have done. Does he have money to stimulate employment? Yes, but let's not talk about today being something or not better, comparing the salary somewhere where it was zero. How many times is higher, 30,000 every month, 50,000 every month, 70,000 every month, how much do you want, compared to zero? Who can calculate that? What's the message to young people, they ask? It is not certain whether the ban on public sector employment is in force. In the public sector, so where we have an obligation to make savings. In the private sector that we point to, and I end up with, Mr. Chairman, look at the official data on how many more people are employed and how much wages have gone up, so just draw a conclusion if you're able to figure out whether one tree is the most expensive or not in the world, you haven't been able to do so so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30898	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30899	I'm obliged to give some answers for the previous discussion. I would mention that the previous law in 2015 has achieved one of the objectives, which is transparency. Why should we honor that? I'm asking all of you here and myself, if we've been on any other planet than a country like South Korea, they've had digital textbooks for 18 years. It's not my predecessor's question, it's my predecessor's. Why couldn't we have thought of that? I'm telling you that I grew up in Belgrade and in 1985, the Lola factory made computers and a number of other things. So it doesn't start history from now on, and I'm saying that some things have to be remembered backwards, and what could have happened? So, what if it were, I really don't have time to deal with it. Maybe I'll insult Mark again, which means I have to be effective at this point. What you may not have well commented on, is that the reform did not cover in 2017 from first to fifth grade. A partial programme for the fifth grade has been modified to create a space for reform starting on 1 September 2018. It's some kind of dyspression, so that information can be introduced, so it doesn't wait until this year as a mandatory subject. That's absolutely true, don't nod your head, I guess everyone in Serbia knows that. Accessibility, no availability was resolved, due to complex complications and methodologies as it was done and I said so. So it wasn't a practice that showed availability. So we had chapters 25 and 26 that we barely managed to open and close, precisely because of the lack of textbooks for minorities, for people with special needs. So we did this more thoroughly. All the societies, the blind, the deaf, we all gathered together and saw the money missing. How long does it take for the blind? One textbook is ten times more expensive than an ordinary textbook. You need to know that a number of other things. So we really saw thoroughly what it was necessary to do. Now let's pretend that what's good or anything is good, because someone's going to say it's out of line in two years, most likely, and that's how it's supposed to be seen. Education is a constant need to follow the world and the question is are we doing it at this rate? I think we're working. What's very important is that you know and take the mantra off the free textbook story, one year, I don't know which, someone will tell me, is given 800 million, then money, dinar, just for Belgrade, just for three classes. We gave 670 million last year for all of Serbia, so it really wouldn't compare that data and that's what we're not going back to. I've remained obliged to say about the standard of maximum price. She's unacceptable. Absolutely inapplicable market, all the lawyers say, and as such must be abolished. In order for you to form the price maximum, you have to influence the price of paper, paper quality, page number, photo quality, glue, breaking down textbooks. So that's something he couldn't even apply to. That's where the rulebook wasn't made. These are some technical reasons and there is no shame in saying – come on, we can do better. Why is this falling into my eyes? There's been a lot of marks and tiny changes that don't have a fundamentally great essence. If only it could have been four, five fundamental things in the old law to change and supplement, it would have had a characteristic of changes and additions. However, there is a legal logic that this number of members must be corrected for coming to the point that it is more than 50%. Basically, when you pass the changes we've brought, it's more like alterations and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30900	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30901	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we from the SRS support the draft laws on today's agenda and on which we discuss and vote for them. As for the draft law on textbooks, I would like to say that there have been more attempts in previous years, especially in 2000, and here, to solve the problem of school textbooks properly. However, the legal solutions at the time showed certain conceptual shortcomings that could not be removed in walking, but as such, they either waited for the amendments to the law or were simply ignored. I am therefore convinced that this bill is very important because it affects the essence of our future, i.e. it underlines the fact that the elementary education of our children must be one of the most important tasks that we need to solve properly, and the problems that it has to solve, there are, starting with textbooks that it already has in use and which contain numerous shortcomings in terms of ageing matter, as well as many other reasons. The fact is that most students in Serbia attend professional schools as far as possible means that there are about a thousand professional subjects of different profiles for which a good and quality textbook must be provided in order to avoid the situation for students to attend school without adequate elementary resources and teaching aids, using a variety of available literature situationally and purposely in order to make appropriate material available to themselves by reaching alternative solutions, which is unacceptable. To this end, it should be mentioned that a large number of students rely only on the scope of the necessary information, collected as part of the lectures themselves as a product of notes and dictatorships by competent professors and other lecturers. On the other hand, special categories of students also require specific textbooks and other auxiliaries aimed at providing children with special needs with opportunities for regular education and, of course, for further education. Also, there was a lack of sufficient number of individual textbooks for groups of students who are educated in the languages of national minorities, so it is necessary to ensure the existence of appropriate literature within our education system and for that purpose. It's parallel to solving the problem of the so-called. classic textbooks, we also need to follow trends in modern education, allowing both the existence and use of digital textbooks, which will make it much easier for students to master teaching programs and plans, so that the only digital aids, as so far, are not orally convinced speakers which, by the circumstances, can be found on the Internet and which are massively used by children, so as not to read books. What is extremely important in this bill is that the choice of textbooks is done for a period of four school years. That is what a member of the 34th draft law is talking about, thus achieving the protection of the family budget. The parents' budget is also protected by allowing the law to increase offers and productive competition among publishers, which will directly affect the price reduction of textbooks. Also, the parents' budget will be protected because the law stipulates that students can be recommended to use a certain additional teaching tool, but without conditioning parents to buy them. Furthermore, this bill will make corruption impossible. That is what the minister also spoke of, as Article 27 of this Bill defines that a person who gives an expert opinion on the text of the textbooks of a teaching agent and the like, prior to his beginning of work sign a statement that he is not the author of the said textbook, that he is not employed in the publishing house, in the publisher's office or in any other way associated with the publisher. Furthermore, this proposal for a law in Article 10 provides for equal access to education and education, especially for students who are socially and materially at risk, as well as for students with developmental and disability disorders, by financing or subsidising the preparation, procurement and award of textbooks and practices necessary for the work and monitoring of teaching. It is clear from the above that this law should solve a number of problems and solve them. The State and the Ministry of Education are aware of the importance of regulating this area of social life and by proposing such a law shows a willingness to take a decisive step towards the rapid development of society, stressing in the first instance the importance of human resources, i.e. quality human resources, capable of leading the reform processes that our society really needs. Finally, I am sure that citizens from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS as the headquarters of this government expect such solutions, recognising them as a driving force, which after many years and a dozen missed opportunities for the prosperity and development of the nation at all levels by some previous ruling furniture leads this country in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30902	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30903	For clarification. Just now, I was obliged to make another comment or information. I mentioned yesterday, if you remember, the school is such an institution that it has a "dead line" on September 1st. If you don't have a good run for your procedures, you're going in the language of athletics. For many years there have been crimes and we are very late and we have no master plans and therefore we work very quickly now, not quickly. So, knowing that we're going to get into reform processes, we've made decisions about curricula and change programmes for first and fifth grade, and they're long gone. So, we've called the competition according to the applicable law perfectly allowed and all procedures are under way. If no publisher would mind, I don't see why that would be a distraction. Then all the reform processes would stop us, as well as teaching teachers, etc. Here to compose the cube that you have all the elements, the language of the building, and the cement and the mixer and the geometer and all the possible tools, shovels, so it's very complicated. We didn't leave anything out. Everything is under legal procedures and everything is very synchronised. That's why everything will arrive, thank God, for September 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30904	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the People of the Assembly will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30905	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the assembly majority, who voted on the draft laws, which are on the agenda today, is being led by a united debate, does not realize the importance of these draft laws. It is a shame that we, the MPs of the people, especially the MPs of the SRS, who want to be justified to discuss these bill proposals, are deprived of the time, which we are denied to conduct a separate debate on each bill. When the proposal for a law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia is at issue, which is carried out by emergency procedure due to obligations towards the EU, I cannot help but look first at the name of the bill, which is completely unclear, because it does not clearly refer to the area to which it relates. I would also point out that foreign words and expressions dominate this proposal, although in our language there are words and expressions that clearly and unequivocally define certain concepts. This is about the termology itself, and the basic objection to this bill concerns the establishment of a qualification agency, which performs quality assurance and professional support tasks, is established by the government and financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The agency with elected authorities is planned to take over employees from the ministry and the Education and Training Institute, as well as to employ a sufficient number of executives to carry out the work, which will require additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is necessary to allocate 90,334,500,00 dinars for the Agency's work in 2019. These are huge funds and it is another blow to the Serbian citizens' budget. The Serbian Radical Party is against the formation and financing of various state agencies. We believe that all the agencies that are around 200 are being abolished, because they are only doing the jobs of the ministries, and in fact they are spending only huge amounts of money on Serbian citizens. The second bill I'd like to say a few words about is the Bookbooks Act. As far as the bill is concerned, the SRS advocates a system of uniform textbooks, which the Dosmanian regime abolished after the five-octobaric coup. So we have to have unique textbooks for both primary and high school. Also, we believe that publishing textbooks must again be centralized, because this leaves a large space for corruption and crime, precisely because of the presence of a large number of publishers. What's going on is that lobbying and school management as well as teachers themselves, that they're assigned to a particular publisher's textbook, because they get a certain percentage from the publisher himself. So there's a bribery, a growing corruption, and teachers are taking personal interests, not students' interests. They don't care about the content of textbooks or the quality of lessons, they don't mind too large, drawn lessons, which are mostly inappropriate to age. They only care about the percentages they get from publishers. Then, in one school, several departments of the same class use textbooks of different publishers. It has a negative effect, because students feel they don't belong to the same school, the same age, and a fundamentally bad climate is created. Also, in a family where there are more children of school age, younger children cannot inherit books from the elderly, precisely because of the choice of publishers by teachers, which is another blow to the already maimed family budget. Then, if a student changes school, even if he stays in the same municipality, he often cannot follow the class in a new class, since in that new class he works on textbooks from another publisher. I would also mention that many schools have a plan and a program that is obsolete. Such an example is a railway school in Belgrade, and they have not been given permission for years to amend their plan and programme. They're doing completely out of date and inapplicable things, and I'd like to give an example of what's really going on at this school. Among other things, this is where the subject of passenger transport is studied. General conditions of rail passenger transport change on an annual basis, and plans don't change for years, not to mention decades. This leads to the situation that the teachers in question are in a dilemma whether to stick to the prescribed plan and programme and to teach teaching units about things that have not been used on the railway for more than 10 years, or to break the law and submit valid regulations by enrolling one in the diary and teaching the other. A few years ago, an active traffic group of cases did and adopted the necessary changes in plans for individual teaching subjects. These curricula and programs were sent to the Ministry of Education, but to this day there is no answer. Meanwhile, these programmes have become obsolete, and they too need to be changed. The key question that arises is whether the Ministry of Education should be a service that is in the service of all schools and works to solve the key, practical problems that exist in each school, or whether the Ministry of Education is an institution that forces employees in education to abide by even those rules and norms that threaten the right to quality education? When it comes to educational inspections, educational inspections deal exclusively with form, completely neglecting the essence. In each inspection, 90% of the objections refer to form. Whether the subject is teaching, whether she has the preparation for a class, whether she is adequate, whether she runs the teaching booklets. Unfortunately, it all comes down to paperwork and the fulfillment of some formalities that may be important, but certainly not the most important. It is a rare case that someone dealt with what they teach and how they teach, the relationship between teachers and students, with which real problems both teachers and students face. Also, regular educational inspections come once a year and externals that come once every four years, each school is announced a week in advance. As they are most interested in the already mentioned form and paperwork, this period is used in schools to prepare and print out all the necessary things and yet no one deals with key and important things related to education and education. Is that how you get the right picture of the state of education?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30906	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30907	I think we've come out of the topic and we've comprehensively worked out the curricula and high school programs, and what, of course, is not a topic. I'm going to say again, however important the topic of the textbook, that the textbook is a secondary teaching tool, that the master teacher and the curriculum and the program that he's accomplishing. It's an absolute axia that doesn't need to be proved. I'll go back to the Agency story. I don't know who likes the word "age" or not, that's the standard, that's the SBS that gets extra funding for this, so the state won't harm part of the money and the capital and the equipment and people crossing, you said, from these two bodies and make it new. If you think it's smarter to have the condition that we've had, we're going to have a big problem and now we're going to have it about recognising the diploma of all those things that are very important to this opportunity, which is why it hasn't even been arranged for 10 or 12 years. Let's go another 10-12, so let's keep it this way, but I think this is finally our international obligation, some of the employees who are going to come here to work or some of us are going to go back to Serbia, etc., or one of our minorities has finished school in the neighborhood or one of our own has ended up somewhere. So there's a lot of reasons and they're very practical. So I don't know what to comment on. Lobbing, it's always been a being. However, that is not the way to prevent it. It's being prevented by having an assessment of the quality of the teacher's work. The Assembly adopted this same thing, when the budget was, and the Payments Law, that I call it academically, and we are obliged to make standards worth it. I guarantee you that evaluation is also related to the outcomes achieved. The new system education law speaks of outcomes. Instead of making a witch hunt, we wait for the outcome. Is it worth it to someone that they're doing a bad job, let them think about it. First he'll be underpaid, then the technological surplus, then the license question, there are all the mechanisms in the law. We've done it all before. So I wouldn't do it and I don't think that with those mechanisms that were in the old and new law, we're going to do what we can. The inspection only has to follow the law. In this law you can see that we have given one new solution. What you're talking about is the work of educational counselors. It's changing that model. They remember old colleagues that it was both surveillance and supervisors and advisors, while he was a PP institute. So now we're bringing this back as a common good just so it doesn't... So, the fact of the inspection ends, and what about this? The report will be very well analyzed. In the external evaluation of the school and how to consider it. So, there won't be any Alibe's straw, whether we've been well or not. It's not meant for anyone not to be notified of all this. Let him prepare himself as an exam student, but there must be papers and conditions and all that. We've expanded the list with these outsiders, made it a more visible opportunity to know if the school is doing good or bad. I will agree with you only about a portion of a certain number of secondary and professional schools. Some have not passed the reform. Thank you and donors from Germany, above all to the GIZ Institute and others, who invested huge money in Serbian secondary school education and before I arrived. On the other hand, through dual education, we started part of this reform of secondary vocational education. We made a short-term reform of high school. We're left with that part of the job to do and teams are made, formed. The Institute for Promotion, Education and Education is also at work and has enormous tasks at the moment to do everything about reform. There are some priorities. Of course it's the turn. I talked to management, say, those very schools and asked what they were schooling for, for fast tracks or for pilots. You go to Korea and there are all autopilots. So I don't know if we need any more of those calls. It remains that there, at that school, we solved the status of the building and we started doing things right and they weren't the only ones. There are teams, a high school assistant formed them together with me, with people from the office, that's what this is about. There's only one part of education left, adult education that we haven't been able to arrange the way we wanted it to be, but it's our turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30908	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30909	I don't have a different opportunity to react at this session, but since, as my colleague Radet said, we follow every word and every spoken word of the minister, I have to call on Article 107. - Parliament dignity and Article 27, as the minister spoke of the necessary funds, responding to a truly comprehensive speech by counterpart Ruzica Nikolic, on the establishment of an agency that stems from the National Qualifications Framework Act. Mr. Minister, in your opening statement, I followed you closely yesterday, and now after my colleague Nikolic's speech, you said that no funds were needed at all, so that now a student, a parent, would understand you, means a single dinar. Someone doesn't have to be in writing if you say they don't need any funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is simply not true, because in your argument on page 5, the assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law says exactly what amount is needed to be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2019 and 2020. I suppose that's what both co-workers and Minister Ruzic follow, although it's not their portfolio, but it's simply a projection of the budget. It says nicely: in 2019 90,334,500 dinars, and in 2020 108,118,500. The agency, 239th in a row, will have its own board of directors, employees of the agency, the hire of residents, space, equipment, current costs, total, one year, another year, about 200,000 dinars. That's the truth, and that's why I had to answer and react.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30910	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30911	We're not in college, neither are you nor I. The people who do this cost the state and their work, the salaries that are already in the budget, in other positions, work tools, computers, chairs, space already exists, just move there and recalculate. The money that will later be bigger at this time from the SBS and not from that home budget. I have to tell you how the Ennik Naric Center works. It's the consensitors' pay. So we have special funds here. We're not doing well, we couldn't pay them enough. Now, the sectoral council and everything the economy needs, they'll get involved in the story. And as you've seen there, the composition of the working bodies makes five, six ministries. Maybe he's just confusing the formulation, but we're thinking the same thing. It wouldn't have gone through the Treasury, they're very hard, believe me, if we had just invented something that wasn't there. Is this an emergency? The obligation of some international absolute is. I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30912	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30913	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk about this set of educational laws. At the very beginning, I would like to express one recognition, since I have also been professional in how national communities in the countries of the region have been treated in the legal frameworks. What I can say with responsibility is that no country in the region is represented in this way and an important question of language and letters and education of national communities. It is something that is a fact and it is something that should be honored for all of us in this home, as well as the state of Serbia. Problems sometimes arise in implementing the legal framework, and that is what the respected minister said was the legacy of the past, or previous regimes. Thank God, today these problems are being solved, and we are coming up with even the development of some key problems that sometimes burdened education, for example, and teaching in Bosnian, which were continuously noticeable in previous years. It is very important that missing textbooks be completed for these classes, to accept terms, such as Sandzak, "bosangzica" and others, and, of course, those from the Bosniak National Council who have had failures and failures of documents so that we have the Constitution fully according to these legal solutions and this educational process is rounded up. I would like to raise a few questions, really great was done by this Law on textbooks, and simply encouraged by the minister talking about the restoration of libraries -- how and how will we replace the lack of lecturers for teaching the native language, let's say, for those who attend classes in the language of the national communities, unless in our country we have some publisher who does so in particular? As we heard yesterday, some advocate that we should not import such literature from neighbouring countries. So it is very necessary and that this issue be settled. Also, what is noticeable from contact with other minority peoples, the issue of supplementary teaching abroad of members of national communities in consular departments where emigrants, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have the right to only listen and attend classes, or their children in Serbian. Given that we have a large number of non-Serb emigrants, it would be very important to prepare textbooks so that we can have it rounded up and be the first in the region to do so. Also, the Law on Educational Inspection is very important. It's something that was necessary, it's something that we're sure will solve any problems or at least go towards solving those problems that we have in the environments that aren't surrounded by the center. First of all, I think about those environments like Sandzak, where because of the lack of such systems of control we are faced with really big problems in the education system, i.e. abuse of positions and, let's say, those who are close to a criminal mile and close to certain local authorities, decide who will and who will not work in education etc. I am very grateful to the minister for confirming today that it is necessary to build another school in Novi Pazar. Namely, those who act on the local environment appear to be hard on the ears, so they did not hear that the opposition insisted on it and said that the funds were provided and that the ministry was willing to do so, as the minister today confirmed, but that the whole problem was up to local self-government. I am taking this opportunity to thank the local self-government that accepted that opposition initiative and launched an idea solution. Of course we need that educational inspection to solve the growing problem of gambling. Unfortunately, however good this venture of local self-government was on the initiative of a new school, it is so devastating that she, for example, issued a permit yesterday to another casino at a distance of 30 meters from the middle school of women's medressa get permission to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30914	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People, Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30915	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am truly surprised by the resuscitation of untruths. After the minister confirmed that no money has been provided in the ministry's budget, but that he will do everything to get that money out of European funds, I ask you, openly -- do you have six million euros in the budget at this time, as Mr Jahja says, to build a school in Novi Pazar, or do you not have half a million euros in the entire budget? (President: Just talk to me, please.) ) Please do not go out or hurt point 106 because of the collegiation and quality of the debate. Absolutely the previous speaker did not stick to the end of his talk on the subject that we should talk about and presented some flat-rate accusations and connected crime and our professors who work and with these small salaries try to be moral examples in schools. Once again, I ask the minister for the public to say whether he has the sixm euros in the budget, according to Mr Jahja, for the school in Novi Pazar, or whether he is the initiator and here points out that we will come from European funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30916	Thank you. As you know, it is very difficult for us as chairman to predict what and how the MPs will speak. There are you to point out, if you consider that the Rules of Procedure has been broken in any way, and to clearly specify which member of the Rules of Procedure it is. It's up to me to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Yahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30917	Thank you. The previous speaker did not specify a member who wanted to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (President: Article 106) Article 107, therefore, dignity. He's hard on his ears again. I didn't mention the budget, and I didn't mention the budget funds, but that the funds were intended and thanked the minister for his support, and everything else was a distortion of what I was saying. I ask you not to allow dignity to fall in this way. Neither did I mention professors, nor did I mention anyone who was honorable and who was doing his job according to what his job description was. Simply, this was one way to get the thought off of what I pointed out, which is that the city administration of Novi Pazar yesterday issued a permit to register another casino with 30 meters from high school, which is contrary to the law on gambling, where it must be 200 meters away from school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30918	Mr. Fehratovic, you too know very well that my obligation as chairman is that when the MP points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he gets the word. It is the legitimate right of every MP to have his own position. Mr. Bačevac, like you, has expressed your position and reasons why you believe that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been injured, and whether the Assembly is truly injured in voting day. So, it's up to me to just run a session and allow MPs to speak and I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure accordingly. But I have to ask you too – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Mr. Bacevic, did you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30919	I'd point to two moments. The school for children in Novi Pazar will work. The second moment is much more important, which you started the topic about, and that's a big diaspora. However, what other Balkan states, from the former Yugoslavia, once the SR of Yugoslavia, wherever they do not have the capacity or as much as Serbia now has, we find that resource very important, because the Serbs are out of Serbia. But in the Serbian schools that we have preserved, which we are designing, which we are trying to raise, to change the rules, to provide textbooks, also go to the children from Montenegro, they don't care, children from the Serbian Republic, from the Federation, from every region and there don't mind anyone. I couldn't even fix it in Serbia before, so I could get there. But it's important to open that question. I've recently received our consul from Istanbul and we've launched this particular story and I think we'll find the first solution there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30920	I thank Minister Sarčević. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30921	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have all agreed on one thing, which is that education and education are two very important areas of which we have sinned, which we have neglected and in order to restore the glow and education will have to take a long time and we will have to do a lot of things. Education and education are the heart and soul of every man, every single individual, every country. Imagine what it looks like and what a heartless man looks like, or without a soul. The same goes for one country, or any system. We obviously made a big mistake here. I've had the opportunity to study system theory in the context of my education. Professor Milos Rajkov was a professor who introduced me to secret system theories and by studying system theory I also studied organisational systems, and these are systems whose elements are members of people. These are systems that rest on human mind, and I've come to a conclusion that was surprising to me, but practice has shown that this conclusion is realistic, which is that these systems behave reasonably whenever they take advantage of all other possibilities. I don't know why we're like that. One of those organizational systems is this Assembly of ours. Today, colleagues and colleagues here criticised behavior and opposition and positions. Some of them said that we give a large number of amendments here to spend time, and they didn't see their mistake, or nobody wants to be honest and correct and say – wait, people, so we all make mistakes. We make mistakes because we endure hundreds of unnecessary additions to the agenda, we make mistakes because we give some amendments where only something is deleted. We, on the other hand, make mistakes for giving the same large number of amendments. What's all this for? All of this serves as a waste of time and damages all of our community, that is, for all people. Let's be reasonable, start using reason and say -- we're going to throw away what's unnecessary, unnecessary additions to the agenda, adopt the agenda for 10 hours, and we're going to throw out these amendments that really don't have any purpose. It'll be a lot easier for both of us. I say we are here one system that should work for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. After all, we took an oath where we committed to doing everything we did here in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. About these laws, what do we want? We want that when a prime minister proposes someone who will be minister of education or whatever the government is called in, we expect that man to be a wizard, to have a magic wand, and that he will now, with one move of that magic wand, solve everything that we have all ruined together in the past 10, 20, 50 years, doesn't matter. He can't. He can't do it with good faith. There is no man like that who can solve it all. Now we have the law on textbooks on the agenda, and we argue here, we express various opinions, and, thank God, that's good. But how will one minister or his assistants solve everything that was wrong? Like, what did we do in the previous laws? It was a 5% census for publishers. Now, of course, they're living people, so they can get in the circle of those who can run textbooks on all sides, they've run, we've run, we've opened up a place for corruption, they've given something to teachers and teachers and directors just to get past that 5% so that they can deal with this work and knowingly or unconsciously, a mistake has been made. Who's gonna fix that? Now he's on this minister and his team to correct. On the other hand, what have we done here? We've made the National Book Publishing Institute turn aside and slowly lose its market. I'm grateful to the minister, I don't want some big words now, to admire him and so on, but I appreciate what he said yesterday, my friend Kojicic, the director of the Institute, has to be a little bit more aggressive, and he and his associates, to chase, to take the place that belongs to him. Do I agree with the position of this office? No, I don't. I really think, no matter who likes it, who doesn't like it, that Serbian-language textbooks from history, geography, art must be controlled by the state and it has to be at the level of some state-run institution, as it's going to be called, it doesn't matter. Why? Because I don't want anyone writing to me in a geography textbook that Kosovo is a special state, that it's not in Serbia, that I don't want to be written in a history textbook that someone who was a hero wasn't a hero or anything like that. We have these cases where we come into a situation where our children, the generations of future people who try to lead this country, are being mistrained. That's why the state has to take over and deal with it. Where did we go wrong? We were wrong to take away a lot of government powers from the Ministry and the Minister when we were doing some autonomy, this and that, a lot of things that the state had to run as the founder of the state. We have an example, say, college advice. The membership in the council of states as founder has up to 30%. That sucks. You can't give money, you can be the founder, and someone else has whatever they want with those funds and you don't have the opportunity to change that. That's why we had so many irregularities. We almost had a board meeting on the Kragujevac case, and there are such cases in other cities, in other schools. Now, how is that going to solve someone who has no authority over it? Hardly. That's why we have to allow and try to get back to the state the rights that must have as founder, as someone who owns it. What else was I going to say about this textbook law? For example, the history textbook and every reader, in my opinion, would have to have in its composition the speech of the president of the state who gave 24th in Alexenco, because it was a historic speech, which put Serbia in the right place, honestly, what was happening to us, how they treated us. Enough is enough for us to hide it, to push it under the carpet, no, it should be said openly, and that speech is like that speech that Major Gavrilovic gave in Belgrade, ahead of the Austrian attack that was about to capture, enslaves our capital. Will they be able to do so and will it be accepted by various publishers who are not under the auspices of the national institution? It's probably not, but that's why our book publishing office has to be a little more aggressive and it has to take a more important place on the market for these textbooks. Yesterday, he was a representative of the SRS Professor. Seselj listed the data which many of that cake had now managed to win, I'm not going to say some ugly name and we see there are many outside that office. On the other hand, here we talked about the price of textbooks, and will these college cooperatives be able to help make textbooks cheaper? Well, they'll have to help them to help, because so far, there's been no control over how many margins these publishers are, how much they're using. One part of it will be something that someone will give up on the expense of the textbooks being cheaper. I can commend the ministry, especially the part for primary and secondary education from my Montenegrins and give them greetings, because they are grateful to both the elementary school from Black grass and high school, for the help and co-operation they have with them. I haven't been able to see a colleague of Pajic recently, I guess he's busy all over the field, but here I am conveying greetings and thanks for him and for counterpart Vesna Nedeljkovic, who, with their contribution, have done a lot for this underdeveloped part of Serbia. With their help, she was provided with little and learned, something and these textbooks and books of fiction and Blackwaters are very grateful to you for that. There's one more thing we can't forget. We have to respect our history, we have to respect this daily routine. About a few months ago, the Serbian Royal Academy of Scientists and Artists launched an action that would have led to our country's concern about the death of our people in the pogrom in 1999, which caused 19 of Europe's strongest countries, as part of NATO, etc. That is, where something must be done to protect the death of our people in that criminal bombing in 1999. The Serbian Royal Academy of Scientists and Artists is grateful to all those who are trying to run this fight and is ready to help both the government and any other commission that is dealing with the problem. As for the inspection service, what's the inspection? Revision, control, in a simple term, that's control. Without control, there's no success in any business, and we have to have more than one degree of control. If the ministry were able to have 50 or 30 inspectors and they could do their job regularly, because three, four, as many as they were, would hardly do the job when there are hundreds of schools. The situation would be much better. So I hope that in future, normally, changes to this law, if there are new changes to be made, that they will solve this problem and that through the three-degree degree of control we will succeed in changing, or improving everything that is wrong with our education system. In the end, I'd just like to remind you all of one great fellow of our Nikola Tesla, who, in about 1920, set up a doctrine that is now called the Tesla doctrine of education. He wasn't satisfied with the education system, he said that if it went on like this, it would be a disaster. I don't think it's gone very far, but the essence of that doctrine of his is that the doctrine of the education system has to rest on three pillars, one is social, the other is moral and the third is spiritual. It's enough for each of us to wonder how much we've done in any of these three systems to see where our education is. What is the future of our education system? The way we'll make it. If we try, if we are unique and understand and sublime what we all say, both sides and third parties, we all say that education is the most important, that it is the basis of every system, every society, then let us help the ministry to solve all that we have managed to count. It won't be possible for a day, it won't be possible in a year, but Serbia will not live just a day and a year, but will live for centuries. That's why it's up to the minister and his team to roll up their sleeves, and thank God, the minister boasted yesterday that he was young and 39 years old and that he had every honour for this part of primary and secondary education. I don't understand much about that problem, I admit, but I'm glad someone knows a lot more about it than I do and when he's ready to do it and when he does it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30922	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. She's not present. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a set of five laws in a united debate, of which three laws apply to the field of education. I will refer to these three laws relating to the field of education. The fact that we are passing these three laws today is not mandatory for these laws to solve all the problems that exist in education. Unfortunately, there are many, many problems in our education today. If we go back to just a period of fifteen years ago, to the period before October 5th, we look at the regulations and laws that apply to education, compare them with today's regulations and acts, in the first wave we'll think that there was a real revolution in the field of education. However, if we take a closer look at all this, we can conclude that it's not a revolution, I'd say it's a counter-revolution. Today's education is at lower levels than it was 15 years ago, I responsibly claim as a man who spent his entire working life in the field of education. People who work in education still cannot master all the concepts that have been introduced into education for the past 15 years. In my opinion, the purpose of education is to get some proper knowledge, to get a degree, like tickets to do the right job. However, today in the field of education, especially in education regulations, the concept of a diploma is almost not used. So there are a huge number of concepts that are simply unacceptable and unacceptable to the human ear and educational workers are not used to them yet, they don't even know what they mean, let alone apply them in practice. I will just list some of these concepts that dominate our education system today: development of competence, learning outcomes, qualifications standards, integrated knowledge set, flexibility of paths in education, informational learning, validation of informational and informal learning, inter-entity competences, career management and counselling, sectoral higher, public recognition of education operators, descriptors of the level of qualifications, dual education, European qualification framework, Bologna process, Dublin descriptors, pedagogical assistants. I could count a lot more, a lot more, but only from what I've said here can you see which way our education goes. Believe me, the average man in education can't master these concepts, nor can he deal with them. In addition, we have a whole series of different teams for this, for that, and then if all of this were to be consistently applied in practice, the educator would have no chance of committing himself to the basic one, which is to transfer his knowledge to students and students. Education is of paramount importance and it has always been so throughout history, because everything that man has created and promoted in his history has been done thanks to education. How important education is, here, I'm just going to give you one example. Philip of Macedonia wrote about Aristotle – I thank the gods for giving me a son, and I thank you for what happened during your life. No doubt Aristotle deserved something like this, but this is the most beautiful chamber ever written in the human mind. Today, however, it is almost as if education is made of something that should not be. Serbia today's true educational institutions, we all have to admit that. Our European path has destroyed our education, and if this continues for a certain period, after a time, there will be an even worse situation than it is now. What's learning in schools today? He learns how to make a CV, how to make a video presentation, though, he learns and what marketing is, but it's not said to be a science of how to instill an unnecessary thing. Physics, chemistry, and other fundamental sciences, these are areas from some past times where it is no longer considered important. The students learn today that there is nothing to know, in terms of nothing to keep in mind, everything can be found on Google. But if a man doesn't know anything, he can be forced into anything. An empty head is very suitable to put whatever you want into it. Consumer society dominates today, and the main resource of consumer society is illiterate. Such a society does not need a man, it does not need an educated man, but needs a consumer who is always ready to spend. Spend what? That he spends everything he's told. Today's man, especially the young man, needs iPhone 8, even though he hasn't even met the functions of iPhone 4. But society and education and a general trend that moves not only our society, but in the world at all points to it. As soon as the consumer gets his hands on some new toys, he looks at any way to get rid of the old one. For the consumer society, it would be ideal for you to buy something, keep it at home, not unpack it, dump it on the trash, then buy a newer thing and do the same thing with it. So the absence of serious education leads to an enormous number of educated ignorants. It's always possible for such people to manipulate and no mathematics, no English can save them from it. People like that don't know they're being manipulated. That's why we have a lot of great students, great students, but it didn't bring them luck, it didn't even bring them material benefits. This is because society has imposed false orientations on them, and they're after these orientators. Students and students today are deliberately deprived of integrated knowledge. I almost read it somewhere...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30924	I'm just asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30925	... that a history teacher worked at a school who didn't know the answer to the question of who the Bolsheviks were. However, I must admit it is not in our country, but it is in one of the countries of the region. Since time is running out, I have a lot to say, but I'm going through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30926	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30927	There's only one sentence I'd like to point out to the fact that we don't have to prescribe from anyone, nor are we meant to. Chapters 25 and 26 that we have opened and closed temporarily do not condition us. So we have the right to create our education system as we please. We can discuss what Bologna brought to high school, but in pre-university we preserved all the values of national high school and certain reforms just added to the quality of children. I personally agree that children learn a lot and that they need to learn even more, especially fundamental sciences. But if you just give them a theory without being able to do lab exercises and practice, then it's our bad organization. It's the reform processes that we're changing, to give them just more. In this country, most of all, it needs an engineer right now. Without that, I can't, so let me tell you that it's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30928	Thank you. You want a replica? Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30929	Mr. Minister, all the things I've been saying, I haven't thought about you in the first place, I even have the impression that you're trying to make some of these things that I've been saying right, but these are things that have been inherited since October 5th and here. It seems to me that you don't seem enough to mass these things which are not only unnecessary, but are harmful. So you don't do enough to eliminate them. Today, we have millions and millions of different seminars from which these seminars hardly teach that educators master information technologies. It's just that they're learning some really lame stuff out there. So if something doesn't change even more drastically, believe me, this is how our education has no perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30930	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30931	The largest number of trainings we're doing right now are digital training. So, the electronic log conditioned that the entire facility knows basic digital literacy. So really, believe me, it's something that's been going on and on for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30932	Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30933	Here, I responsibly argue that 99% of the educators today do not know how to handle the "excel" program and make some of the most basic programs that will perform that statistics on average grades and everyone else. But that's why some other things that I and most educators have no use for, which is why they always have a priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30934	I thank my colleague Saviæ. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30935	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of laws in the field of education, state administration, infrastructure, or catastra. At the very beginning, I would like to dedicate myself to the Law on Electronic Administration and an opportunity to look back on the work of the Ministry of State Administration, where I would like to begin by commending the work of almost a year and Minister Branko Ruzic and their co-workers from the ministry. To say that the Law on Electronic Administration is necessary, that it is necessary, that it will bring a lot of good to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and above all about saving the cost of going to city and municipal administrations. So they can get a lot from their house on their home computer. On the other hand, what I would point out as a potential problem is that they need to get it through officials in the city council. Now what's the problem, Mr. Minister? The problem is that these officials in municipalities and cities are getting smaller and smaller. The other problem is that the structure of these officers is becoming more unfavourable. Unfortunately, for a few years now, we have been under ban, a public sector employment ban, which, I must say, has had a very bad impact on officials in municipal and city administrations and the age structure of people is very bad. If by the end of the year we have that regulation in place, we cannot do much about it, I think the ministry could help municipalities without asking the committee of the Ministry and the Government of Serbia to employ at least students, or students, without leading them to that worker quota for a certain time, because most of the cities and municipalities in Serbia are scholarshipd by the best students from their territory. Unfortunately, they go to bigger cities and bigger places after graduation. In this way, we will have an increasingly unfavourable age structure in the municipalities. Because the question is, how are you going to keep some city architect who currently has a salary in the interior of Serbia in a municipality or a city of 45 or 50,000 dinars, and should also do legal work and electronic permits and tomorrow's electronic administrations? That's one real question we all need to answer together. On the other hand, until recently, Mr. Ruzic, you've been here with us as a folk MP, I've spoken several times in this home over the past few years that a question should be addressed in an adequate way to fund local self-government. Unfortunately, there is still that Dinkic's law and regulation, there from some 2006 or 2007 which we have all been very critical of, but here he is already surviving for ten years here, and we today don't even know by which criteria, for example, Koseric has been damaged for decades and then we talk about how this municipality is in charge, and some other municipalities have five times the budgets, and they get money from transfer funds than they should have. Only because at that time these presidents of the municipality were from G17+, or Dinkic's party. This is a serious problem and a serious issue that we should all simply deal with and that you as a resolution ministry come out by the end of the year together before the adoption of a new budget with the Ministry of Finance, with an adequate proposal in which a fair way will address this problem of funding local self-government. On the other hand, I would sincerely praise the agility of Minister Sarčević and I would only ask you one thing, Mr. Minister, and I would ask you, there is today the Law on Educational Inspection, and we unfortunately, for many years I have been head of local self-government, we have today a problem that you have seen in previous years, which is, and just before Professor Stojimirovic talked about high education, and I would like to talk about basic and medium where we have school committees in schools that are completely overcome and under the urgent, distinguished ministers, it is necessary to change. Currently, local self-government has an impact on itself, and the Ministry of Education and local self-government is 100 per cent and primary and secondary schools. The school boards number nine members, of which local self-government appoints three, and three are from the ranks of parents, and three are from the ranks of teachers. It's a nice director who's always got five members. The directors became here as protected white bears, which is very hard to replace, and then we're all in trouble together. Everyone here wonders more than municipalities and cities and from the ministry who actually fully finance the work of primary and secondary schools. You promised, and I had the opportunity to see it through the media, that this situation would change quickly. I appeal to you, you will have full support of us as MPs, and I believe a colleague who runs local self-government to change this situation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30936	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word first comes from Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30937	In short, when we passed the system law on education, we said that there were more practices on how school committees are formed. It was that we had countries in Europe where there are in most countries, but we defined ourselves for this democratic principle that doesn't mind a further story. Then she was a moan, too strong a minister, she's gonna rape herself, she's gonna do a lot of things. What did we do now that it didn't all happen in practice? decentralisation, the role of local self-government, the role of parents, must be respected, just the story that gives the democratic framework. We went to one philosophy, that in this period everyone who works has a chance to go through training, even those who want to apply for directors. I don't have an army of finished men to put in place of these, like I'm playing chess. It's just that it's not my role either, but it's a role to make an environment, that both inspection and school boards and unions, not one, all unions, have the right to say what's wrong, to be tested, and where it's really bad, where it doesn't respond to violence, where it's dealing with money, so to speak, to do some other illicit stuff, it's a shift. We can't take someone down just because he's still out of surgery, you understand. If we ask the collectives, they'll have an opinion for now. It's based still on it, so maybe they're making me not work, I know that, but we're talking about another tool. I mentioned earlier that we adopted before New Year's Eve a law that will regulate paying classes and fluctuate the labour price through the quality that has been achieved, which will be measured. With such a director, he doesn't want any collectives to have a third category of salary. You know, it's not worth it. We're going to that variant. Then, you saw that we said to those who ended the mandate and had a unit, a two, they won't be able to take into account even though local self-government weighs them, or someone else weighs them. We've already had cases like this, but thank God, in the minority. People, consciously, with a sober head, so we didn't go to the cleaners, we didn't go to some lustration, I don't know what, let's go to it normally, spontaneously, have conversations, invite people, get on our feet. So this is harder for us, it would be easier to order, or have a dictatorship, but I think this way we're going to make better relations with both local self-government and with directors, with parents, with everyone. We're giving them clear messages. We have one 10 teams dealing with various models, to see that in that municipality, that city, in that and that institution, it's handled well. Somehow our people like to see a model. I agree with you that it can't stay out of the way overnight, I don't agree that we're working violently, but that we have insight into everything, we have, and that control will have its own facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30938	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30939	Thank you. On the very trail of what the MP Jovanovic said, I think he covered several topics, not only of the law on electronic administration, so he also touched on the reform of the pay system, he touched on, of course, the rationalisation and optimization that we are carrying out during this time. It is precisely the law on the eGovernment that relies in some way, on the Law on Administrative Procedure, and on all administrative matters which practically, citizens as holders of sovereignty work with the state, now assumes a system basis to be imported in an electronic way. So, the digitisation itself, I repeat again, is not a technical and technological process exclusively, but also a social process, does not automatically mean receiving new employees in administrations. But look what we've done in the past, and I really thank you for your kind words. For example, this segment of education, has been passed the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration, where we are about to have the opportunity to educate all officers from local self-government units so that they can acquire certain knowledge and skills and work precisely on those jobs that are needed and follow the digitalisation process. As for the very heights of receiving employees in units of local self-government, even in autonomous provinces, therefore, it is the subject of the law, but it is primarily based on our economic strength as a state. I think that, in this respect, we are also going the right way, to implement fiscal consolidation that we have much greater tax awareness, much greater responsibility, and in this sense I expect us to use this year to prepare all the sublegal acts so that this reform of the pay system, the pay classes, everything that counterpart Sarcevic mentioned, would be able to do, with effect from these laws that were passed in December 2019, so on January 1, 2019. What is really accurate is that we have made savings in the budget since the end of 2013, when the process of rationalisation, which was a dry need, was simply a matter of saving about 180m euros, and in this sense I think it is a really big step forward, which would not be possible unless there was awareness of the need and responsibility for such a single process to be implemented in practice. Also, in parallel, we have a situation of new investment, of job creation, because one without another simply could not be sustainable. In part, I agree with your finding that there are certain discrepancies in transfers to local self-government units, i.e. It may be called a partial relapse of some possible political decisions from an earlier period, but I must remind you that the transfers for local self-government units in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, but certainly, as a minister in charge among other things, and for local self-government, have been on the subject for a long time, and I think we will finally come up with some correct solution that will be sustainable for all local self-government and based on one criterion of even redistribution of financial resources. So much in response.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30940	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. He's not present. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30941	Dear Ministers with associates, honourable fellow MPs, I will talk about the draft law on national structure and geospace data. By passing this law, a legal framework will be created for the establishment and maintenance of the national structure and geospace data in the Republic of Serbia. This law fully transposes national legislation and EU Directives. The economy and the public sector require easy access to geospace data that are in the jurisdiction of public institutions, geospace data and services are necessary for use in areas such as environmental protection, land and water management, transport, immovableity market, development of positional and non-legislative systems, defences, security and others. The national structure of geospace data represents an integrated system of geospace data that allows users to identify which they access spatial information from different sources, from local to global. In a comprehensive way, the NIP represents a framework within which a broad-use policy is developed, reduce administrative costs and prevents duplication of costs on their security. In order to successfully establish NIPs, co-operation between stakeholders with a focus on maintenance, sustainable funding for the collection of reference data, and in addition a close link to the administration and the backbone of the development of efficient e-services. In the context of the accession of the Republic of Serbia's EU process, and Chapter 27 relating to the environment and climate change. The Republic Geodetic Institute is responsible for implementation and a directive that should help in the process of policymaking and activities that can have a direct or indirect impact on the environment. The proposal for this law in Article 4 provides for advice from the NIP and the working bodies of the NIP to establish the national structure of geospace data. The NIP council has 17 members who appoint and resolve the government, on a proposal, for a period of four years. The work of the NIP council is being managed by the president. The President of the NIP Council is the Director of the Republic Institute. In addition to the president and the other 16 members of the NIP Council, they are representatives of the ministry and special organisations, which, within their jurisdiction, use and dispose of geospace data. With this bill, the Republic Geodetic Institute is responsible for communication and co-operation with the European Commission regarding the implementation of the ENP Directive. By trusting the business of the Republic Geodetic Institute in the proposal for this law, it is a great recognition and obligation in the year of the completion of the 180-year geodetic profession and 70-year existence and work of the Republic Geodetic Administration, and since 1992, the Republic Institute has been a legal follower of the Republic Geodetic Administration. The Republic Geodetic Institute, as a state body, has been working to carry out expert geodetic administrative tasks in the area of national diameter, a housing catastra and a water cadastre, as well as a series of established new competences entrusted to it since 2002 until today. All entrusted tasks The Republic Geodetic Institute successfully performs thanks to continued concern about human resources, the acquisition and introduction of new technologies, investment in human resources, their continuous training through the maintenance of expert seminars, counselling, workshops, software development, construction and reconstruction, the adaptation of business spaces, the acquisition of geodetic instruments, computers and other necessary equipment. Co-operation with the World Bank, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Norway and Japan, France, Germany, Austria and the EU, enables quick, modern, modern, modern way for citizens of Serbia, investors, the registration of rights to immovable property and real rights on it, which is security for domestic and foreign investors to invest in production capacities to create new jobs and hire young, educated workers. It's the policy of our president, Alexander Vukic and the SNS. This was shown by citizens in the recent local elections in Belgrade, Arangelovac, Bor, Sevojn and Smederjevska Palanca, giving great support and confidence to SNS and to our President, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30942	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. (Not present. ) The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30943	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today and today we are discussing a set of very important laws in the field of state administration and education reform. I expect the E-Government Act to feel citizens and businesses, as well as all employees. This way, the bill speeds up the digitisation of Serbia, which is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and you have worked with both the previous minister and the current minister, and there you really deserve all the praise. Most importantly, the benefits of this law, which I hope will be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will be felt by all citizens, which saves both time and costs, which reduces administrative costs, increases legal certainty and transparency, but also, in my opinion, what is most important, reduces corruption. When you introduce modern technologies into the state administration, you reduce the possibility that any request is in the drawer of any individual and that individual in any way decides whether or not to solve it. We are also introducing this law because we are harmonising our legislation with the EU, but I think it is very important in this high House to say that we are first and foremost introducing this law because of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that we are in a process of transforming the E-Government together with other countries in the region. I think, in addition to the important documents, the strategic documents that this law contains are very important civil servants working on this law. That is why it is also very important that as a ministry, you take care of human resources, to take care of the rationalisation of public administration, to keep these people in constant training, but also what my colleague, respected Dragan Jovanovic, has warned about, as well as the fact that in local self-government because of a regulation that has been in place for several years, we do not have enough adequate staff in this area. Why do we still need the E-Government Act? We are breaking this law with a verse and unstandardized practice, interrupting with the possibility that any institution as until now, willingly, because of its own personal interests introduces modern technologies and does so without rules, as it suits them. I will set an example of only some municipalities applying Article 126. The ZUP, but also those who don't apply it, and when on two the same counters, they ask for the same document from the citizens. It is very important to break the practice that we have registers that contain the same type of data, to end with every type of arbitraryity in the application of this law. Of course, both small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from this law for the sake of urgency and for the safety of their data protection. The minister cited several examples of how important E-Government is, and I will list one when it comes to citizens first of all who change their last name. I'm very glad that as a ministry you saw it in the right way, and in the light of this law, you listed the exact number of data as to how many citizens change their last name because of their marriage and thus, according to the rules so far, they had to have two departures to the MUP and three waitings in line, plus confidence in the performance of married, citizenship, born. This whole thing is breaking up with this law. I am saying all this because of the citizens of Serbia, to understand the importance of adopting this law on EGG. In the end, I would have two questions for the distinguished Minister Ruzic, my longtime colleague from parliament. How will this law regulate even electronic payment in post office and banks? My opinion is that this issue should be more precisely defined and terms related to Article 4 of this Law, so my question is whether sublegislative acts will solve this issue, because it is important in a more precise way to define both the concept of communication and the concept of a single-communication network of the organs of many web portals and services. When it comes to the sets of education laws, you have interrupted the practice so far, the ministers, which most of them, not all of them, but a large number of your predecessors somehow either had no support or turned their heads from the reform of education that is necessary and for a very short time we here with these laws that are proposed, I would say, we are rounding up a basic set of laws that are necessary for further education reform. The fact is, and you mentioned a ten-year deadline, that Serbia is one of the few countries that does not have a National Qualifications Framework and that this bill is in fact an opportunity to lay the fundamental foundations of the national qualification framework, of course, necessary bodies and procedures for its development and implementation. The fact is that we have many qualifications, especially in higher education, that employers are confused by the multitudes of many professional academic and scientific titles. Those in diplomas find no relationship with profession and no impression of what someone can do on the basis of a diploma acquired. This is why the National Qualifications Framework aims to link qualifications and standards of interest and to present this through the register to both citizens and employers. It is very important that the National Qualifications Framework defines what skills and skills an individual has after acquired education and what kind of work he can do. However, ministers, this law, the National Qualifications Framework is not intended for information education to be valued at the levels foreseen for higher education, and we have in practice a great offer in the area of IT technology when it comes to formal education. Citizens are interested in regulating the area and my question to you is whether it will be regulated by sublaws. Of course, the National Qualifications Framework is also important for citizens who have been educated at different universities and educational institutions and who should have equal rights to work, which has not been the case so far. Due to the absence of the National Qualifications Framework, different stakeholders protected the interests of individual educational groups. Now, with the National Qualifications Framework proposal, in a way, we are absolutely certain to put aside this quasi lobbyist. The other day, a draft law on lobbying was also published that, in my opinion, would circle this irregularity, because I think the law must protect the acquired qualification. As far as the new Law on textbooks is concerned, it is necessary for a number of reasons. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System has foreseen new curricula and programmes for the first and fifth grade of primary school, digital textbooks are also planned, but new standards and instructions on their application are also needed. The previous law did not rightly edit textbooks in the languages of national minorities, but also books in format and content that are adapted to people with disabilities. Minister, I think the most important thing is to teach our students to think about the new Bookbook Act. I follow as a pedagogical specific research, and it is estimated that children who go to the first grade of primary school this year will change their profession 11 times during their lives. Also, it is estimated that 50% of the current professions will be abolished in 15 years. Educational system carriers are in practice our distinguished teachers and teachers. That is why it is important to hear their voice, to meet their demands, but also to work on their constant training. Because of what I said, I will support the proposed laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30944	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30945	I'll be very brief. First of all, I want to thank you for all the constructive questions and findings that are just showing and proving the importance of this law that lies before you today. As for questions relating to professional terminology, which gives rise to this law, simple, elaborated, given that it is really professional, the development of all these provisions of the law will be done in 12 sublegal acts which will, of course, prescribe, among other things and technological standards that will be much clearer and more precisely defined. As far as payment issues are concerned, what we have so far in the field of security payments, card payments, post-terminal on counters, we have e-mail accounts and what we expect, i-banking, which will certainly function. The question of a single information communications network, which is certainly the most important, is something that follows and is good. When it becomes unique, the moment when many others, any portals, any registers, are imported into one system and start to function interoperably, making it easier and functioning and what is the essence of digitisation, and that is to help citizens and businesses not to waste time, but rather that these data, based on the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, are exchanged between state authorities. I don't know if there were any more questions, I may not have written everything down, but, in my opinion, important, besides all these e-services, since one of Mr. Sarčević's topics is an educational inspection, I want to remind, as I did yesterday, of the "e-inspector" platform, which is practically a model and tool to facilitate and improve and modernise the work of inspections in Serbia. There are 41 of them, and this year the pilot of the project participates and six inspections are networked at the level of the Republic, so it will certainly facilitate the work and educational inspections in the following year. This is also the answer to the question asked by his colleague Jovanovic, and it is related to the age of the inspectors themselves. So the age is unsustainably high, over 54 years, now I'm only talking about inspectors and inspection services, doing their job, inspection supervision, etc., as well as their status which is not always, I'd say, welcome by those who are subject to inspection. What this platform will certainly bring is, in addition to this modernisation and the means to work, we will have, practically, inspectors who are educated, who will have their laptop, all inspections will be networked, there will be no time, there will be no selective approach, there will be no one's cap on that same inspection going into one and the same economic operator. Of course, there is also the possibility of self-evaluation under the inspection law of the economic operator to prepare itself for inspection. So, all these things may not seem interesting enough to someone and they don't look like an extenuating circumstance for the functioning and at all state administration, but I think they're just tiny pieces of mosaic that will lead to that ultimate goal, which is the reformed public administration in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30946	I thank Minister Ruzic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30947	Just to thank my colleague Dubravka, because this is how we have circled certain sets of laws regarding education. Of course we still have a series of laws that we're going to get to somewhere in the summer, hopefully, about science, about standard, student, student, about funding higher education. Sublegal acts will regulate what you yourself said about certain occupations, especially for the development of the IT sector, and here we have the whole IT advice that deals with this. The law on textbooks is also very important to teach children to think, much more important are trained teachers. Much more important are the plans and programs they get, the tools they work for. Much, much more importantly, I'll repeat the tenth time, the textbook is an auxiliary teaching tool, the teacher is in charge. They ask the teachers and how, the seminars are held throughout Serbia and the directors and them, we have put into the law 12 centres, and Belgrade will be the 13th Centre for the Professional Training of Teachers, and this is now a good resource, a good network, after living this SBS model, which we now have in money, and this regular means, so training for new models and ways of working is a real part of the reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30948	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30949	Dear Chairman, Ministers and Ministers' Associates, I will praise the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, headed by Minister Branko Ruzic, for the introduction of an electronic administration, which means a new era with far greater and better benefits for citizens and for the functioning of the state. So, I will, given that I have worked in education for many years, in education, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, and in my own name, present some views and impressions of the set of laws in the field of education. So, today when we talk about the laws that are ahead of us, which are the proposal for a law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law on textbooks and the Proposal for a Law on Educational Inspection, we can say that this is absolutely a strong step and can be said to be a quality upgrade of our legislation for further improving the very content of our education system. It is clear, therefore, that we in education today have a number of problems and shortcomings and we can criticise them, but we should also say that we do not sit down and that competent entities are doing everything possible to improve our education system and therefore we have a shift in one positive sense. Therefore, without any reservation, I can express my opinion that you, Mr. Minister Sarčević, are really with your associates all the time since you have been very committed, is such an impression, and it seems or can be seen, in order to better organise work, in the direction and quality of the education process in the Republic of Serbia. Noting that we have had significant steps and achievements before in the management of this area, and I will mention the period during which the minister was Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, whose time has passed seven laws here in the National Assembly, you, Mr. Minister Sarčević, with your associates, are doing everything you can to see and feel continuity in the work in this area, consistency in the further upgrade of the legislative legislation and in the conduct of order. In this regard, and how important is the National Qualifications Framework Act of the Republic of Serbia, which establishes a single and integrated national qualification framework, which covers all levels of education and interest, regardless of the form of acquisition, whether it is carried out through formal, informal or informal education, i.e. life experience, etc. This law also pays attention to the category of lifelong education. What is very significant, I would also say, is that this law, that is, this area of the National Qualifications Framework, successfully coordinates with the European Qualifications Framework, which means that it represents an inseparable part of it and that it represents a functional part in the European educational space. When it comes to the law on textbooks, I will draw attention only to the provisions of the law relating to the provision of an expert evaluation of the quality of textbook manuscripts, as well as to the expert opinion on the quality of handbook manuscripts. I fear that, in some cases, these expert commissions are formally doing their job or above, or may pay particular attention to the professional content of the text of the textbook, not taking into account the principle of phasing out and appropriateness of the level of professional content given to the age of which the textbook is intended, nor does it take into account the educational and methodical principles relevant for the adoption of new facts and knowledge. I could set a specific example here, but I won't. I'm sure I'll have a chance to talk to you in person. This example is just saying, it is illustrative in this sense that it is, in fact, one sentence the size of a paragraph, and through that sentence is explained the whole complex process of metabolic processes in one way that is understood by only those who have finished certain colleges, or higher education. Therefore, I believe that closer conditions for selecting members of the expert commission, whether they are employees of the Bureau or those outside the office should be prescribed by the minister. Finally, when it comes to the Law on Educational Inspection, it should be pointed out that this is a new law and that it defines the specificities of the procedure and the position of an educational inspection in relation to what defines the general inspection law. It is therefore logical that this law contains uniform provisions relating to the inspection of the system law on the basis of the education and education system, as set out in the specific laws in the field of education, relating to the inspection. Of course, the law is a good basis for greater order, which is imperative, so to speak, for you and all of us for better organisation and legality in our education system. Finally, dear Minister Sarčević, I am taking the opportunity to express my satisfaction and gratitude for your promise to visit the Petrovic municipality of Mlava in due time. There's local self-government in the past, and now she's done a lot for better school conditions, and I hope we get a chance to give a boost for further progress. We'll vote for these laws anyway. I declare this on my behalf and on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30950	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30951	Of course I'll keep my promise that as soon as the Easter Day is over, we'll agree to come to Petrovac at Mlava. What you've noticed is that there are still some things we need to sort out about this conditioned quality control. It is much more important, however, that we have managed to make all the bodies that, in a broader sense, make up the ministry and their associates, the institute, which in some translation is called the institute... So now they're cooperating bodies. It took time for everyone to realize it and it was much more important to write something. Now there's this synergy in the work, in the negotiation, the coordination of everything that leads to some efficiency. I'm sorry I like that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30952	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30953	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers with associates, at the very beginning I will say that the JS parliamentary group will support all draft laws in the day of voting, both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. If I have to explain my reasons in particular, I think my colleagues have already said enough why we're going to support these laws. The citizens of Serbia know very well that the JS principle programme and that our president, distinguished, Dragan Markovic Palma, is fighting for social justice, that for many years we have been fighting for a better position of students, students and even citizens of Serbia, that we have fought to form a pro-European government, and therefore all these laws that agree with EU programmes will, of course, support JS. What I particularly want to point out, given that I have very little time, for the sake of saving time, is that I want to speak to the Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević. The Ministry of Education is making great efforts in reforming the education system and as an MP coming from the interior, from the Municipality of Alexandrovac, I can freely say that the Minister of Education and Associates of the Ministry of Education keep their word. The Minister of Education, along with his associates, kept the word and visited the Municipality of Alexandrovci on the day of school where they saw current problems. Also, along with the Office for Investment Investments, the Ministry of Education supported the reconstruction of the primary school in Alexandrovac, as well as the restoration of the library in Aleksandrovac. We have great hope that in the future, which is very important to us who come from the interior, and all primary schools in the villages, say rural schools will be restored, reconstructed or the current problems in the field will be solved. Also, when it comes to the digitalization process, it's very important that ministers... (President: Bring the end. Let me finish. ... that children and in smaller municipalities will be adapted to the program of digitisation, digital textbooks, digital classes as well as children in large schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30954	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30955	Thank you, but you may have noticed that we are also visiting villages. There is no school that is large or small, Serbian, minority or some other nation, on KIM that does not have the same treatment. So it's absolutely just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30956	I thank the ministers. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30957	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, respected associates, respected MPs, as we have heard today, there are three laws in the field of education and all three aim to improve, better and faster regulate the area to which they apply. The first of these, I will look at it the most, is the National Qualifications Framework Bill, which is particularly innovative because for the first time they connect learning and knowledge acquisition and put into operation and employment opportunities in one systematic way. It's been a long time to enroll in schools that neither children nor parents know what will happen after school, what will happen when schools are completed, and then for years they are waiting and looking for a job, of course in the profession often and without success. That's how a young man's life is ruined. It's hard to get him to form a family. The family is suffering. He's suffering from the state. Serbia no longer has the resources for such a thing and there is no justification for long wait and passivity. This law governing the relationship between school, knowledge and education and the labour market was long needed to be passed and its proposals and continents existed at a time when Minister Zarko Obradovic was, but it is good that we are achieving this continuity now. Now the national qualification framework provides the basis for all the overall skills and skills to be applied in the work, which is very important, and it allows them to acquire and learn through formal education, through informal education, informational, and comprehensive learning throughout life. This puts an individual in an active role in the acquisition of knowledge and skills, and education is given adequate value. Employment is excluded once and for all. Employment through a connection is excluded. Political employment is excluded and so on. This, but also other reforms that take place in education should be first on the scale of value. I particularly underline that, and that should be our national goal and our national interest. Education must no longer and no longer be seen as an insecure, long and inefficient path to success. The goal of the school should be to teach a young man that knowledge is capital, to teach a young man to think and to constantly develop his interests. Our school today hasn't achieved that level yet, and unfortunately we haven't implemented that comprehensive reform, but we're doing it. The material is still extensive, burdened with unnecessary or unclear parts, directed towards learning by heart, as the Scriptures show. The work method's out of date. There are insufficient competences and indifference of educators, and there are problems of textbooks, which we have talked about, and what this next law also wants to draw attention to and improve things in this sphere. All this must be seriously resolved in order for Serbia to catch up with the time and rapid changes in this sphere as soon as possible. It is therefore good that a national qualification framework is adopted which is the basis for all future changes. That is why the labour market must also develop faster because it is a condition that what we can acquire through education can be applied. The problem with Serbia is that young people still have no place to work, which they cannot change jobs according to education and, unfortunately, it is a big problem in Serbia – once the job is lost, it cannot be found. Fear of losing a job is greater than fear of disease. It is therefore important for the labour market to say what needs to be done and how it should be developed, and for education to provide basic functions in any case. We're in one hard, complex job. It's not impossible to accomplish. Let's remember Serbia in the 19th century, which came from an undeveloped Serbia's golden success in education. We can do so today with a systematic, good approach and the goal of a proactive approach being present, that they cannot be incompetent to rule and that there is a school without violence that will be prosperous and successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30958	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30959	If you please, let me just complete what you've been saying and remind me – when we've passed system laws to prepare for serious reforms for two years. We've cut all these deadlines and already done some things a lot, but the main principle, the concept we're talking about, is the change of the old concept. In order to apply the new concept of learning and what we're talking about in system law, we need to go to serious work. The law is just a framework. We've done some serious work, most of the work. It's a national framework of plan and programme. We call it that. Then we brought reform plans and programmes in cycles 1st, 5th and 1st high school. So in a short time, much more has been done than prepared, and now this period to somewhere there in August, until the beginning of the school year is a blow. That's why we're intensively training the director so they can get involved in that system. We've created external associates, first 200 with another 300, in the area of violence another 100, fighting it. So it's already designing the whole system. Only then do these legal frameworks, which we now do, come to terms. All this synchronisedly follows a call for textbooks, digitization and all that. The real goal of the reform will be in the course of the entire school year 2018/2019. Because intensive digitisation will be at the end of this calendar year and throughout the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30960	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30961	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, after a detailed and systematic public debate, the draft e-Government law is ready for assembly debate. The proposal shows that certain issues will be dealt with systematically and that it is precisely working to improve the relationship between state administration and citizens, to speed up communication between state services, and to catch up with the world and circle Serbia's modernisation. Citizens will communicate more easily with the state. Economic prosperity will be greater because the level of legal certainty will be greater, as well as the transparency of work, which reduces the space for corruption and other abuses of public authority, and the time and energy and resources used in this area are being saved and administrative costs will be reduced. Serbia managed to introduce new values and new technologies in the previous period. It is very important to say that modern technologies will prevent abuses, influence that requests are resolved systemically, so that this will no longer depend on the goodwill of individuals, but will allow transparent, simple and efficient work of public services. Citizens and businessmen will meet their needs faster and cheaper, and it will be easier for civil servants to do their job. The analyses have shown that the effects expected by applying this law will be a key factor in attracting investment and creating new jobs. In this way, by making such a bill, the government is making efforts to make Serbia a better place to live. Accordingly, I call on colleagues and colleagues to support this, as well as any other proposals tabled by the government in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30962	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30963	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30964	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues, I will talk today about the e-government law, above all because fellow predecessors spoke about laws concerning the Ministry of Education and somewhere after former Minister Zarko Obradovic for me would be too much of a bite to say anything on the subject of these laws, except that, as well as my colleagues, I will support the day to vote. The finding that the reform of the public administration, which began several years ago, is being given its full capacity by adopting a bill that is now on the agenda, i.e. the e-government law, is now a factual state that simply refutes all of the so far's malice of conjecture and comments, as well as estimates of the absurdity of the digitalisation processes in Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's exposé. Serbian citizens understood the necessity of such an improvement in the functioning of the state apparatus, so from this distance and indigestion, comments can be seen by consequence, primarily by not knowing the needs of the citizens and then by the digitalisation process itself. The area of electronic administration is more important in the overall reform of the public sector, especially because of the fact that it is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say that the main priority is to create an efficient, professional, modern, safe and rational public administration, which is certainly not without modern electronic systems. The regulated system of public and state services, using electronic services, is one of the foundations for efficient state administration and the creation of electronic administrations in full capacity. In the wake of the digital revolution, the Republic of Serbia is approaching some of Europe's most developed countries, when it comes to the public administration and its functioning, just by creating one of these legal frameworks to support innovation is new technologies. The draft e-Government Act will provide a legal framework for the smooth electronic communication of citizens and businesses with state administration, communication and exchange of data between different authorities of the state administration, as well as the communication of domestic administrations and national administrations of other countries and international organisations. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia use the internet to a significant extent in their daily activities, as well as the entire economy in their business, which shows the fact that the portal of the e-government has in many ways justified its existence, because the statistics we have are speaking unequivocally in favour of it. In administrative procedures, it is significantly easier for citizens to exercise their rights and, unequivocally, to conclude that the advantage of using, the jargon said one click, is both a facilitating circumstance. As it seems in practice, Minister Ruzic explained in his opening statement, and I will not repeat what we already had the opportunity to hear. But services like e-baby, then a system for enrollment of children into preschool institutions and an electronic system for issuing building permits are operational. First of all, Serbia's government's ambition is to replace its former role as a single respected client to Serbian citizens. The level of satisfaction of every citizen provided with a service is the level of success of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which serves its citizens, from this point of view and how high-quality. Some studies even show that increasing the efficiency of the state through the application of modern information technologies can also have a significant impact on GDP growth, as this encourages the creation of an open and dynamic economy that saves both time and money, both citizens and businesses, and the state apparatus itself. Also, problems that were above all inconsistencies with European regulations in this area are overcome, the non-compliance of registers containing the same data, unsupervised data in these registers, the lack of exchange between different systems and the lack of precisely defined data exchange procedures. Of course, we are talking about data concerning registers run by different institutions that have mostly developed solutions from the domains of electronic administration so far. Centralising the electronic system except, as I have already said, overcoming these problems also provides economic empowerment and the rule of law, but also the key to Serbia's EU integration process. The SPS parliamentary group has also tabled several amendments to this bill. Dear Minister, without any intention to challenge the efforts of you and your team, when it comes to making this law, allow us, as your longtime associates, to submit a number of amendments, to try to contribute to some new terms and new modern procedures defined by this law, to make more precise adjustments to use. We will definitely discuss the amendments in more detail in the discussion in detail. Finally, to conclude, the electronic administration significantly increases efficiency, reduce bureaucratic procedures, eliminate corruption and increase transparency in the work of the state administration, and the digitalisation procedure allows both citizens and businesses to save time and money, and these are the main reasons why the SPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of the draft e-government law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30965	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30966	I thank the chairman, given that my colleagues commented a lot on the laws in the textbooks, i.e. the laws that are in the field of education today, I will once again point out that we support Minister Sarčević and support these laws. Compared to these two laws relating to Mr Branko Ruzic's portfolio, as minister, I would like to refer only briefly to the provisions of the law on national geospace data infrastructure. In view of the fact that some opportunistic tones have also been heard today in relation to this law, we must point out some facts that cannot be doubted. The first fact is that there is a discrepancy of the fact that there is a discrepancy with the catastrian state. But I need to draw attention to the fact that this inconsistency with the catastrian state isn't since yesterday and that it can't be mortgaged to this government and this government. The reminders for, as early as 2010, if I'm wrong, maybe someone will correct me, have been adopted a strategy relating to the formation of a national strategy, i.e. the infrastructure of geospace data, and it should have already started to apply. Even the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 passed a single regulation in this direction. Which is why it was not commented at the time and why what is said today as a kind of criticism of what is being done and what is being done by the government really remains a question to those who have made the observation and highlighted it. Inconsistencies with regard to the catastrian state have lasted for two decades. It is true that we do not have in operations of the Immobility Catastrophe Office, nor did we have a catastrophe of underground waterways, or infrastructure elements, that we do not have what relates to the change in the right of entry when it comes to the legal process that prevents the change of enrolment, i.e. the alignment of the effective state with the cadastrian state, given that the legal process is still under way. We have a great burden when we talk about restitution, given that after the end of the restitution proceedings most of the time administrative disputes are initiated, so the Administrative Court decides, so until the Court of Justice makes a decision, then we can't change anything, because the Agency for Restitution is waiting for the ruling of the Administrative Court, and then it's really a conglomerate of circumstances that burden the alignment of the current situation with the Catastrian. So I have to comment that this law represents something very quality. On the one hand, it's a quick change in data exchange through precisely an insight into the state that will be set up by this electronic administration law, because through those technologies that we should have introduced long ago, and now we're introducing them, we're going to raise to one significantly higher level that data exchange, and that's how we're going to influence transparency to an even higher level. In this direction, indeed, the support of Minister Ruzic for one argument he made, and this argument is based on the fact that this law does not prevent the alignment of the current situation with the Catastrian state, that it is coming to us as a kind of obligation and that this greatest burden of responsibility is borne by local self-government, or by cities and municipalities that have been too long, not to say for decades, waiting for the final immobilities that are being conducted as a public property of local self-government to be entered into the services of the building cadasar, i.e. adequate operations. I say this more and more from the point of view of my profession, because through law enforcement I am also dealing with these issues, and then it is logical that some prejudices that exist in the sense of direct application of this law should be removed, because if we remain slaves of prejudice, then no one will understand the essence of these legal changes and these legal changes. In the end, I'd just like to look back on the provisions of the e-Government law in a few sentences. I would ask only through one well-intentioned suggestion that in an even more comprehensive way, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act are considered, given that there is still room for certain changes and additions in order for electronic administration to really be even more efficient, especially in those areas where legal medicines and the possibility of making legal medicines, when it comes to electronic correspondence. Anyway, this is for every commendation, for every support. Minister Ruzic, there is no doubt that you have a good road ahead that you will certainly use, and the SPS and the SPS parliamentary group will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30967	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30968	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, today, I will pay the utmost attention to the proposal for an e-Government law in order to explain the need for the urgency of setting up a user-oriented public administration that will raise the level of quality of provision of services to citizens, businesses, as well as the availability of public services through the simplification of procedures, precisely, the full implementation of electronic administration services in all state authorities, territorial autonomy bodies, local self-government and public services units. In this sense, we are actually proposing a public administration reform. Viewed through the prism of the overall changes in the organisation and functioning of the public administration system, it is actually a reform of the state itself. This public administration reform is one of the most important tasks, because only one effective, only one state capable of providing citizens and economics with the best quality of public services, and with the maximum cost of time, then saving money, so material and human resources, is a country that can this moment, which is the moment of the galloping development of the IT sector, actually use it as a moment for reforming such a strategic framework. The objectives of implementing this eGovernment law are to provide citizens with a higher level of legal certainty, using simpler, more efficient, more accessible and open electronic public services. The full electronic communication of citizens, legal entities and NGOs with the authorities of the administration, as well as the communication of the authority of the administration, is mutually facilitated by the use of electronic signatures of electronic documents, then due to online submission of requests in digital form, electronic payment of taxis, then the issue of electronic time stamps and appointments of service terms. In addition to the financial benefit that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will benefit and, apart from the lack of time spent, material resources, legal interest will actually be able to achieve in a more complete and accessible way in co-operation with the authorities of the administration. It is very important to note only that officials in public administrations and employees will be able to do their job more easily by simplifying procedures through the use of modern information and communication technologies. Since our parliamentary group no longer has time, I support all of the previous debates of our parliamentary group. Of course, I would like to commend this proposal for the e-government bill. The parliamentary group will plead and vote on all these draft laws of this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30969	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30970	Thank you. I am really pleased that MPs and MPs recognize the importance of these two laws, and national infrastructures of geospace data and e-Government laws. I think it is important that both the public and the citizens understand that it is not about the digitisation that Serbia should have resistance to, but about one process, I repeat, not just technical and technological, but also social, which makes life easier for all of us. When I tell all of us, so also citizens and businesses and officials in the administration. That's what it is, in fact, the intensity of both of these laws. I would say that, as you know, the Law on Administrative Procedure is a practical basis and a prerequisite for one such eGovernment law as an infrastructure law to adopt and standardise all those processes and operations that the administration does by exchanging data in electronic form and that is something that is essential for citizens to know. According to the ZUP itself, or the Administrative Procedure Act, officials are obliged, of course, to exchange data and documents. For now, there are six bases, therefore, home books, the MUP bases, the Tax Administration, the PIO Fund, the National Employment Service and the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. This repeats the Republic Geodetic Institute which, in practice, contributes to the total exchange of these data and facilitates all these procedures. So far, 116 units of local self-government, that's what someone here said, that the greatest burden applies to the services that are located in local self-government units, someone here in the afternoon session was saying, sometimes deficit or lack of perpetrators, and that's what we've responded to by forming a National Public Administration Academy. So, we want to rationalise and optimise jobs to make it less, but so far 116 units of local self-government and 12 city municipalities of Belgrade have applied to this eZUP platform. Of course it doesn't look so great and beautiful and pink. I have to say that there are difficulties, that there are some complex situations and we're doing a constant analysis of the situation to improve the practical functioning and find the activities that are needed to function at full capacity. Also, we want to simplify the procedure, somewhere in the middle of last year we abolished and eliminated the unnecessary ones. We've narrowed it down to 188 and that's also very significant. All the jobs, whether trusted or original, that units of local self-government are now clearly defined. As for the central register, it was mentioned here yesterday for the electronic processing and storage of data from the parent books, I said yesterday that 98% of it was already completed and what I would say is an important addition to this story were recently adopted changes and additions to the Law on Citizenship, which allows the database to be completed and data from the citizen's book. What we're planning, certainly in the next period, is to improve our own system of official records. That wouldn't be easy, excuse me without this e-Government bill. This is a practical and normative framework or a normative basis for the whole infrastructure to be regulated in the way needed for those end-users. They're citizens. We want to establish both meters of registers and improve the basic registers, so also the central population register and the immovableity cadastre, the topic that is talked about here on several occasions, although in one separate way, is the law that we are also treating is not exclusively a disaster, and the fact is that the fact is that the actual state does not always correspond to what is found in those registers. The Register of Space Units, which is also very significant and the address, is all practically one complementary job of the entire government, the Republic and the Geodesy Institute, all of us, and I think it's important that we all understand together how much this can facilitate the procedure. In the morning part, I also talked about an e-inspector platform that also makes it much easier for businesses, i.e. business entities and citizens. What's important to know is that in 2011, the perception or perception of inspectors as such in Serbia had a negative 60 per cent connotation, today it's 10%. I'm sure after starting to function that platform, that percentage will be much lower. You must, or all together, first of all make sure that it is the inspectors who take care of what water we drink, what food our children eat in some kindergartens or schools, what air we breathe. I think it's also something that represents one big step forward. It's all something that's lifelike, and so I took the opportunity to relate to these, I would say, very constructive discussions and colleague Paunović Dinić and fellow Jovanovic, so that because of the citizens, first of all, I would point out that digitisation is not a bauk, it's not like that movie, "The gods fell on the subject," when that bottle of coke falls on some native settlement, then that native takes a bottle and throws it up to God and hits him in the head. So it's not digitisation and it's not the fourth industrial revolution. It's important that citizens realize that this really represents one process that has human outlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30971	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30972	Thank you. I have only a few minutes, but I will be inspired by what ended Minister Ruzic, and I will still look back on this law, that is, by electronic administration. It's the law we need. I think it's funny that now he respects anyone as he wants to return, or pretends to be a stone age or a prehistoric. Of course digitization is sort of fate and inevitability. But that doesn't mean that we should go chaoticly and scytheically into it as unfortunately with us for years seems whenever something's in fashion. Now there's digitization in fashion, so all that has in it is then everyone's happy, like these reforms, as is the notion of Europe and it doesn't matter what, patriotism, all the other things, each so say can be, to turn, any good idea when it turns into ideology, and then into a means of manipulation can cause a counter effect. I'd just draw attention to it, the minister said something about it, but I don't think we'll get there when the amendment comes, when it comes to security, data protection and security. That's the problem, and there's problems and there's being, everywhere. I'm just paying attention to that for a little attention. I'd like to draw attention to Articles 12 and 13 where it's about data protection, so there's a megameter register. That sounds, it's only mentioned in one member, that meter register, with extremely undefined powers or at least vaguely and inaccurately formulated. It's kind of like a big brother, or a matrix where all the data of all the citizens is gathering, and then it leaves room for manipulation. It may not be, but as it stands in this Article 13, read all your colleagues, it is not important or painful, it is simply necessary, to say the least, for serious consideration. So the simplest way of serious data protection, and especially that famous meter register, means where all those registers are being collected somewhere and collected, and we have a short article, or member of where it's being talked about. It just doesn't matter if it's going to be arranged later by some supplement or some sublegal act, I'm just drawing attention that it's necessary because citizens, I listed this as a reason, not only in Serbia, I'm not talking about Serbia, there's this increased sensitivity in the world when it comes to the secrecy of data, the data that leaks, here, we had a Facebook scandal the other day and so on. So it's not our specificity, but of course we're additionally sensitive to the past and this totalitarian experience, the system we were surrounded by, in which the good part of us lived. As for the second law, therefore, the Law on textbooks, and at all when it comes to these laws, we did not accidentally put ourselves as if we had not taken a clear view of these laws, not because we are not the opposition, of course we are a strong and harsh opposition, but when the laws come out of this assembly, out of this home, it becomes the laws of the Serbian state. So it's no longer yours, our laws, who suggested, no ministry, no government, no opposition. I have faced cases when citizens approach me and say, here's to this little bit of their parliamentary experience, they say – here you are, now you've passed this law and so on. Then you have to explain, so I didn't adopt, I was against, abstention. Citizens experience us less, whatever we think of it, actually as some body that it is and there they are right, which should be unique or at least about some things unique. So I say we should be of common interest to make these laws better. No one has such infallibility, no minister, no ministry, no position, no opposition. Therefore, I, too, should welcome fellow Stoimirovic's initiative from the morning when he mentioned how both should give in and that these amendments do not serve as a mere controversy, who will take or spend more time on whom than the elements of consensus and compromise are sought, in the end, in order of a common solution, in the sense that this law is better than it is, even if it prevents some possibility of abuse, whatever. A few specific questions regarding the Law on textbooks for Mr. Sarcevic. Namely, my intensity and my dilemma are primarily about the public publisher's position, you won't be surprised, it's the textbooks' office, but it doesn't matter what it's called. Here he is called a public publisher, whose fate is and whose position is very difficult. That's what people in the profession know, while citizens don't care at first sight. But the devil, as much of what this is about and what we're discussing seems to be abstract, and it is, and complicated, often even MPs don't know and they don't know exactly what it is, but, of course, it has very concrete and very tangible consequences when it comes to life. So they don't know what the Bookbook Act says, but they don't know if they pay more expensive or cheaper textbooks. This competition, this openness for anyone to issue textbooks, it works well, acts liberally, seems to encourage competition, but did not result, did not give effect in terms of reducing the price of textbooks, because in fact the package of textbooks is growing year by year. The public publisher, the Bookshop, is in a difficult position. One part is their own fault, because the number of employees in the publisher is growing year by year, and their share in the market is getting smaller and smaller. From the former monopolies who printed all the textbooks, now, you correct me or supplement me if it's not completely accurate, I'm afraid he's now a part of the Book Office in the entire textbook market somewhere around 3%. Anyway, it's one digit. So, a few percent. And they do, according to my records, and you correct me again if I'm wrong, about 300 employees. Great. So, more than 300 employees. (President: You are bringing the end, colleague Vukadinovic. ) At the same time, the international publisher, the one covering every day a growing market, has over two-thirds of the markets, has several dozen employees. Well... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30973	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Time's up. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30974	In short, for the overall public, I have been negotiating and talking with all our bodies for a year and a half, so I think of the Institute. From one great monopolies to the fact that it still means a lot in our system, there is a obligation to rationalize itself, because, with so many people, you know it's inconclusive on the market. The office doesn't function as a good villa that has money from somewhere and solves questions on the ground. It goes from Serbia's budget and those are the minuses. So, this is how we fix the position of the Institute and other publishers, because we have made two important new moments possible, and that is the abolition of the censorship, which has brought them to a bad position, both personal rationalization and different market access, who has better reviewers, these are all domestic auditors, you're better off. On the other hand, what's very important, means all the low-cost textbooks that will be paid by both the state and other publishers, go to them, so we got two jobs, as they say. When we talk about that national world, it remains to be seen what part of it we will be able to implement some recommendation, because if you have a liberal textbook market, as the old law has already regulated, we cannot arbitration. But we've also moved some of these laws. So this is already a state that's according to the old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30975	Let me tell you right now, colleague Vukadinovic, you have no right to a replica so far. The word has a minister, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30976	Thank you. I won't be long, but because of the public and the public's concern which, of course, is legitimate and we know that security is very important. We've seen what happened with both Facebook and Facebook news what can happen when a newspaper is introduced in an unsystemic way, but there's no reason to be afraid because this meter register, there's no personality data in it. Of course, in its preparation, the law also obtained the consent of the trustees. As for the very meter register, it is, first of all, a record of all existing registers and nothing less and nothing more. It serves for one interoperability of these existing registers. As far as security is concerned, there is also the Information Security Act, which treats this issue, and in this law it is mentioned in accordance with the need for this segment to be found in a normative sense and in the very text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30977	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30978	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers with fellow Members, the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party will support these laws in the voting day, because we believe they are of quality and are one step ahead in our legislation. Since I'm limited by the time of the discussion, I'll try to be as specific as possible. During yesterday's and today's debates, we could hear a number of different objections and criticisms from the opposition, which we are already used to, as we are used to, that none of these remarks or criticisms contain any concrete objection to the content or text of the proposed laws, but literally none. It was in those discussions, we can say, anything and everything, but most empty stories and populism. So we had a chance to hear from one MP that digitization was not necessary, that she was actually fashion and I really believe him. He's a man who's been following fashion for the past few years, so when the fashion trend was a change of nationality he changed his nation and thus entered the National Assembly. When it was a trend to conduct a public opinion survey, he contracted with Serbia's state lottery and conducted a public opinion survey for two million and 400,000 dinars. Just imagine, for those two million and 400,000 dinars, they could have received pills when digitising and introducing digital textbooks to buy pills for an entire primary school, that all children in one primary school in Serbia could get pills instead of putting that money in their pocket. But he's not the only one. We had a chance here to listen to a man who owed his municipality over 4 billion dinars and who today told us that some parents had no money to give to their children for lunch and bus tickets, but didn't say that your parents didn't have the money for what his yellow cartel and parents had on robbery privatisation, without any right to throw out on the street and left those parents out of work, leaving their parents in a position not to give their child for basic needs. I am bringing this to an end, and that is why we are in a situation where, as the Minister said in 2000, the digitisation of teaching was introduced, and we are introducing robbery privatisation, kidnapping and desolation of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30979	Comrade Vukadinović, on what basis do you seek the right to the replica? What part did you identify yourself in? That you changed the nation, that you took from the state lottery money, that's why you knew each other? I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30980	No, no, let me. Let's be realistic. It has long been used to discuss the law, which has nothing to do with the law, nor with the amendments, actually uses that time to disqualify political opponents. If someone is, and I've followed about 90% of this debate, everyone on this side has been speaking constructively about the law, and the Ministers have to accept it. They made some remarks, they said something, something was founded, something was answered, etc. I just don't think it's right, dear colleagues, and we can call on the Rules of Procedure, but I don't want to call on the Rules of Procedure, I think it's much better to give a replica and argue in this form of replica, to clear up some things, than to, by alluding, by saying, making absolute untruths and constantly trying to disqualify someone on some side. We could wave, or we could wave, in exact copies. So I'm looking for a replica, and I explained why.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30981	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30982	Why didn't you intervene when your colleague talked about something that had nothing to do with the agenda or the law on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30983	It's not up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30984	And you are?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30985	Right now I am. Look at the Rules of Procedure a little bit. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30986	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, I am advertising Article 104 regarding Article 107. Article 104 regulates replicas, and Article 107 regulates dignity. There's been both injuries here. The gentleman who spoke before me, and I appreciate that you positively discriminated against national minorities, so I appreciate your behaviour towards national minorities, specifically against the Vlach's national minority, but the gentleman before me carried out the replica without your approval. So nothing was caused by the speaker talking about gambling before him and talking about changing the nation, and because of the dignity of this National Assembly, he was supposed to say the thing with Jo, by, whether he changed the nations or whether he was playing lucky or not, and he got 2,400,000 from "Lutrija Serbia". Just to remind myself that, in their time, the Lutria was at a disadvantage because of such fortunate winners. Since he had won the replica, he needed to answer whether he had changed the nation and had received from “Lutria” 2,400,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30987	My colleague Risticevic, I must tell you that my colleague Vukadinovic did not get the right to reply. I asked him on what basis he was looking for, and I wanted him to answer me, nothing more. Whether I'm conducting a positive discrimination against national minorities, or even members of the weeds of the national minority, I can tell you that everyone has the right to declare themselves whatever they want and that's his right, but since I grew up among the members of the national minority, I don't notice that he has the qualities that are characteristic of them. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? No, I don't. On what basis are you answering, Mr. Vukadinovic? (Jorge Vukadinovic: I've just been mentioned. You're not at any time, there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Djordje Vukadinović: How could I not? It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Even if you were mentioned, you wouldn't have the right to a replica. (Jorge Vukadinovic: You mentioned me. ) I gave an explanation to my colleague Rističević. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Then I advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure.) ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30988	Thank you. Article 107(2) So, Mr. Chairman, you and I both know what this is all about. I do not like, as I said, to pursue this truth of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I have always appealed that it is better to give more opportunities for replication than to abuse the Rules of Procedure, but this time has been broken Rules of Procedure by more points, because there are obvious and harsh untruths which are simply, offensive and disincentive, but since it is seen and people are passing it on and then it is interesting, I simply have to say, for the public's sake, that I have neither changed nationality nor participated in any games of happiness, but I have only been involved in the business that I do, more or less successfully, more successful than others. It would be beneath me to now draw the data, though it's listed here, what some here have received and by what basis, various means. I expect that there are some authorities and institutions that should do their jobs and if there is an abuse to talk about and then that's how it is discussed. This is one humiliation of parliament, which knowingly, deliberately devalues one piece or one number of MPs, not all of which, of course, is the ruling majority, and it damages this entire institution, and when we're about changing nationality or something, so I am what I am -- a Serb, no better, no worse. I've never presented myself differently, but of course you can support different political options in that capacity and I've never abused nor the law, nor your own national definition in particular. If someone has changed their religious and national commitment, it is the president of a large ruling party that has become a Protestant from Orthodox to constantly quote Marks Marks Weber and has become German from Serbs, and some even say Albanian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30989	Comrade Vukadinovic, I give you a warning. It is your right to be on the list of the weeds of the national minority. I don't argue with you, you wanted to protect them, you didn't believe anything, you didn't win enough votes, you didn't even get the natural threshold to skip. A colleague, Marijan Rističević, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30990	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, I am advocating Article 103. Remember well - Article 103, because it has not been advertised so far. I will insist on Article 103, in particular on Article 8, if the group has time to take away from them at all, Article 103 says it cannot be pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure already stated. Given that I pointed to article 107 before him, my colleague had no right to show injury to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 107, but he also spoke of manners, etc., which again occurred in violation of dignity. Sam hurt the member he pointed to. He did not answer whether he was on the list of the Vlach national minority and whether he received 2,400,000 dinars from Serbia's lottery or not. So, with that in mind, I'm not asking you to vote on it, but it would be good if your colleague wasn't talking about the manners of this, that, etc., how we deceive the Assembly, but simply to answer whether he got 2,400,000 dinars from the lottery or not, whether the lottery was down or not for their time and whether he was on the list of national minorities, and in that sense I'm not going to ask you to take away that time of two minutes. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30991	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Since there were obvious abuses in part two of the explanation of the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure, a warning was made to counterpart Vukadinovic. My colleague Komlenski has the word. (Jorge Komlenski: I gave up my word.) You gave a warning to a colleague. ) (Gjorge Vukadinovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. So, you don't have the right to replicate to advertising the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs to allow me to continue to hold the session. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30992	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, I will first discuss the National Qualifications Framework Act. Many times in this congregation, I asked a question, and it was about a cipher, or nonexistent profession. I'm interested, Minister, in whether this National Qualifications Framework Act will address this issue, because it's even known that we have about 140 non-existent professions, which our students at state and private colleges are trained to do. The list of professions, on the other hand, does not identify 79 educational profiles that are educated at universities in the Republic of Serbia? Among these non-existent professions and educational profiles are graduated hotel manager, professional dentist, graduate electrical engineering and computer engineering engineer, graduate sports manager, graduate politician of European integration, primary academic studies of healthcare, etc. The Higher Education Act, adopted in 2005, was adopted primarily because of this and the Bologna education system, but until today it is not corrected. However, I am interested in whether this new law on the National Qualifications Framework will correct this injustice against those students who are regularly, on the budget or already studying at our national and private colleges? The second law I want to talk about, I might want to commend that law, because since 2008 I have been a member of parliament who, I say, fought a fight over the different status of low-level textbooks. Never before has there been any movement or goodwill until your changes to make something right. I have the impression that some of our amendments that we have made since 2015 have been in these amendments to that basic law since 2015, as if all the amendments that have been made by at least the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina were adopted. We are at these times when we have been giving all these amendments and national councils, because numerous national councils, or national minorities, at least in the territory of the AP Vojvodina have education for 270 years in their languages of national minorities, so that these are some acquired rights to education in minority languages, but there was a problem with publishing textbooks. This did not happen as long as there was the Institute for the Publishing of textbooks in the AP Vojvodina, that is, in Novi Sad, because there were lecturers, professional services for all languages of national minorities, but when the 1990s were abolished, moved to Belgrade, when the Institute for the Publishing of textbooks came into existence and when it was centralized, simply, textbooks in the languages of national minorities had a problem. I think this law is really going to improve all that, because you've introduced both the Fund and the Book Centre. I don't think there's gonna be any problem with that anymore, because in some ways you've had consultations with the national council's coordination, and that's the right opportunity to somehow connect the state, you and the ministry and national councils. I only saw that in your case. I haven't seen any national advice about having as much good communication as they have with you or the Ministry of Education. I want this law to be applied in practice. I think everyone for that, and national advice and you, so that there will be no more of these problems. What I'd still be talking about is the e-Government Act. I ask, behold, Minister Ruži will see you after the elections for national councils – will the state authorities, will they be connected, since the parent services now are not connected to the special electoral list? It's a simple problem with a unique list. You know who died, who got married, who changed his last name, etc. A special polling list doesn't follow the matriarch and doesn't follow the police. Simply, people don't know, officials who work in municipalities, who are in charge of a unique and special voter list, don't know who died and what happens to people in that four-year cycle between elections. People also have a problem with their residence, because if they have already entered the polling list they think they should no longer be listed if they changed their address. Simply, in the previous elections, four years ago, they were prevented from voting because, for example, in the Tower, they entered a special polling list, in the meantime they changed their residence and entered Novi Sad, so they think they should vote in Novi Sad, but they should have been written out of a special polling list and re-entered the special polling list in Novi Sad. I'm interested in whether until the election, and in half a year's time, most likely in the fall, the ministry will take action to somehow help national minorities enroll in the voter lists? Not everyone knows that. I think you should take that action and connect those special ballots through that e-government to the police and the parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30993	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30994	Of course we have consulted all major national minorities and of course we have consulted all minority groups that have problems using textbooks, custom textbooks, all publishers, parents. Indeed, this is one broad consensus. If anything should have been done, at least for what you're talking about, there are a lot of other valid reasons for this law. What you have noticed is that we have this problem with some kind of interest that is already out of the system and there will be more and more, which again points to the need for a professional agency to deal with and be tied up by several ministries, because the sectoral council, which will now exist, with economy and education, create a policy of new professions, and standards and qualifications are the basis for drawing up new plans and programmes for medium and high. So the whole story got full sense this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30995	Thank you. The word has Minister Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30996	Thank you. I think the question is really in place. What we have managed to put into order is a unique electoral list and on the basis of the electoral right that, of course, those who are in a special polling list as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what we can do is to update the special polling list in the right way. This second question of yours – whether the ministry has certain activities, I would call even promotional activities, to simply point to legal opportunities for members of national minorities to have the right and in what way to enroll in a special voter list. That's one thing. The other thing is two legislative proposals that, before these elections for national councils of national minorities, hopefully will be adopted here in this home. This whole year there's this dimension in that one segment, and I can only express my belief that we'll do anything to keep the special voter list up to date. How are we going to do that, are we going to wait for the Central Population Register to be one of the models or tools to introduce it, or are we going to estimate that it takes a lot more time and will not practically time-constraint with needs and timing, we are going to do it at the level of the ministry in the sector that deals with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30997	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. He's not here. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30998	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, today I will talk about the draft law on national geospace data infrastructure. The passing of this law preceded a decade-long process of establishing national geospace data infrastructure. Only the adoption of the draft law is about rounding up the overall process of implementing the EU directive. The State Prime Minister and Cataster Act, then the Strategy on the establishment of spatial data infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia established conditions for the adoption of this law which is a natural continuation and necessity for further modernisation and standardisation in this area. National geospace data infrastructure is an integrated system of geospace data that enables different users to identify and access spatial information at local, national and global level. Today, when it is on the agenda and the Law on Electronic Administration, I must point out that the Bill on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data is in line with the standards of the E-Government. The information shall be exchanged effectively under this system, without further duplication of work and with small administrative costs. By applying this framework, Serbia becomes part of an international network of geoinformation. In addition to co-operation on the international agenda, the adoption of the bill is necessary for the purpose of progress under Chapter 27 relating to the protection of the environment. What citizens will feel directly through the adoption of this law is the reduction of procedures in the process of recording assets, the reduction of the costs of the same procedure and, ultimately, the reduction of the duration of the bookmaking process by more than four times, from 21 to the world for five days. This law provides for information to be collected once, and at a level where it can be done most efficiently, and from that level information will be available to different entities, in a way that is easy to understand. Also, such processed data will be standardised and harmonised at national level. The adoption of this law will educate the authorities necessary for the functioning of the national geospace data infrastructure, which is advice and working groups. The most significant management body is a council composed of representatives of the various professions relevant to this area. I call on my colleagues to support the adoption of the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u30999	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31000	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and Associates, I will use my exposure to speak exclusively of the Bookbooks Act. The impression I had on the basis of talks with my former colleagues, given that I had previously worked as an educational worker, that in Serbia no one is seriously involved in education. Education is not primarily for politicians, nor for parents, not everyone deals with it on the way. So we have a situation where teachers are dissatisfied, students are also unhappy, and when you have a system that is so full of dissatisfaction, it's hard to give birth to anything positive. Our school programs are out of date and they have to seriously comb. It is clear that the Serbian education system needs one fundamental reform that the authorities have promised us decades ago. Our school programs do not follow European trends, and so are textbooks. School working conditions are bad, students do not have enough computers, we can only dream about cabinet classes, and individual teachers work exactly as they have done over the past 20 years. Our education is accompanied by many infamous, actually devastating statistics. Serbia is the first in Europe to be functionally illiterate. In fact, more than a million people in Serbia have not completed primary school. Another devastating statistic is that we're second in the world by the number of brain drains. And a few causes of this devastating statistic, all generality is certainly one of the most significant. And the best anti-poverty program is education. With that in mind, I welcome the solutions made in this law. Namely, it is proposed to provide funding for children's textbooks from the most sensitive social groups and I see this policy as a step forward in ensuring the Constitution of a guaranteed right to free elementary and secondary education, which is among other things in accordance with Article 28. The Convention on the Rights of the Child. I also welcome another of the key newspapers in this law, it is that textbooks will be able to be digital and this solution as the minister announced yesterday and will certainly enable cheaper, fairer and accessible education, and I believe that textbooks will be more interesting and functional and should certainly affect their knowledge and skills. Unfortunately, the basis for further learning will certainly be paper textbooks and that is what we will encounter in reality. However, the MP group Enough is believed that the state is obliged to its children, therefore also to its founding members, but also to provide the high school students with free textbooks for use at no cost to parents, just as their peers in the diaspora, in most EU countries, as well as in Canada and in America. Let us remind ourselves that education is the right of a child, not the right of a parent to educate a child, but the right of a child to take schools regardless of the material condition of a parent. What is the physical state of parents in Serbia? The average income in our country is only 57,000 dinars. It's the whole family's monthly income. It is clear from this what the cost of buying textbooks is especially if families have one, two, or more children, taking into account textbooks or sets cost from 10 to 15 thousand dinars. Among other basics for the implementation of free textbooks lies the Constitution and the obligation of free schooling. The state imposes on parents the obligation to educate a child, otherwise criminal responsibility is foreseen. A difficult material and economic situation requires helping parents who do not have enough resources to train their children and buy textbooks. I will refer to the assessment of the risk of corruption in the provisions of this law. In fact, one of the main problems in the process of approving and selecting textbooks in schools is that the law did not adequately address the issue of financing the purchase of textbooks from the Republic budget funds. Unfortunately, the bill does not make the necessary improvements with regard to conflicts of interest and choice and follow-up of textbooks, and the decision-making criteria. In particular, the proposed solutions concerning the management of conflicts of interest are based on the signatures of the person’s statements on the absence of conflicts of interest rather than on the legal provisions of the procedure as well as the appropriate sanctions in the event of the establishment. On the other hand, the bill, as well as the applicable, does not contain clear enough criteria to be used when deciding on the choice of textbooks, nor does it edit the procedure itself by selecting them, leaving room for different interpretations and possible abuses. In view of earlier examples of abuse in the selection of textbooks, significant in this bill, similar to the applicable law, it is forbidden for publishers to make donations, gifts or representations to preschools, schools or unemployed in those institutions. However, the draft law does not specify more precisely what is considered a gift, donation or representation while the specific programme represents a fact unlike the applicable laws, there is no closer definition of the presentation of textbooks and small-value representations allowed according to the proposed solution. During yesterday's presentation, the minister pointed out by explaining the law that the quality of his textbooks is terribly valid. The bill as well as the applicable does not pay enough attention to monitoring the quality of textbooks. In fact, the bill contains only one general provision dealing with this issue, from which it is not fully clear how the way and the quality of the textbooks will be followed. Otherwise, we believe that removing these identified shortcomings and the risk of corruption would help overcome the problems that have arisen so far in practice. What does it matter if these problems are solved? One of the answers is the fact that Serbia's textbook market is worth almost 100m euros. Experts have calculated that publishing textbooks is a very lucrative job, and therefore we should not be surprised at why everyone is looking for their own piece of cake. The bill looks like this - in Serbia we have 650 thousand students in primary schools and if a set of textbooks costs 100 euros, it is a 65m-euro market. When we add to this the costs of high school students' textbooks, we come up with this fantastic figure of 100m euros, and in Serbia, we remind, we currently have more than 25 publishers of private textbooks besides the state. It is clear that there are much larger editions of textbooks in elementary school. That's why both textbook writers and publishers are more interested in the area. In the area of secondary and professional education, however, there are many educational profiles and circulations are much smaller, so we have textbooks that are a few decades old and publishers do not see any economic interest in publishing new circulations. In view of this figure, it is clear that the publishing of textbooks is one of the very rare profitable jobs in the area of education and it is doubtless that this has led to such a large number of publishers, especially when there are no clear regulations and requirements. Almost everyone's printing textbooks for the lower classes of the school's basics. One of the reasons is the number of the circulation. In the generation, we have about 70,000 students, and the second is that publishers seem to find it much easier to do textbooks by running the system – the smaller children, the less knowledge. Otherwise, this is a big and dangerous scam, because the lower age for which the textbook is made, the greater knowledge and expertise are needed, as well as the greater psychological knowledge, i.e. knowledge of the intellectual powers of children at a certain age, their capacities, as well as the ways in which children learn. What kind of textbooks do our children learn from? Although the pedagogues claim that seven-year-olds can't understand a sentence longer than seven words, we had a case that in one textbook, I won't name a coma, there's a sentence of even 56 words. Otherwise, experts and psychologists warn that any book that has more than 50 pages can scare a child, that it is a problem for first - grade students, and otherwise most first - grade textbooks have just over 75 pages. Furthermore, my colleagues, experts and psychologists have been working on the analysis of textbooks and have concluded that most of our textbooks are not good. The problem is that they only change randomly without a clear awareness of what they really want to achieve and it's noticeable that more changes are just the appearance of textbooks, than its essence and school books can still find prejudices and stereotypes, which is unacceptable, and since one generation has 70,000 students, it's clear that one stupidity printed 70,000 times is actually multiplied so many times. Our textbooks have numerous shortcomings, which the minister is certainly aware of. As the first language in which they are written, they are not adjusted to age. First of all, we think about the length of the sentence, the archaisms, the aliens and the professional terms that are not immediately explained, and they just confuse the children. There is no connection between expertise and school and life experiences that children have. The contents are not exposed in such a way as to give the child the opportunity to work independently. Questions and assignments in textbooks are sometimes completely pointless. It happened that children are learning history from textbooks that are rich in stereotypes and inappropriate content about neighbouring countries or about minorities in Serbia. For example, high school students are educated from the textbook “Psychology” where they say, quote – from a person who is mentally retarded, from an idiot, it is not possible to create an intelligent person in the best conditions. It also says in the same textbook that autism is when a person retreats to the world of imagination. Serious problems are also sentences, lessons overcrowded with unknown words, and educators often point out that specifically "Mathematics" textbooks, manuals are rich in terrible material errors and shortcomings. Various illogicalities and nonsense are reportedly understood, and some of them have already slipped through the media, like this one – says in the textbooks that the forest is dense, impenetrable forest in which lions live. It wouldn't be any dispute here if the lions didn't live in the savannahs. Another example is an explanation of the concept – villa. It's said the fairy is a mythic creature. We have a problem here that one unknown term is explained by another unknown term, so it's absolutely not clear to children what they really need to learn and what their books are about. However, this is not the end of the pearls. Geography for the seventh grade brings the next pearl, so it says Asia is showersd by four oceans, but Asia is clapped by only three oceans, Indian, North Ice and Pacific. So, the mistake is obvious here. From textbooks like this, dear ministers and associates teach our children. In the end, we go back to the essence of the Bookbooks Act. The bill points out that the textbook serves to acquire knowledge, skills, form attitudes, foster critical opinions, improve functional knowledge and develop intellectual and emotional characteristics of students. In this regard, what kind of textbooks we need and how they should be in order to achieve this goal and to really follow the currents of science, as it is also stated in the provisions of the law. These people have to work on their textbooks. Science will give it content, someone else will adjust it to age, and the third person has it all graphically processed. It's hardly one man can do all that today, and that's exactly what's happening in our circumstances. The narrative exposure is the weakest link of today's textbooks. Usually, only tax data are given in lessons, which burdens students. However, when all this is wrapped up in a drinking story, it is much easier to remember. There's no material that can't be packed, it can't adapt to narrative style. Lessons should be adapted to be stories, which will awaken children's imagination, and historical personalities must come to life to get closer to children. Only in this way can their curiosity awaken. For decades, textbooks have been abound with drying texts, and they could be modernised by collages, comics, or cartoons, as this encourages logical and critical thinking. The textbooks are, by the way, the most rational way of raising the quality of education in the country, and thus are an extremely important national issue. With regard to the quality of the textbooks, Finland went the farthest way, to which Serbia should be seen, when it comes to a complete education system. That, among other things, was discussed during last year when we also had a set of education laws on the agenda. Serbia should, in fact, focus on the Finnish model we talked about last year. First, there must be a general policy of publishing textbooks, and raising the quality of textbooks cannot be achieved through competition or market. This is, however, only possible in rich countries where there is a developed market, and the printing of textbooks can be left to market mechanisms. That in Serbia, unfortunately, can't. We are a small and poor country, which strives to be democratic and in practice implement the principle of quality education for all. In order for all of this to be done, solutions that will achieve the quality of textbooks must be carefully chosen while at the same time being guided on the social aspect. Here we come again to our story of free textbooks and how important it is to finally introduce free textbooks into our education system. Also, I'm going to be back here in Finland, because they have education for free literally for all students, at all levels of education, and more than obvious that the state is investing a lot in education, but that all this effort is worth a lot, because Finland is one, not just one of the most developed countries in Europe, but among other things, in the whole world. And what's one fact the Finns can be proud of is that they don't recognize the notion of brain drains. Otherwise, the good fluid that can also be applied to Serbia's educated system is, in fact, their philosophy is based on the belief that everyone can contribute to some knowledge or skills, and the development of the same is done throughout the schooling process. What are their children doing? In order to constantly work to improve the education system every seven weeks, students across the country assess their education and state what they consider to be good and what they consider to be bad practice and what should be improved or amended. In this way, the education system goes through regular control and some kind of self-evaluation. To conclude, I welcome the positive changes made by this law and I point out that a good school textbook is the best way to improve the quality of education in general, but, judging by complaints about the quality of textbooks that come from educators, students and their parents, Serbia is still far from quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31001	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31002	There are a lot of topics here that have been touched, but I don't think they're all set up right in some algorithm. Simply, there are textbook authors, these are people who have a name, a name, a pydgre and integrity, I hope. I'm not going to talk back and forth to my authors, who are probably already dead, but we're going to talk about some new page about how we're going to try to do it. Among other things, in Serbia, I can't embellish either the reviewers or the authors, but we can lead to something that you as a psychologist should know best, and that all quality goes through learning, that we can do it through the system, and that's where we're the most protected of all. I really wouldn't bid, because I heard yesterday, today, that the textbook market is worth 40, 50, so now 100 million euros, it really doesn't know, but it's huge differences. It just doesn't work. Monitoring the quality of textbooks will take place on a number of basiss, external evaluation of schools, external evaluation, test centres, models through a large graduation, independent and small will give certain, other types of results. I mentioned that we were designing a system to return exactly psychologists, educators and other professional associates to higher capacity in schools. They will deal with career leadership of students, their portfolios and all other miracles. Again, the textbook is an accompanying phenomenon here. The choice of textbooks, not to be corrupt, is small money for someone to be bribed so that no one knows, that he would have a constantly lower salary, it just doesn't pay him. I think that economic factor is very important in this. You're wrong about models of what corruption is and what makes someone who would do it. A clear member of the 36th publisher is forbidden to do, and a preschool institution, a school and an employee to receive every donation, even a small one. Gift or representation, learning in an indirect and direct manner in any amount or form. So it's perfectly clear, even minimally forbidden. The donation, gift or presentation referred to in Article 2 shall not be considered as a textbook only. So that's that sample and that's okay. So if I didn't do the math now, same as the number of students, we've heard here that it's falling, at 650 going to 800, that's probably statistics some bad and data. I have to be a geographer to defend some textbook author that you disagree with, Asia goes out into four oceans, because the southwest part of Asia, where Turkey, Israel, is Asia. They're going out to the Mediterranean Sea that belongs to the Atlantic Ocean.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31003	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31004	I am not often able to talk about the laws in principle, so today I am particularly pleased that these are the laws of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, because I am a member of the Assembly Committee on Education. This ministry only last year passed very important laws that involved not only the knowledge and experience of Minister Sarčević, but also the whole team of people around him, who consulted relevant institutions before each law was passed, respected the opinion and suggestions of the general public, organised debates and public hearings. This shows that they approached the studio every time, knowing that there are very serious things, such as education and the education of the entire nation, not only children, but adults, because we live in the 21st century and the circumstances are such that we get to school our whole lives. I can say that education and education is the foundation of every society, we all know that, but they are also the cornerstone of generations to come. It is not surprising that Serbia is among countries that could become world education superstars on the official World Economic Forum site in Davos. For example, the University of Belgrade has made progress on the Shanghai List, has increased number of students, there are several published scientific papers, but GDP growth in Serbia is also reflected in employee standards. We're one of the few countries that doesn't have a national qualification framework, and now it's the first time that so-called. The NOX or the National Qualifications Framework Act in Serbia, which regulates the field of qualifications with the labour market. They're all confused by a lot of professional, academic and scientific titles, and there's no connection to the profession, and what can be done specifically after a diploma has been acquired? This Nox solves it. This NOX covers all levels and qualifications regardless of how they are acquired and independent from the age of life in which qualifications are acquired, because the national qualification framework in Serbia is the basis for applying the concept of lifelong learning, which we have heard more than once from the minister. The Ministry of Education formed a working group consisting of six ministries, of 20 institutions, where both citizens and employers will be presented through the register what NOX brings new. This law is equally important for both the academic community and employers. The National Qualifications Framework clearly defines which skills and skills after acquired education must be owned by an individual and what kind of work he can do after completing his education. The National Anti-Corruption Strategy of the Republic of Serbia from 2013 to 2018 includes the adoption of rules that control educational inspection, as the risks to corruption are highest due to lack of transparency of rules within educational institutions. Accordingly, this Law on Educational Inspection, which applies largely to the rules of conduct. Also, the Anti-Corruption Agency recommended that it be necessary to pass a special law on educational inspection, which is respected this time, and one reason is the need to reduce the impact of local self-government on inspectors. Educational inspectors have a wide range of diapazon functions whose ultimate goal is to consistently respect the law, because even the best laws if not applied are useless. That's why a real single inspectorate is being used to better control. Most of the problems are covered up in schools, until they escalate so much and come to the headlines of the printed media. This ministry, like everything it does, is worth and responsible for doing everything in its power to eliminate the causes, not the consequences. As a third, the law on textbooks has been very important and so far have been too short for the alignment of textbooks and curricula. Since the textbook market has been open to private publishers, eight education ministers have changed, but Minister Sarcevic met with the most important educational publishers at the beginning of his term and met with problems and suggestions. Standards of the quality of textbooks have been established, which is the most important thing here. At the beginning of his term, the minister said – I will work to improve the quality of education and improve the efficiency of the process. It is consistent with the promised and results are seen through the introduction of dual and entrepreneurial education, then the development of the IT sector in Serbia and the improvement of the competitiveness of science, research, innovation in the function of economic development. We've heard a lot of criticism on the Ministry's account, completely without any grounds. In the end, I'd say next. Many people experience brutal pleasure in condemning and attacking those who are more successful than they are. That means you've achieved something and you're worthy of attention, because criticism is often just the sight of a cloaked compliment. I also want you to be as worthy and successful as you are so far and a lot of happiness and success in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31005	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31006	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, are today ahead of us several laws that represent the continuation of the reform we started in the autumn of 2017, including the reform of the state administration and also concerns very brave reforms of education in Serbia, i.e. the reform of education. If we look at the law on electronic administration, we can say that it is a very comprehensive law that we pass after a year and a half and after consulting all relevant factors for the adoption of this law. We cannot say that so far there have been no regulations concerning electronic administrations, but we have witnessed that certain local self-governments have different interpretations of these regulations that exist, as well as individual bodies or organisations, in accordance with their own understandings of these regulations, or in accordance with their knowledge, thus interpreting and applying existing electronic regulations. So it was necessary to pass this law, first of all, to even the practice in all local self-governments and in bodies and organisations. The main objective of adopting this law is standardisation, openness, transparency and, above all, better communication between both state authorities and between themselves, between state authorities and parties, or natural and legal persons in Serbia. The goal is to reduce the number of waits on the counters, the goal is to reduce the time spent in communication with the state administration, as well as the money. From what I've heard, local self-government has been trained to apply this law, as well as to the city of Kikindi, where I come from. The employees of the city administration are very looking forward to the full application of this law, above all to facilitate their communication with the parties that are coming to them, and it will also certainly be much easier for any party when in a faster and more efficient way the party can change their personal documents, when the entry of a child into kindergarten does not take out so many papers, it should not wait for so many tents. What always makes me particularly happy is when I see that there are laws on the agenda that change education in Serbia. Today there are three such laws ahead of us. I especially look forward to every change in this area because I think education, i.e. education, education, life, because we've all been through a certain system of education and we want some better and smarter to come after us, and to get better and smarter, they have to go through a much better education system than the one we've been going through. As for the Law on Educational Inspection, I am pleased to finally have the uniformly regulated conduct of an educational inspection, and what has particularly fallen into my eye and what I want to commend is to increase the number of preventive measures and the advisory role of an educational inspection. I think it should primarily be a task not only of educational inspection, but of every inspection in Serbia. As for the law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia, another proof that in the context of education reform we link the world of education and the labour market, which is also to be commended, more effort needs to be put into our investment, even more money. Once again, I commend all these reforms and, of course, I will support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31007	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not here. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31008	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, I'd like to say something first about the e-Government law. I think the desire for public administration to serve citizens is tens of years old, and this government has begun to realize it. So, so far, it's just a wish. This law is modern, reform and professional, and that is why many people do not understand it. However, by forming an electronic administration office and for IT and bringing in an expert team, we have taken such steps as to think that no one has said that our office has received a prize, the International Telecommunications Union has awarded a prize to our office, and that is the United Nations body. In particular, I would point out that the electronic administration in the future should allow citizens to pay their bills and their obligations to the state from the chair. We're not even aware of what it is to save, not to the citizens, not to the economy, but to the budget at all, for the whole state. By paying bills through banks, through commissions, the huge outflow of our funds is through these foreign banks. The greatest evil that has been done to us since 2000 is not destroying the police and not destroying the army. The greatest evil was done when the SDK was destroyed. The moment the SDK, a single payment system, was destroyed, conditions were created to do what was done to rob this country completely. So we're slowly rebuilding the army, buying new tanks, planes, etc., rebuilding and the police, we're returning some things, but SDK in the function in which it was until 2000, we'll never return it. If the SDK had functioned, it would not have been possible for those robberies that were made after 2000, it would have been true that individuals and mistakes were made in this regard. So that open data market, that's worth about 40 billion euros a year. Those open data, they're said to be 21st-century oil in the world. We are, as far as I am aware, because at the head of this office is Dr. Mihajlo Jovanovic, the merit of the current prime minister and yours is great, but also his, so we have managed to open, as far as I know, 23 institutions and open around 250 files. That's what all these jobs we do today are worth. It's a fully elaborated system so that there's no abuse to update the data, so that the data is accurate. It's very important that these electronic data regarding the individual be accurate. Why? Because based on this data, every citizen's rights are exercised. This is a great responsibility for those who fill and give these data and those who use that data. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say something about education now, since I've spent a lot of years in education. I don't think we can make a textbook that'll be modern and fit science for more than a year. Because science is always progressing. So, science is ahead and behind are curriculas and programs and textbooks. Now we have to answer the question – for whom do we print textbooks? For students, for teachers or for the relationship between teachers and students? What is the goal of education and education? Should we fill the student, like a barrel, the data he's gonna pull when he shows up tomorrow in his life and starts solving problems? No, I don't. We need to train the student to know a hundred known facts and data come up with 101 unknown data. It means that I've mastered the obstacle, that I solve the problem myself. That is why it is very important to train and have such a textbook that the student can use it himself. Only a student capable of making individual progress can do that. Individual progress should be made possible and this is the ultimate goal of our education. When we talk about these prices, corruption, etc., what you've done, it ensures that corruption can't be if the acquisition of textbooks and the entire necessary learning material, the accompanying one, goes through student cooperatives. What you say – savings will be up to 30%. The textbooks can certainly be at least cheaper by 15%. On the other hand, 5 to 6% of the poorest students in each school can receive free textbooks through these student cooperatives. I think that a student association as an association and students, because they are members of a student cooperative, that we understand each other, both teachers and directors and administrative staff, will help to also dual teaching, which I was talking about, easier, more effective and more efficient, if it is in the function of the teaching and education process. I mean, Minister, since I've been in education for many years, you're doing the right thing. So you're solving real and concrete problems. Keep going that way and the better will come. I'm saying -- that this country wasn't robbed in 2000, I'm going back to it, watch out, one day it's going to be written in some textbook, and I'm telling you the last time I repeat today -- the biggest robbery and genocide is that the SDK was destroyed. The SDK was also a cause and reason, i.e. made it possible, that destruction allowed the state to be robbed. And the state was robbed. Those who took part in this, they should not talk about it at all today. But one day, we're sure to get to that position of economic development, if we continue at this rate and at this rate, that all students get free textbooks. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31009	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here, you have another minute and 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31010	Thank you. I was pleased that the National Qualifications Framework Act provides for the validation of informal and informational knowledge. I have a question – will the process of recognising foreign educational degrees, diploma, also recognise the foreign validation of informal and information knowledge, because I do not understand it from the law itself. For example, we have a situation that in the countries of the European Union, in particular in Great Britain, I know for sure, someone who hasn't completed their basic studies, but who worked for 10-15 years, was a leader and achieved himself in his field and proved that he was able to function at an academic level, passed this very simple validation system, and could then enroll master studies. Are we going to admit such master's degrees to someone who doesn't have a basic study? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31011	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31012	If we said we're coordinating, we certainly have to do it and it's a civilization shift. When we did the Law on Higher Education, remember that we have installed who can do anything on academic and vocational studies, where it is no longer a condition that doctoral certification but competences. You have examples in the world of drastically good that people who have the Nobel Prize don't have PhDs run by companies and universities and rectors. So now it's the first time we've ever admitted to calling through this, not just paper and chasing down some grades and formalities. Yeah, we're changing the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31013	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31014	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, my presentation today will refer to the Law on textbooks. Modern school and modern education that train an individual to actively participate in a knowledge-based society cannot be imagined without quality textbooks as a significant factor in cognitive student development, and thus the Law on textbooks should also be a measure to ensure the quality of textbooks. It should also be a tool to reduce inequality in education as well as to support the inclusion of all children in education, increase the availability of education for each child and simultaneously create conditions for quality education in line with the needs and abilities of the child. The aim of adopting such a law is certainly to reduce the risk of corruption in the process of selecting textbooks, as well as to ensure the availability of missing textbooks for all categories of students. The general principles of the Law on the founding of education and education systems are prescribed that the education and education system must ensure for all children equality and availability of the right to education, as well as the rights to education and education based on social justice and the principle of equal opportunities without discrimination. The government's education policy is aimed at increasing the quality and justice of education. The new Law on textbooks takes special care of the material, social dimension of users of free textbooks, as well as of the equal availability and provision of missing textbooks for all students in the management of low-priced textbooks institutes and the establishment of a low-tired textbooks centre aimed at social inclusion and an educational system that adapts to the diversity of children in order to ensure child rights to non-discrimination, personal dignity, education and quality life. The adoption of a new law will ensure the availability of low circulation textbooks for all students, which has a positive impact on both the quality and justice of the educational and educational process and the achievement of students with development and disability disorders. Educational process in the language of national minorities. In this way it becomes possible to meet the specific needs of different groups of students including students with developmental disorders. The issuers' obligation to invest part of their business income for development or to publish low-level textbooks themselves is a positive example of socially responsible business within an important social area and reduces the need for low-cost textbooks to be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The increase in the number of digital textbooks, manuals and other teaching tools creates conditions for modern teaching facilities that are adapted to the age and interest of students, which enables interactive knowledge process and improvement of student achievements, as well as the monitoring of modern trends in education and education. The decision on the bill will, in particular, affect the textbook publisher by introducing faster and more efficient procedures, approving textbook manuscripts, as well as more effective work by the Commission to approve textbook manuscripts and a more rational way of recruiting professionals, leading to the development of better textbooks in the future, whose effects will work positively on the quality of the educational process. At the end of my presentation, I have to thank the Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević, who visited my local government of Sokobanj and supervised the work on the reconstruction of the secondary school, for which the Serbian government has singled out 80,000,000 dinars, which has never been the case in my local self-government, and has positively assessed everything that is done in our local self-government, which is that we have provided free transport, not only for the founding, but also for high school students, that we have introduced free lunch for all students, regardless of their material status as primary school. What they keep telling us on the other hand is that we don't care and our kids don't have any lunch money, maybe it was in their time, but at the time of our house care for the kids, it's not, so I'm going to vote in the day to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31015	The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31016	I welcome the minister with his associates. I'd like first of all to talk about the textbook law. As far as I've had the chance to talk, the profession says the bill is good. I would especially like to commend Article 12, which says the textbooks will be printed in Serbian and Cyrillic. On the other hand, I believe that as professionals you won't mind any constructive criticism, because as much as we have achievements, I believe you agree that you can always do better. We are going to adopt this law here, and that part of the work concerning the MPs remains a very important task for the ministry itself, and that is the application of this law. It's usually the biggest problem in practice. I welcome, above all, that the quality of the textbooks will be controlled with several instances, starting with the minister himself, the Education and Education Office, so we certainly won't have a scandal anymore. I would like to remind you of a concrete example, when students of the sixth grade of primary school offered a textbook of the Institute for Teachers and Teachers, when the author of the history textbook, Rade Mihaljcic, wrote that Serbs had taken Kosovo from Albanians. Apparently, Stefan Nemanja still did that to the Albanians back then, and we all know when that country was ever created and in what way. In any case, I believe that such things will not happen in the future. I believe Rade Mihaljcic will no longer have the opportunity to write textbooks for our children. Since I've made a real effort to hear people from the profession, I want to pass on some more things from law enforcement, and it may not apply to the Bookbooks Act right now, but it's about electronic journals. Since it tends to be gone, to run everything by electronic means, teachers have to rush to the classroom after class, in order to enter on one to two computers used by all professors who were absent from the students and to carry out all that is required of them, to enter grades, etc. So, with the application of this law, it simply has to go parallel and all that is required. We started an inclusive education years ago, and these students, kids, they still don't have pedagogical assistants. As far as free textbooks are concerned, we will not fully agree. It's okay, there are also poor groups and many sensitive groups and families with more children, but if we talk at the same time about supporting families, about population policy, then I'm sure the minister of education will find a way to persuade a fellow finance minister and others in the government to find money for it, in the form of budget rebalances. If Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic is throwing money at any kind of competition, on unsuccessful competitions, to add, whether or not I know of any winning marketing experts, it is better if she returns it to the budget and focuses on free textbooks. I'm sure there are many more items to be provided for. Unfortunately, Serbia does not have many children. If basic education is basic, then it would really be good to find a way to keep the textbooks free. These really aren't cheap political points. Let the Minister of Education do it himself and find a way. The opposition is only there to insist, until there is a final realization. We have foreseen some small changes, however, so that we can support this law in the voting day. I would refer here to Article 27 of the conflict of interest and we discussed it. So, if the Director of the Education and Education Institute has previously written textbooks, then let him decide whether these textbooks will continue to be in circulation and he will continue to receive money because he wrote them, and he will no longer be the director or he will be the director, and those textbooks will be withdrawn and he will not have additional receipts from that side. It's very simple to solve. The second member to which I would have objections is a member of the 38th Bureau of textbooks to print low budget textbooks, and that the note as a guarantee of payment for it is not given to them as an executor, but to the minister. So, the minister here has some discretionary right to decide whether tomorrow will be, if there is a forced charge, whether it will be done or not, which I also don't think is right and very easy to fix, but we'll talk about it in detail. I just want to finally, as a parent, as a MP, to thank all the educators who are saving their jobs, because I believe that this profession, like doctors, actually suffers the greatest burden of the situation in society. We have quite enough cases to praise where teachers, teachers, teachers really are committed to their profession, they are turned to students in the best possible way, they don't look back at how low their incomes are and how little they pay for their work. Well, I hope you don't take this as a criticism, too, but as an additional incentive, where all these very important aspects of every day life for all Serbian citizens can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31017	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31018	I'd give an answer for the electronic logs. So we started before the total digitization, long before we had money, computers and everything, but we made a project to see how the story goes and he related to the projected 200 schools. It's a surprise that now it's 566 and the number's in the optics higher. Schools that don't have conditions won't even start it. So they don't have to rape the story until we get the equipment and we know it. It doesn't have to be an PS computer. There's also pills apps. So there are simpler solutions. That's what the director should call the E-enlightenment team and get consultations and everything. So, it's not a problem, it's probably a rush, but it's not a big deal, we can solve it. What is an analysis, what we did for the first part, and what the educators themselves welcomed that it now takes less time for the administration, we suspended writing some special journals for some special activities, reduced even that part, and I think that what's more important in the e-data, except for some digitisation itself, someone today said it was modern, useful. Not just because it's fashion, it's phase two and the pilot starts this year's analysis. Do you know how good it is when we check through the e-data the students' knowledge system for one area across Serbia's territory? We've never done that. According to our ears, that's good, maybe they've learned, maybe they haven't. That's what we need not to scold someone, but to know where to step up our training, where it's a malfunction, so it's no big deal. It's not a dispute that the bonds will go to the ministry. You know, for years, we've been covering the minuses of that same textbook department. He used to be called a teacher, but he doesn't have that function. We are certainly obliged to forward it. We're like a guarantee, a jury. It's such a solution technically, and I don't see it bothers anyone. Thank you for complimenting the law. Everything that can be constructive is fine. A colleague who served as head of the school until the election as director of the Institute was legitimately, legally authored, as well as any other teacher. He won't do it anymore, because he can't do it because of the conflict of interest, but if that textbook is still in circulation, you know the procedure that the law provides for and for the worst textbook that we need to withdraw can't be withdrawn by the end of the year and for the price, and for the children and all that. There's just a technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31019	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31020	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, in the framework of the reform of education today are the proposals for the laws of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Much has been achieved on the promotion of these areas, which should be congratulated on the minister and his team. We have continuity, we're serious, so the results are undeniable. When we are done creating a legal framework and implementing the adopted laws in practice, all the effects of the work invested will be clearly visible. I know how much you, Minister, spend with your team on the ground. I know how much you talk to everyone, you visit all institutions, and that's a prerequisite for quality problem solving. Better quality in education, among other things, is provided with quality textbooks. The lack of standard textbook quality will be resolved by this bill. This law also introduces private publishers, so far the publishing of textbooks has been exclusively in the jurisdiction of the public firm of the Bookshop, and we have just heard in the minister's presentation of what is happening with the Book Office. The opening of the market introduces a variety of offers and quality competition. With the established procedure for approving textbooks and respect for the standards prescribed here, quality is provided, and the decades-long monopoly in the field of publishing textbooks is exceeded. The ultimate effect of these measures will be the protection of family budgets. Then, the publication of textbooks for students with developmental and disability disorders so far has not been satisfactory. This law includes improving, predicting and simplifying procedures, and ensuring a better quality of textbooks. Article 10 of this proposal provides for funding, i.e. co-financing of the purchase of textbooks, especially for students who are socially and materially at risk, as well as for students with disabilities and disabilities. The government, in line with the resources available in the Republic of Serbia's budget, will make a decision on financing these textbooks according to established criteria. Article 27 prevents conflict of interest. Therefore, persons who participate in the procedure of making an expert assessment and expert opinion in the process of approving textbook manuscripts cannot be authors of textbooks, not employees of publishers, nor in any way related to the publisher. This significantly reduces corruption space. This significantly reduces not only corruption space but clearly prescribes a fine for issuers in the event of an offence, i.e. if the publisher contacts or influences members of the expert commission will be fined. Another good news for parents who are governed by this law is the content of Article 35, which defines that a teacher can recommend to the students an additional teaching tool, but without conditioning the purchase of the same. The purchase of additional curricula will be carried out exclusively by the consent of parents' advice and the individual consent of each parent. In my opinion, this bill introduces order, introduces a standard of quality textbooks and reduces the cost of textbooks. It allows equal availability of education and education and I will absolutely support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31021	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31022	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates, following this debate in the past few days, which I found most impressive somewhere, is that yesterday you said you were absolutely conscious and you had no delusions and you didn't even think about it, and you didn't say that Serbian education was coming from you. I remember from some previous discussions, and about the Law on Education, that you also said that nothing is a sacred letter and that there is no thing that is not subject to change, and that time will certainly show the applicability of everything that we do here. Of course, we are all here together with you on the same mission, to see all these problems together, to remove them, and to change some legal proposals eventually. Finally, on the day the government was elected in this distinguished home, in an exposé that was the current prime minister, and the current prime minister, on the 94th side of the exhibition, was made clear, as she said, that education would be one of the priorities for which the promotion will be particularly advocated and one of the main focus of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, today is proof that we MPs who gave trust on that day and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you as a resolute minister in it, have not made a mistake. The proof of this is also this Law on textbooks, which I have specifically referred to, but also all previous legal proposals in the field of education, which are reformatory, which have passed this respected home. The advantage of this textbook law is that it has been positively assessed by the association and by individuals, teaching staff, all those who participated in this and, as they say, it has been done properly. A task force has been formed, which is headed by your associate, i.e. your associates and you, as resolute minister, prepared this law and today we have no objections to the association, no individuals, no teachers, and here is no good part of the opposition. It's about the value of this law that's in front of us today and the citizens need to know that. I paid particular attention to Articles 11 and 12 because I am someone who comes from a multinational environment, from Subotica, and I know how important it is when it comes to low-level textbooks for all my neighbours, and the Bunjevci, and the Croats, and Hungarians, and here we have heard today and representatives of the Bosniak national minority and I think it is an example of how to treat those who all live together with us in the Republic of Serbia and without whom Serbia would not be who it is. On the other hand, the Government has also shown that we are taking care of our people who are on another territory, in another minority country, and we are investing in their education systems through the adaptations of their schools, helping their population policy, helping them to preserve culture, but never denying and paying attention to the rights of all those national minorities living with us in the Republic of Serbia, and that is precisely how we set an example of what we expect for our community in the surrounding countries, and today I am proud of what I see in Article 11 but also what I see in Article 12 when it comes to protection and Cyrillic letters and Serbian. You also respected the criticisms of the Anti-Corruption Agency in Article 27, as I recall, you clearly separated. When it comes to persons participating in the professional evaluation process, they cannot in any way be associated with the author or the publisher, nor may they be associated with the persons associated with them. They're making one statement about it. You heard the remark today – my God, it's just one statement, that statement doesn't mean anything, but it's important who tells you. Serbian citizens should know that the statement itself means responsibility. You now know that those who have criticised this Article 27 today have no problem making any statement, nor whether the statement will affect them negatively, especially whether it will negatively affect Serbia and the citizens of Serbia themselves. I think a lot has already been said and I think a lot has been said by my fellow MPs from the SNS. I will stop here and note that for this legislation in the voting day we will give support, as we have so far given for other reform laws in the field of education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31023	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. One minute and 30 seconds. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31024	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister Sarčević and his associates, Mr. Ruzic and his associates, are ahead of us three very important laws in the field of education and education that will certainly contribute to further improvement of education and education and science and laws from the modernisation of the administration, all of which will contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which our President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia so warmly advocate. Members of the People's Parliament, education and education in the Republic of Serbia are among those sectors that have experienced the biggest disturbances in the transition. So the entire educational system of one European prestigious level was brought during the former regime's party into the biggest crisis and devastation in the history of education and pedagogical ideas with us. Is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? Through the entire system of education and education, we must affirm knowledge and education, as the fellow minister said, because without the knowledge and training of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is no, gentlemen from opposition benches, democracy, because the knowledge of democracy is precisely the assumption of democracy. That is why many serious governments in the world have given education and education a prominent place in their exposés. For the first time, we had the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in 2016 and current President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic. On page 72 of his exposé, he said, quote, "What is most important to us, what I wrote about most in the exposé, is education reform. We need to raise knowledge to a pedestal from which you can see further, to the adoption of new knowledge," finished the quote. As if Mr. Vukic had in mind the words of the great English philosopher Francis Bacon, who said, I quote, "A grain of knowledge is stronger than steel," finished a quote, or perhaps President Vukic had in mind, when he gave his knowledge priority in his work programme, the words of the famous German philosopher Leibnica who said, quote, "Give me education and education and we will change the character of Europe for a century," finished the quote. The current Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Sarcevic have devoted themselves to the education and education of eight sides in an exposé where besides the rest, I quote, "We will advocate the adaptation of our 19th-century education system to bring it into the 21st century," the quote concluded. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS, when it came to power, also succeeded Mr. Sarcevic in the most part, the system of education and education in which he had been brought by the former regime, which was etatization, politisation, red tape, antipedagogisation, because they had expelled education not only from school and parent home but from society, it was even forbidden to talk about education, and the laws did not bear the title - the law on education and education, but about education. Mr. Sarcevic is returning it to the system now. Commercialization. They, Mr. Minister, introduced it. Two textbooks each champion had to have. One bum at school, one at home. Gentlemen of the opposition benches, what do you call it, the former regime? You brought in the lockers for the kids, who broke down the other day. What do you call it, gentlemen, you're not from the opposition benches? You ran away now, because you know what's waiting for you tonight. Sorosing. They have removed, gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected parents, all patriotic, most patriotic contents from the textbook. I'm not going to say which one now. Mr. Minister Sarcevic is returning it now a little bit and we will really come to the level, as other countries have, and we will restore education in the spirit of Serbian patriotism and for peace. Unfortunately, that's not what the previous regime was doing. Corruption, not to speak. Here, Mr. Minister, now with these measures, it brings it down to a reasonable measure. Inefficiencies. Mr. Chairman, they resent Mr. Sarčević for saying the word "effectiveness". That's who knows pedagogy and teachers, that's the favorite word in the education system. It's very effective, and they've forced inefficiency and brought the system to a very low level. Former Minister Srdjan Verbic tried and introduced a part of the school to dual education. Mr. Minister Sarcevic has stepped deep into this dual education system. It is the most faithful pedagogical achievement in the modern pedagogogoggy of vocational schools in the world. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, high education, for the sake of time, I only have two, three sentences, and it requires reconstruction at the level of the pedagogical revolution. Facultys must be open to new progressive courses in education and science with critical evaluation of the creative takeover of foreign ideas and models in our pedagogical practice exactly, Mr. Chairman, as Mr. Minister Sarcevic does in primary and secondary schools. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition benches or not? We had a party of the former regime over a hundred out-of-state colleges without accreditation, without supervision, no one knew their number. Today is not the situation. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition benches, or not? Educational inspection didn't do her job at all, so how's it gonna work? They had four inspectors. They're on purpose for higher education so they don't do their job so they can do what they did. I'll quote you an educational inspector, chief of inspection on what he found. I quote: "Teaching in higher education takes place during the party of the former regime by cafes, abandoned factories, sports halls and bricks. Rarely whoever had the right classrooms, libraries and permanent employees," finished the quote. She submitted "Policy, List, a statement by the former inspection chief who had his own private firms, who fortunately went away in 2012. They opened colleges, believe it or not, honest citizens, and in other countries by abandoned cafes. I quote, the chief education inspector from Banja Luka sent us to determine the facts because they found 50 students of a private New Sad university that was held at a pub in Banja Luka. They seized the indexes, but when they got an answer from that college that the students were just on a field trip, they had to come back, finished a quote. I'm not going to say which leaf and so... So, gentlemen of the opposition, from the party of the former regime, you have destroyed the educational system, which we cannot just return to the level of the generation behind us. Let me say that it's excellent, Mr. Minister, which is the Inspection Act ahead of us and that you've really done it correctly and the Bookbooks Act. It must not happen, as it was during the former regime's party, that students buy us two Bucharests. They kept one at school, the other at home. As it is called, respected citizens and parents, you assess, and the former regime should evaluate. Now, because of your modesty, Mr. Minister, and the great pedagogical experience, let the gentlemen of the opposition benches, from the party of the former regime, since they are gone, I say what they did, to ask them if it's true. You have affirmed dual education as the greatest achievement of the modern teaching theory of vocational schools, and thus have greatly stepped into the reform of secondary schools. Right, gentlemen of the former regime? You've reformed the start of high school. Is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? Fifteen years no one's touched them. You have updated the teaching process, the introduction of new contemporary subjects, the basics of information, the basics of security and that education, which they have expelled from school. So, 24,000 hours along with you, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Minister of Security, you gave a lecture in schools. Is that right, gentlemen from the opposition benches, or not? You've reconfirmed the educational component of school, teaching, parents and school environments. You've taken order in schools in the majority. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition you're looking at now from the rooms of the assembly? You've introduced a national qualification framework, and for 15 years they've been hanging out about it. We offered them for a year. But thank you for bringing it in. Mr. Minister, you were the first in the world to use a model of programmed learning in the fifth grade of elementary school, because you didn't say it because of modesty, I have the courage to say it. Is that right, gentlemen from the opposition benches, or isn't it? Let's move on, let me say that you used the word - efficiency very often and you got objections. You know who can give you any objections? Those who have no idea about education and education. They're surprised at the elementary school teachers for what they're talking about. It's your greatest success to use that word all the time because you're a man of your craft. Let me tell you about textbooks only two sentences. You're on the verge of getting us thrown in line. Together with the Bureau, we totally understood that. But please don't let five textbooks and all five tests be used in history, because they have to have all five, and that happens, I checked that strictly. So they have to take all five textbooks. And in the end, what you said in one sentence, none of these gentlemen are teachers, teachers and teachers. They are the backbone of education and education and that is why the center you form is the ideal thing. John Dewey, you know who that is, the American pedagogue, the biggest, said, quote -- if the state doesn't pay the teacher today, they'll pay 10 cops tomorrow. That's the point. They've driven the education out of society, and we can get 100 cops to school, because we have rude, unfortunately, parents and one part of the students, and many generations will have to suffer. And, in the end, what the students were asking for in the old program of me. Gentlemen, you have the 1st of October, learn, no one will extend to you any longer. I'm informed that you've brought most of this to an end and go back to school, because the greatest minds were created in the late years. Just to give one piece of information - Plato the fifth century before the new era in the 80th year of "Laws", my famous work, Kant, you know "The Critic of the Pure Mind" in the 66th year, Sophocle "Edip on the Knees" in 89th put on the scene. It's never too late. Dear Vice President, yesterday I heard some monstrous statements here, and I will quote, when the greatest evil of our people in Kosovo and Metohija was happening, I am working down on KIM, when I say, the bandits beat Mark Đurić and the rest of our people in KIM, one of the party's presidents, the former president of the state said so - both Marko Djuric and Aleksandar Vucic, quote - are burning nationalist fires. It is the one, Mr. Vice President, who, along with his minister, was a descendant of KIM, who transferred the talks on the UN organisation's authority to the EU and thus brought Eulex to the back not only Serbs, but also to the state of Serbia. Is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? That is what they, Jeremic and Tadic, who were the undisputed issue of Serbia's sovereignty before the UN General Assembly's Committee for the first time made a controversial motion for a resolution seeking the International Court of Justice's opinion on the legality of KIM's unilateral independence. Gentlemen of the citizens, Tadic, as president of Serbia, gave part of Serbia to Croats. It is about Vukovar Jada in the Danube, which Tadic gave to Croatians in 2006 in agreement with Ivan Josipovic. That's what man tells us, man can say that Mr. Alexander Vukic, I quote -- he lights nationalist fires, at the moment we survive, our people in Kosovo, the biggest tragedy, only one who has no shame, who has no morals, who doesn't have a minimum of patriotic education, no feelings, and he and his minister, Wolf, are just lufti butts, that means non-workers, common lezilebovics and, gentlemen citizens, ordinary bastards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31025	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. (Diana Vukomanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Dijana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31026	I thank the chairman. I really think that in this further discussion, when there are still enough opposition MPs who hold the Parliament's dignity, Mr. Chairman, I call on Article 107, and I am, of course, speaking to you and, please, I do not suggest that you give a warning, but indeed MPs who are adhering to their education and their academic titles are really unsuitable to use a dictionary that is not like the National Assembly. So your task is as chairman to warn an MP, a previous speaker who uses street terms in his dictionary. He has the freedom to think that and speak on the SNS's board. Let him answer his word there, but I really think it's our task, all of us, to preserve the dignity of the congregation and not to use the street dictionary in this lofty home.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31027	My colleague Vukomanovic, I have not even been able to give any suggestions to my colleague Atlagic because he finished his presentation, and not even to remind him. (Branka Stamenkovic: You called the next. Will you let me finish, colleague Branka? I know that I am determined to lead, and I know perfectly well that someone here defends itself not against the policy that is being conducted in this assembly, nor from the policy that is happening on the SNS's main board, but rather from defending himself against the historical responsibility for the moves he has made while leading the state. That's what this is about. You know, that court is much worse than defeat in the election. (Branka Stamenkovic: He said the word "luftiguz". ) I give you a warning from my colleagues Bosnjak. I apologize, colleague Stamenkovic. I give you a warning. I've made up my mind, unlike some, and I admit my mistake. Some never admit it. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31028	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just silence your friend. (Diana Vukomanovic: You could have asked me if I wanted the National Assembly to plead.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31029	Excuse me, colleague Risticevic, would you like the People's Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (Diana Vukomanovic: Yes. ) It will come out. Ask for the word of your colleague Rističević again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a member of 103th and a member of 107th and I'm advertising a false representation. Mr. Chairman, it is a practice that when someone advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, they do so because they have not received a replica to at least raise the Rules of Procedure, even if they take it to the Assembly. So, obviously, except that a friend of mine abused the Rules of Procedure, she didn't even take it. When she didn't take it, it was like this to abuse it. Next time, I advise her to take the Rules of Procedure, despite her noises. She reacted to the fact that she had not received the replica, as a member of the opposition. As far as I know, she was elected here on the SPS list, so she was not selected on the list of Vuk Jeremic, whom they call a wolf descendant, heir to the Ježevica oil source, which has therefore bought a 1m-euro apartment, spent three and a half million euros on a trip in five years. As far as I know, this wolf descendant has two MPs here who are two different parliamentary groups. If we continue with this practice, we no longer know who is going to be the famous Wolf descendant, who has sought the shamefully non-binding opinion of the International Court of Justice and who has led to the international recognition of KIM, which has led to the declaration of the false state of KIM. We don't know who's gonna answer it anymore. So I believe that it was a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure, that it was a replica, that it was an abuse, and if there was a time of two minutes, I advise you to take away your friend, to keep an eye on the MPs of Vuk Jeremic, known as the Wolf, or not, given that he has MPs in two parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31031	No MP is obliged to wave to the Rules of Procedure. She's bound to apply for a word, and then I'll ask for the basis, which my colleague was late for. The word is made by MP Branka Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31032	Thank you. Member of the 103rd Parliament called, was a second position. He reported to the Rules of Procedure, entered the replica, and you allowed him to do so, and just now MP Atlagic said the word "luftiguz", you did not blink, and when I rebelled and asked you to warn him, you gave me a warning. I now demand that you withdraw this warning you gave me, punish Ambassador Atlagic, and if you do not, I ask that this be voted on in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31033	After withdrawing the warning I gave not a single word. (Branka Stamenkovic: So, "luftiguz" is fine. So forget it and keep throwing it, that's why you got the warning. Nothing else. That's the only reason nothing else. (Branka Stamenkovic: Seselj was throwing too.) ) Perhaps Mr. Seselj threw but did not interfere with the work of the congregation. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Branka Stamenkovic: Of course. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31034	Dear Vice President, here is the 107th dignity of the National Assembly, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for intellectuals watching the university professor. Luftiguz means unemployed, and since my colleague Meho transferred me from not understanding it, but only intellectuals, I also translated it into the people's language to the citizens. I recommend to my colleague, since he's a science doctor, let him look into the dictionary and see what that means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31035	Comrade Chevarlich, on what grounds? Wait till you're called. I didn't call you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31036	Thank you. I'll be more practical and only talk about two laws. One is the Law of Educational Inspection, very short. I don't think that area has been well solved so far. It is very important for the educational inspection to cover practically all levels of education, i.e. education, and to reach all places and the most distant places, I mean small schools, in order to level the criteria. Just so they don't let those kids get damaged in terms of levels and education and education. The other thing that has not worked well so far is Article 18 and 22 transferred from the Ministry level to the level of local self-government, i.e. cities, or municipalities. The municipalities or cities either had educational inspectors or had no educational inspectors and the issue was not sufficiently resolved, where there were no educational inspectors at the level of local self-government. This law has dealt with it. Article 22 has decided that the minister will prescribe rules on the election. In view of the fact that an educational inspector at the level of the city or municipality is not selected, it will be carried out by the Ministry or the Ministry of Inspection at the level of the Ministry with a certain remuneration. I think it's a solution and it's a good solution, that at any moment there can be no empty walk or self-initiative or illicit behavior. I welcome that part and I think it practically covers both local and republican levels. The second law I want to talk about, I think he's been hit, given that it's a newspaper and something that's been going on in this assembly. I also think certain misunderstandings at that level have been happening. It's the National Geospace Data Infrastructure Act. I'm not going to talk much about the law itself, but I'm going to say something that is not understood, and I'm going to say something about the Republic Geodetic Institute and the workers, or people who work at the Republic Geodetic Institute and who will work to the most extent on the level of geospace data. This law establishes the maintenance of national geospace data infrastructures. What's geospace data is data with a specific location or connected to a geographical area. Geospace data, I just want to make a quick list of what they are. Article 10 is replaced by the following: I think it'll be a little clearer, since this law is high-level, and I think it's hard to be understood by ordinary citizens, and the level of the law is such that it has to be at this level, so it's reference systems, geographical measures and administrative units, addresses, cadastrian parcels, hydrographics, heights, land cover, statistical units of the building, etc. What is very important is that the establishment of national geospace data infrastructure will be implemented by the Council. The Council will be headed by the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute. I think it's the right choice and I think that both certain knowledge and certain professional data found in the Republic Geodetic Institute logically require it to be the director of the Republic Geodetic Institute with its associates. The application itself, when that system is established, will enable individual gain, natural person, through economy, public sector, state, etc. I'm just going to say one plastic example of how we can use it in an efficient way. For example, fruit growing at the state level. For now, we do not have a reonization or ministry, or government, ready to adopt a regulation or regulation to resonate the area for certain fruit production. When that reonization is done, through the use of geospace data, other data etc., very easily and very quickly can be reached where certain fruit production can succeed and where the state will finance this type of production. So, they won't have to ask questions at certain professional agricultural institutions, they won't have to find out in some other way, simply by clicking on that information. It's one practical and good thing where these data can be used in this way. What appears here and I think we need to explain a little bit what the Republic Geodetic Institute is. There are a lot of misunderstandings here, especially from some MPs. The Republic Geodetic Institute is a set of cathedrals throughout Serbia and the essence of the latest work is taking place there. That's where the data is. The notion of unsustainable catastrasts, the unscheduledness of the Republic Geodesy Institute, is very often abused here. The Republic Geodetic Institute is unscheduled to the extent that the items are not solved. He's so unsupervised. The owner, the user of the immovable property, is responsible for the up-to-dateness, not the Republic Geodetic Institute. This shall be misused at all levels, as if the Republic Geodetic Institute is obliged to worry about the immovableity where the owners are tasked to report within a month of certain changes, or if not registered, to the Republic Geodetic Office in order to comply with that request. Simply, the owners and users of the immovable property are obliged to report their immovableities, change, or, if they are not registered, to report, that the Republic Geodetic Institute would conduct and adopt certain acts, i.e. solutions and carry out books in the Republic of Geodetic Office. So, the up-to-date or unscheduledness of the Republic Geodesy Institute cannot be attributed to the Republic Geodesy Institute. It can only be attributed to the extent that the pending requirements in the Republic Geodetic Institute are met. What is very important next, and I have to look back on it, yesterday in a principle debate, counterpart Zoran Zivkovic said, I read from a stenogram, meaning nothing arbitrary: "Can any of Serbia's citizens be sure when they go to the Catastran to know what he is interested in there to answer the truth? Please, I know by my case", etc., etc. He goes on to say, "Catastar is something, there's one proverb -- it can be but it doesn't have to mean," with the right accent. "It is something that may be, perhaps it is not and it is not making huge problems." And what's most important is what my colleague Zivkovic said – that catastres are practically like one library that some horde of drunken, illiterate tambourines entered. I repeat: “Catastres are like one library that some hordes of drunken, illiterate tambourines have entered. ” Please, I think Mr. Martinovic reacted here, but that's not enough. He reacted on his own and on his own level, but I think the chairman had to react much more strongly to these statements. It's a state body, please, it's a state body. You're talking about someone who's doing a government job saying a bunch of drunken illiterates. I've heard the word for the first time, but it probably means something to him. In a way, I feel my commitment because my base, I'm these professions, I've been doing this job, I'm still working there, I've been in places where I could see inside the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute, or catastras, and I know what it's doing, how much it's done, and how responsible the job is. If we want a serious state, who doesn't have a built-in real estate and a record of their rights, I don't think there's a serious state. I think we have both a serious state and a serious catastre and a serious Republic Geodetic Institute. For these reasons, I say, I am obliged to react, to deny that this is not so, that practically oiled and state-owned bodies, as a special organization, the Republic Geodetic Service, all workers there, besides geodetics there are some other workers, from lawyers, some other workers, etc., auxiliary staff, are all oiled, oiled profession and outside the Republic Geodetic Institute, means profession, where about half the geodetics work in the Republic Geodetic Institute, half of them work outside of it. They're all snotty and they just have to react to it. Please, if anyone's in a hurry, I think this is very important. I'll say one more thing. The late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was president of a commission in the Republic Geodetic Institute while he was prime minister. Zoran Zivkovic, who is his successor, managed to crush him, as Zoran Djindjic probably understood what the Republic Geodetic Institute was doing and was officially president of a commission in the Republic Geodetic Institute. Could there be a horde of drunk people working on roads, on bridges? You've seen bridges here and in Belgrade. You can see that the bridge is built on both sides and on the other side, and that somewhere in the middle, it is assembled without error. The tunnels are bathed on one side and on the other, so the tunnels are dug on four sides. What do you think, you make four tunnels, can a horde of drunk people do that? Can the military work without this? He can't. Can the rockets, fill the software with coordinates that shoot at an inch? Can a horde of drunk people do that? My proposal, if possible, that the chairman of the Assembly should give the sentence or the most severe punishment, so that the Republic Institute, through its representatives here, through the Director of the Republic Geodesy Institute, will publicly respond and deny such statements that are simply not worthy of any level, let alone this Assembly. I'm asking you to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31037	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Zoran Radojcic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31038	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members, respected citizens, a set of laws on this agenda clearly demonstrates the seriousness of these ministers here and this government and, of course, ours in the National Assembly. What I would like to do at the beginning is to end the debate in principle, to deny opposition colleagues who have stated that no one is seriously involved in school. It is these laws, those laws that we have passed, that we have adopted in previous discussions that this is exactly the ministry and this government all along with this National Assembly that is most serious and in the most qualitative and above all the most efficient way of dealing with the very laws that define education. It is impossible to skip and not mention everything that preceded this law and these laws, which were textbooks that were primarily intended for teachers, not students, were laws that placed educational workers at the centre, and not enough students who did not protect students and who did not lead to quality and professional titles as a product. It is the National Qualifications Framework that will lead to a orderly area which has been disputed for years and which has been mentioned in the back, as well as the laws that have been taken over and brought to this Assembly, which will hopefully be voted in the Voting Day, that shows the seriousness of those who think about education. Taking responsibility and passing new laws and not correcting the old ones, all these five laws that are on the agenda are just new laws, show that these people are doing their job. European frameworks are something that is, of course, part of what laws rely on, but essentially the basic formula of all these laws is aimed at students, citizens and all those who think well of this country. Years ago, no one had the courage to deal with problems and responsibility for what we are going to vote today is, of course, not today, but in the voting day for both us and those who have proposed, but also the results of these laws will be achieved and will be clear and visible only in a few years. Certainly one very significant law is precisely the Law on Electronic Business, on Electronic Administration. It's part of a specific law and it goes into all the laws that we're talking about, the laws that we used to talk about. If I tell you that we used to fantasize and dream about e-government, we have this electronic administration. Digitalization is something that doesn't knock on our door, it's something that's already in our house. I would really like our people, the Serbian people, the people who live in Serbia, to really be very talented, and I'm sure everyone from three to 93 years is very capable and very ready, we've moved very quickly with letters and postcards to SMS and MMS messages, and we'll move faster from SMS to MMS to digital business. For every praise, we are extremely talented at digitizing and we think that in the world of this, I end my exhibition, the future of Serbia is the future of all of us, especially our descendants, in just fine and quality educational laws in digitisation and on the path that this government is doing well and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31039	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. You've got another minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I have three questions or requests, if you are not able to answer now, you may later. The first application stems from the requirements of a number of national Serb organisations from the region, which are asking for a Serbian-language Bucharest to be made unique for all Serbian children, as German is learned from German textbooks both in Germany, Austria and Switzerland canton of German-speaking areas, English in England, America, etc. The second question, yes, please review the biology textbook, eighth grade, the "Logos" edition, is the author of Gordana Subanov Simic, in which the next one stands. In the section of the discoverers – corn, soybeans, oily tails and cotton is now almost 100% genetically modified organisms. It's an absolute untruth, because the total surface area under genetically modified organisms in the world is 180 million hectares, and that's about 10% of the world's farmland. Another inaccuracy in this same method unit, it says, before that, just a moment to open that slide, is ultimately a sentence that organic agricultural production is, under the assumption, organic production, created in response to GMOs. Organic farming existed at a time when no agricultural resources were used at all. Thirdly, please allow today 99 years of the Faculty of Agriculture, the University of Belgrade, one of the six oldest universities within the University of Belgrade, which is between 200 and 300 seats and for you in particular, please, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Republic of Serbia, has decided in time to take some 800 hectares on the move of the Crvenkovski within the PKK, which will be privatised to the Agricultural Faculty of Belgrade for the View of War and stoning, which our university does not have. Please try with the Minister of Economy and the Dean to discuss it with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31041	I thank my colleague. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31042	I'll try to answer in 30 seconds. For this third, Minister Nedimovic and I are fully in favour. Contacting the dean and all other preparations, for a hundred years, we work intensively and prepare a good budget for the renovation of all other parts of the university. Secondly, we'll look at the textbooks, I'm absolutely against GMOs, so we'll take a look at it, I really didn't know. What's important is, first of all, you weren't at the session yesterday when I was talking about, that we created a unit at the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education from people who only deal with the profession of so-called. national sciences, history and geography, language and literature and Bucharests, and so on, we are working on a unique curricula and programme. Through special ties with Republika Srpska, it is no secret, it is done by all the countries of the world, where we include our diaspora and Serbs from the region. One day, it is likely that those who live in other parts of which were once Serbs will remember to approach, but I think you understand me. So it's a unique need, and for the first time we're doing it very organized and it's working on a unique diaspora jar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31043	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31044	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, honourable MPs, I will talk about the proposal for a law on e-Government. Can you imagine the next situation in Serbia? It takes five minutes to start a new company, another few minutes to start bank accounts for a new company. Just a few seconds, so less than a minute is enough to sign business contracts, by means of smart phones. The possibility of holding elections whether local or parliamentary voting is from their living room or from any part of the world where the Internet is available. Any job you have to do with the state administration can be done in one day via the Internet and so on. It is difficult to imagine such a situation in our country, but it is the kind of Serbia we seek. The more you can assume, but all of these, and much more than that, for years back, is possible in a small almost smallest EU country in Estonia, a country that has been identified back in years for digitisation that has long been committed to the adoption and implementation of rules in the EU that will support four freedoms of the EU, which are freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital, extends to another fifth, freedom of movement of data. The existing rules on where public institutions and private businesses can use and store and store collected data in EU countries are largely tailored towards national borders, and so is our country. The new regulations and solutions already applied in Estonia, and then other EU countries, are indeed making life easier for citizens, because there are no more need for stamps and piles of paper and signatures, waiting on counters and so forth. Recently, for who knows which time in my life I have again experienced waiting in front of a counter in order to obtain the desired confirmation, again I have experienced hearing from the clerk – I am sorry, the system has fallen, the horror. Here are some innovations that Estonia has long put into practice. Digital contracting, the possibility of setting up a company in Estonia without obligation to have a residence or residence there, and you don't even have to walk into Estonia, so to speak. esistence. The costs of setting up a company, but also the requirements of the state of bureaucracy, are reduced to a minimum, so business management takes place on the Internet and it is not necessary to hire even a local director, and taxation is very simple. For the first two and a half years of this system, 20,000 natural persons, legal entities from 138 different countries, imagine even the Japanese prime minister, and the Estonians expect to have as many as 10 million heresidents by the end of 2025, a good job, don't they? Any job you have to do with the public administration in Estonia, you can do on the Internet, anything other than doing something considered high-risk, such as getting married in a joke, but also proudly, the Estonians say. Making choices, voting from the house, I talked about it. In Estonia, in the parliamentary elections long ago 2011, they voted online and arrived from 105 countries in the world. Twenty years ago, online banking was in turn, and today even pensioners in Serbia, so we have paid payments with their smartphones. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that you have considered how many trees the trees of the forest are cut down and permanently destroyed, only because of the paper in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Add to that the destroyed forests due to the needs of the other institutions. Think about it. In the end, I want to look back at previous exhibitions and some skeptical statements like the one that we haven't even built the sewers, the waterways and the paved roads to our houses yet, and we want to introduce digitization. Yes, gentlemen, we will, because if mankind had waited for every house and every family to get at least one wax candle, we wouldn't have invented a light bulb by now. So we from the SNS led by Alexander Vukic will adopt the proposed laws and move forward. Whoever wants to join us, and whoever doesn't, will live in the dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31045	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic, you have one minute, the remaining time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31046	Thank you. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the chairman says there is only one minute left. What I wanted to talk about, I mean today, is the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, and before I start anything, I'm going to finish right now. I will end this way, at the end of the SNS parliamentary group, has submitted a number of amendments to this law which each of us contributes to defining the concepts, principles and objectives of this law. Our amendments want us to strongly support this law, each of us in our own vision. I will, since it is close to me, deal with human resources policy from the development of personnel in public enterprises, but more in the debate on amendments. In voting day, we will certainly support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31047	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask whether the representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or who has not yet used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? National MP Branka Stamenkovic. It's Ovoltie.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31048	We've come to the end of the principle debate. I want to thank the Minister for being correct, for answering questions. Not all ministers are in the mood to answer questions, and I'm happy with your last answer that we put expertise in front of paper, because while the paper was in first place, we made this phenomenon of purchased diplomas. We have to find a way to deal with it, and if you could somehow promise that you're going to try, that would be great. We will not see each other now in the debate in particular, I am sorry for this, I will not have the opportunity to present my amendments, because the ruling coalition MPs have again usurped all the time foreseen for the presentation of the amendment. I wish you all the luck to get through this somehow, because somehow I imagine that not once in your life, you'll think and cry about Branka's amendments to free textbooks. We'll never agree on free textbooks, or it seems to me, in fact, that it's unfortunate that we agree. I believe the minister thinks it would be great if all kids had textbooks, but he insists he doesn't have any money. What we disagree on is that I claim that there is money and I expect the minister to take hands and feet from that place where he is fighting, to make this a priority, which is the best population policy, to help parents to support more than one child economically. In the end, I just want to say that in this National Assembly when MPs of the ruling coalition earn, it is a tradition of parliamentaryism. When I accept that tradition, it's for a warning. You're ashamed of any double arches. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31049	My colleague Stamenkovic, do not be false. No one bothered you, no one threw you. Nobody. The MPs may have spoken to each other, but no one was tossing you. It's very rude of you to accuse your colleagues who really did nothing against you while you were discussing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31050	I speak in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31051	Not at all. You've accused the MPs directly with whom you disagree to receive and to disturb you, and that as chairman, I have a double archival, you just said that. Now we've come to the fact that you've said it in general. Not at all. (Branka Stamenkovic: Not today, generally. ) Not today, not now? Okay. I like that way of thinking. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31053	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I have a few more minutes, so I'll say a few words. It's a word of parliamentaryism. I will remind you of the words of one of English-type constituciunalism and parliamentaryism, since we all know that Great Britain is the mother of parliament, who said that the British Parliament can do anything but turn a man into a woman. You've even succeeded in that. You'll read my alumni, you know what I mean. Tomorrow we'll have a chance to look into each other's eyes, hopefully, with the government and the ministers, it's the last Thursday of the month. So, you did it even. But here, not to be in that direction my final words, I want to say that the ruling coalition, therefore, will succeed in adopting this five-law set, and I want ministers, Sarcevic and Ruzic, not to come into the situation that after two years, such as this case with the Law on textbooks, to withdraw the laws that are being advocated today and simply say that the institutions of Serbia have not endured the pressure of these letters and these papers on which the laws are written and that they do not have to write any new laws that will be characterized by real life and the real situation in Serbia. So, I want you to implement the good provisions as much as possible. Our parliamentary group has also given amendments, but I am telling you that this force and that confidence will eventually come into an encounter with real life and a real situation in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31054	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31055	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, I believe that the course of this debate has shown how right we were when we first announced that these laws, these laws really have nothing to object to, that the solutions in them are truly indisputable and when you look at how this debate was going yesterday and today, face the fact that they seem to be "the most serious grudges" going in the direction that the meter register will be the weapon of the "Great Brother" and that textbooks containing more than 50 pages will act frighteningly on students. Well, as serious as it is, everyone can figure it out on their own, and it's just as serious and all the other grudges, and these were the biggest. Of course, they were said by people who, behold, have now told us they have not yet concluded, and this is what the Rules of Procedure well predicts, how much time there is and how it can be used, so they are free, of course, and they are free to do it tomorrow or any other day, those who have ended up looking with the main impression of crying no longer present in the hall and those who have announced that Britain is experiencing for a mother, something like that. (Diana Vukomanovic: Mother of Parliamentaryism. ) It is a pity that there was no place for Serbia in the statement of that kind. That's too bad, but nothing unexpected. And these bill proposals, gentlemen of the Ministers, are good proof that all those confessions they've received and the resolutions you represent have been earned. International recognitions for the education portfolio that we talked about and the last time you were in this room, and the one that concerns directly the Office for IT and E-Government, which received a prestigious award before now the other day, a world-level award to contribute to the development of an information society awarded by the World Summit. Of course, they are not without reason and without foundation, and they are good results that we achieve here and here in the domestic field not only through the good laws we adopt, which encourage us to be a society of knowledge, to be a society of competence, to be a society of capable and satisfied people, but also to build this step by step but today, for example, through the opening of new scientific and research centres, with the cooperation of our Ministry of Education with successful domestic companies, through the support of different programmes that make our people on the labour market as much as they can today, but as they can do tomorrow, to make their job easier and to make it more valuable. That's how those who really care about something but who really care. So they take care of trusted resolutions, they take care of their trusted society, they try to record a new result every day, and that result implies. Yes, there have been words about this today, building that base infrastructure where it is missing, but building this modern infrastructure that makes us aware of what year we are in, that we are not only arriving, but wherever we can reach those most successful both in the domain of digitisation and in the domain of the E-Government and all these great examples talked about by our colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group all day long. And, as we have announced, I think that this is exactly what counterpart Obradovic did, be assured, we will support good solutions and what is undeniably useful for Serbia with a lot of will, with a lot of effort, both today and in the debate and in the details of great will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-28-0.u31056	Thank you. As there are no more reports, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. We continue work tomorrow, in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure, 4:00 p.m.
