ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38667	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the third day we've been discussing amendments to only four members of one law, which I consider to be a classic obstruction. The obstruction was emigrated by MPs, on our right, who are not in the O.R. today, by the submission of hundreds and hundreds of uniform and pointless amendments, as well as by dozens and dozens of proposals for the establishment of the agenda, so that they would establish the agenda of these sessions all day long. Members of the ruling coalition responded to the obstruction, as hundreds and hundreds of amendments began to be made to the draft laws proposed by the government in this case to the draft laws proposed by the NBS. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you are the most responsible for the situation in this home. Change the Rules of Procedure, take this Parliament's work seriously. The Serbian Radical Party criticises everything that is not good in a constructive way, and accepts everything that is positive and which is in spirit and for the benefit of our people, regardless of which side it came from. We try to be maximumly committed to the work of this home and to what we are chosen for. I will use the opportunity to express my satisfaction with yesterday's visit and speech by Mr. Andrej Danko, the president of the parliament of the Republic of Slovakia, who really inspired and with emotion spoke positively about the Serbian people, unlike some MPs who did not feel comfortable at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38668	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Marina Ristic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Ristic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that this bill, which has been concluded on one page of the 29th point, is not there because of our peasant, our little businessman, or the old mountain face, who not only would have had to have a computer and the Internet, but also a personal map reader and a complete software for him. I believe that rarely any of you know how to install this software, it's very complicated, because you have to go to the MUP site, so there's an item where these programs are, so there's a version for 32 bit, version for 64 bit systems, so special programs for ID cards issued by August 2014, for those after that. Then when it is installed, then the appropriate program should be installed, so if it does not work, the C++ visual is installed, and if someone accidentally has HR, there is some third procedure. Let's not lie anymore, the EU directive dates back to 2002 raises a logical question, why now and why the emergency procedure at an emergency session? Who's all of a sudden in a hurry and why? It is no secret that millions of dollars are being paid annually from Serbia through payment cards, through fixed contracts, some Burzer relations. What channels of money laundering are now closed from the country, so we need to find a new one? This law, such a hoot, can easily be manipulated, paves the way for these illegal acts to be realized. I can't mention Meha Omerovic in this context right now, he's not still at that level, yet he's just a petty thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38670	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38671	Thank you. The National Bank of Serbia headed by the governor, of course, to manage our register and manage money flows in this country. Now just a little bit to explain to the citizens where this money came from, that the citizens know it's our money, that it's money from what? From the value added tax, so every day what we buy from 1,000 dinars, if we buy 1,000 dinars, 200 dinars we immediately put into our common register. Yeah, then from the excise, we know that, for example, right now, we have a liter of fuel as much as 10 kilos of grain. We also know that we can't go to our meadows, fields and so on, just to go, let alone do something about it because we have to pay the state through these excises a lot to pay. As long as the citizens are denied the price of fuel, they'll tell you now that these protests start. Then, of all our tight belts that the government has been insisting on all this time, to tighten the straps, to do something for the benefit of the state, in favour of Serbia, for the benefit of the people. We've been listening to it as citizens, we've tightened those belts, we've tried to get the country out, but it seems that's the only way the president of the state thinks it's working for him, while his associates seem to be giving him fake numbers and a man when he comes out and talks with optimism seems very funny, which isn't nice. Why are you doing this to the man who brought you to power? Another thing, most importantly, taxes on what does the state budget and the government's register charge? From a cab. And what kind of taxes are these? These are all taxes on every paper that we go with him today to the municipality, the mail, here, there and there and so on, and these fees are the most intense in the executioner's office. And who are your perpetrators? Well, these are the legal debt seekers that you have to introduce to the EU as a regular and normal institution. Now that the citizen is in debt to a public enterprise, and this public enterprise is in constant debt, and that permanent debt of the public enterprise is again being poured out of the state register. So, the government's register is always that reserve register for all debts in these public enterprises. Then what are we doing? We just finance, we give, we throw, and in return we get nothing as citizens. We all have to think about it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38672	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38673	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, digitization and electronic monitoring are modern-day liquids and no matter how conservative they are, they must be aware that we have to accept it, that, in the end, this future and each of us will feel on our own examples how much better there is, and how much better the payment may have been before. Now, this kind of payment should make a better contribution to the overall society, i.e. affecting the well-being of each of the country's citizens, and that is the case with us in Serbia. So I've been thinking about this for a little while, and there would be one possibility of increasing that GDP, or GDP per capita. However, I find in theory, and in practice today, that many dispute that size as something that shows us an objective picture of the lives of the population in certain countries, and so do we and then come up with one data. He says, eight of the richest people in the world have more material wealth than 3,600,000 the poorest, and then I think, well maybe those who challenge that GDP, because if you divide those sizes, you get a fake picture, and a fake picture will show us that those who are, unfortunately, a lot of poor are shown in some better form, are shown in a form that, in fact, cloudes the wealth of a certain small number of people. So that I don't bother all of you here right now, this is my chance to ask the governor of the National Bank to show me the honor of coming to her once and for her to explain something to me about this theory that I've just presented. It'll be my pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38674	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38675	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, I would like to begin by commending really this law that we are discussing today and that I have submitted the amendment to point out the importance of this law and the subject matter of the regulation of this law on international co-operation and international business. By passing these laws, as well as the other laws we passed during your term of office, Mrs Tabakovic, which is closer and better regulated by the electronic business system, we have done much for international co-operation and international business. By passing these laws, not only will we bring Serbia closer to the countries of the developed world, but it will simplify and facilitate and business in the country, cheaper it and, most importantly, introduce business into legal flows and in a much more efficient way fight the grey economy. Mrs. Tabakovic, no one prevented your predecessors or previous governments from setting up an electronic business system, but they obviously didn't care. It even answered her that there was room for speculation and manipulation, so during their term of office, the gray economy and corruption flourished, and they were perfectly able to cope with such an environment, because they enjoyed and worked and made money hunting in the dim. Further development of e-business will mean future growth and the development of all segments of society, as both citizens and businesses will save a lot more and more time and money in the ultimate respect for business and trade. Citizens will now be able not only to use their time better, but I hope the payment system will become a standard for Serbia. In voting day, I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38676	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Manojlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38677	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As part of this amendment, I just wanted to say that, thanks to the reforms launched by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic since 2012, the NBS has shown in every possible way that it participates actively in these reforms, and so, in 2015, the law on payment services that it has contributed, that is, created a legal basis for the formation of two new categories of payment service providers, which are the electronic money and payment institutions. Also, the NBS started a new project in 2017, which is the introduction of so-called instant payment system, which includes so-called The "QR" codes, a much easier way to use, that is, will be available 24 hours to payment system users. We heard here during a debate from colleagues that it might be difficult for some people, inexhaustible to educate. It is this law that will contribute to people's understanding of the need to monitor modern society flows, the information system, and those who are not ready, in most cases, will not necessarily be necessary for them, because the law does not condition them, but allows people to apply new modern information systems. Also, during the debate yesterday, Mrs Tabakovic, we heard from some opposition MPs that they do not, as they do not have some version of the banks that exist in the Republic of Serbia, and this shows that they will really be difficult to apply this electronic system, because they have a low level of training in the use of information systems, because on the NBS website there are available transparent data on all banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much. I hope you'll cheer us up with some better suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38678	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38679	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Governor, Article 4 is governed by the application of this law, and I have proposed an amendment that shows that the realisation of the long-distance contract provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as each concluded financial contract results in an increase in the financial stability of users or an investment that contributes to the development of the economy through the realisation of the desired project. Realisation of distance contracts brings us a reduction in operating costs, added protection of financial services users, increased competitiveness among service providers, development of the payment market, technological development and improvement of the business environment. We today have a stable rate of dinars, and only in April of this year's net foreign exchange reserves increased to 165m euros and NBS priorities remain the sustainability of price and financial stability. The most important thing for citizens is that interest rates on dinar loans are constantly on the decline, prompting credit activity. The National Bank of Serbia has worked for the past six years, in co-operation with the government, to achieve all the outlined objectives of the economic programme agreed with the IMF. The implementation of structural reforms has improved economic growth and export potential. Serbia is now a country in which it is investing more and more in the long term and in which state property is not sold into depravity. Serbia is a country where we increase investment and expand business, contributing to financial stability and overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38680	Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Mr. Karic, you're in the system? Yeah. ) The parliamentary group has no more time. You don't have the basis to get the word. I'm sorry. The word is submitted by an amendment colleague, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38681	The esteemed chairman, a respected governor with co-workers, respected fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, my fourth amendment refers to the implementation of the long-distance contract ensuring overall growth and the development of Serbia's economy. Its application justifies that the proposed solutions will have a positive impact on financial services users and financial service providers. Financial service users will feel a positive impact through the wide availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market, so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that suits them. Financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise distance financial services in a more legally defined environment and thus conclude contracts with users when mutual rights and obligations are detailed and demarcated, for entrepreneurs and for all companies, they are small, medium or large. Provisions allowing the conclusion of a contract to a certain value in electronic form and without a qualified electronic signature, used by the client. The law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts will not directly lead to the creation of new operators on the market, but it can indirectly support the work of business operators and growth, whose business relates to remote communication means, such as development of applicative solutions, software, information technologies at all. In view of the above, the law should contribute to the acceleration of competition, since it enables wider use of means of communication at a distance, and thus access to all potential clients on equal terms for all payment service providers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38682	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38683	Thank you. The esteemed governor with his associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a serious and competent public debate has been conducted on all these bill proposals. Good examples from international practice, as well as rules currently applied in the EU, have been taken into account, but taking into account the domestic market. The proposed solutions in the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in Remote Contracts will have a positive impact on both financial service users and financial service providers. Financial service users will feel a positive impact through the wide availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market, so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that meets their needs. Financial service providers shall be given an additional incentive to advertise distance financial services in a more legally defined environment and thus conclude contracts with users, when mutual rights and obligations are detailed and diversified. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 4 further defines the realisation of the long-distance contract. I call on you in the voting day to support this bill and all the proposals that are in front of us today on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38684	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38685	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a respected governor, given the fact that digitalisation is rapidly developing in the financial sector and that the number of users following the adoption of these protection laws will be significantly higher, the first step leading to electronic registration of economic operators has been taken. I often talk about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is precisely these companies that are the cornerstone of the development of domestic economy. The Serbian government has launched a project called the E-paper aimed at establishing a single register of procedures by 2021 to optimise and enable businesses to pass through the various procedures necessary for business. Digitalisation of administration procedures saves time and money for businesses, and the state administration also reduces both time and money, and also reduces the possibility of corruption. Small and medium-sized enterprises that don't have legal teams are sensitive to administration. All that was required to go to the counter, or permits, consent and other acts, will be digitised and publicly available. Namely, an e-paper portal has been launched, which allows businesses to give their opinion on which administrative procedures or procedures are the most burdensome of their business, along with proposals that should be improved, simplified or abolished. By simply filling out the questionnaires on this portal, you can show your opinion and suggestions. The goal is to facilitate business in every sense, including administratively. As I have already pointed out, the state creates conditions and an environment that is suitable to enter the market race, and with the incentives it gives, good ideas can be realized for the start of private business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38686	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38687	Thank you. Dear Governor Tabakovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, among the most important newspapers of this bill, is the following: delivering clear and relevant information in the pre-contractual phase and in advertising, with the burden of proof that the requested information has been delivered at the financial institution, the right of the user to give up the contract within 14 days, unless it is a matter of contracts on the stock market or a contract whose value is often or quickly changed, the right of the user to terminate the contract at no cost, as a financial institution, when it violates the provisions of this law, the futility of the provisions of the contract which is denied by the user the rights given to this law. In order to prevent aggressive advertising by automatically sending emails or other similar means, where the user does not wish to do so, it is intended that such a type of communication is possible only if the user has previously explicitly agreed to such communication. In addition, the obstacle to the electronic conclusion of the contract was the requirement for the user to have a qualified electronic signature when looking for a written form. This law overcomes the problem by asking only for a financial institution, while the user will be able to use it to give consent and existing methods of payment through the application of electronic and mobile banking. All these positive proposals, as well as monetary and financial security, contribute to the further development of the Republic of Serbia, create conditions for further investment in health, health institutions, personnel and provide a higher and more quality level of health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38688	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Tabakovic, here, is already the end of the debate and in particular about this bill. What characterizes this debate is that a number of MPs, quite legitimately, said they would not vote and support this law, which is their legitimate right. But what surprises me with the MPs of the former regime is that they talked about everything, just not the law. They talked about inflation, they talked about foreign exchange reserves, they talked about your salary, they talked about who knows everything. Some MPs, though, not from the former regime, but they work deeply with them, even talking about your hairstyle, but none of them said a single word about the law. If there were even the slightest weak spot, if the law was wrong in a single score, they would find it and criticise it. All this discussion just confirms that the NBS as a proposing took care of the users of financial services when writing this law, as well as any amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services since 2012. So we don't have any dilemma in SNS. The law is excellent and we will support it in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38690	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38691	Of course, this amendment, which is currently on the agenda, should not be adopted or, since it has been submitted by the assembly majority, the governor should have adopted all those amendments that have passed and submitted so far, so let's see what that bill with these amendments would look like. So, MPs say colleagues from the ruling coalition have not said a single negative word specifically about the bill, but neither the MEPs have said a single positive letter about the bill, in general, but no one in any article has said what it is, which is well-being, etc. Yesterday we were also talking about various current situations, among other things, the strike of our citizens who have this really difficult situation, because they took loans in Swiss francs, and that is a big problem, but we Serbian radicals have never used anyone's misfortune, or any strikes, to put ourselves there as someone who's supposed to go out on the street just to help these people. We are truly concerned, and we expected the governor of the National Bank, since it is, as it says, about the best governor in the world and the immediate environment, that it finds a solution to this problem, because it is really terrible that only in Serbia is not the problem solved. Why am I saying this today? Because it won't be solved the problem the way it was promised yesterday, and it's particularly worrying that the courts say yesterday that they would stop the strike will solve all cases by December or when they say so. Why haven't they done it by now? What is this communication of courts with executive authority? Is it possible that the courts are doing certain cases because someone is strikein' against the government and the governors, and then they get a warrant out of the government and you're gonna tell them through court cases to solve it? A very dangerous solution, a very dangerous one, and I don't know why, I don't know what you're bragging about when you talk about it, but unfortunately let those citizens who strike yesterday know that it won't be solved either. You saw today, and since yesterday, the news has been that there is a proposal from the Albanian National Council that Serbian children in Presevo, i.e. all children in Presevo, have in their textbooks to study the autobiography of Hillary Clinton. We now have a serious problem here in parliament because it is at the head of the National Minorities Council Meho Omerovic, who is already widely known for stealing at the Frankfurt airport and we are now in no position to call the committee and talk seriously about the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38692	Thank you. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38693	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment submitted once again points to the importance of realising the contract at a distance. In order for the contract to be implemented in an adequate way, all the factors in the system should be professional, work responsibly, work hard, and this should be a picture of each system. In this way, it approaches solving problems and responding to the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have indicated the SNS, which is what the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and certainly the NBS are saying in the first place. In their performance by implementing politics in a clearly defined way, with a clearly defined goal and acting as a coordinated continent, they speak of results describing the growth, development and recording of the Republic of Serbia in a better position on world-renowned lists. When it points out the importance of carrying out a long-distance contract, I would like to further point out whether or not the subject of a contract is the provision of conflicting or identical services, which is defined by Article 4. The bill certainly requires good infrastructure for their realisation. In view of the fact that the basis for all the above-mentioned use of modern technologies and the application of information and communication technologies, we come to the conclusion that, in this form of business, we recognize the importance of postal and telecommunications traffic and networks, and thus create a space for their further improvement. Of course, this kind of business will contribute to the development of these types of traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38694	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the students in your name and in my name, the graduates of Vuk Karadzic, the elementary school "Risto Prophetic" from Nevesinj who are currently following part of today's session from the Velika Hall gallery. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38695	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, the reason for submitting my amendment to article 4, is the need to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia through the implementation of the long-distance contract with a special reference to the state administration. Since the arrival of SNS to the government and Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic at the head of the NBS, the period has begun to introduce order into the financing of the Republic of Serbia and to strengthen monetary policy. A dinar course has been secured and citizens' trust in domestic currency has been increased as a means of payment and a savings coin. The Remote Contracting Act should provide, in addition to providing financial service users' contracts, and a positive climate for attracting foreign investment and fresh capital in the form of foreign direct investment, which in 2017, in addition to a 1.7 billion projection, managed to reach 2.1 billion euros and in this area amounted to 5.5% of GDP, thus exceeding the current account deficit for the third year in a row. An additional reason is to facilitate and secure financial transactions of a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are on temporary work abroad, thus allowing the diaspora to invest in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. All these measures that enable this law will affect the greater volume of foreign investment and the cumulative development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. In order to accept the proposed amendment, I call on fellow MPs to support my proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38696	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krivokapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38697	Thank you, Chairman. Respected to the Governor with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, through Articles 4 and 2 respectively, the application of the law has been defined in the case of a distance contract, the subject of which is either a succession or an identical service. I believe that this article should further define and what is achieved through the realisation of the long-distance contract, and therefore I have submitted an amendment adding item 3 – the realisation of the long-distance contract provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. General technological development, the growing importance of electronic business in modern life, has also contributed to developing new ways of offering and advertising financial services, which has led to the need to further regulate the provision of financial services, in particular by providing them remotely. This law, first and foremost, regulates the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, while ensuring a higher level of protection of the rights and interests of those users. It is important to stress that the adoption of this law achieves a high degree of protection of financial services users, strengthening the financial market in the Republic of Serbia. We can expect that the proposed solutions will have a positive impact on both financial service users and financial service providers. Financial service users will feel a positive impact through the wider availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market, while financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise remote financial services in the right environment and thus to conclude contracts with users. By adopting and applying this legal solution in practice, we would certainly have positive consequences, and that is why I think it is necessary to supplement Article 4 with point 3 or to define that the realisation of the long-distance contract ensures the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38698	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tarbuk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38699	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The esteemed governor of the National Bank with associates, respected Serbian citizens, should increase consumer confidence in the application of new techniques such as electronic trade. There is no development of modern trade without the use of modern communication funds. Electronic trade is becoming a natural activity of modern reality. This legislative proposal continues to work to improve the users of financial services. In order to increase the volume of users using electronic payment services, it is necessary to adopt this legislative proposal. The trend of digitisation of society is developing faster in the financial sector and this indicates the fact that in 2017, the number of Internet payments reached almost two million users. Realisation of a distance contract will make financial service users feel a positive impact through the wider availability of financial services and a greater choice between the existing financial service provider on the market, so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that meets their needs, no matter how far the nearest exposure is. My esteemed and esteemed colleagues please support this set of laws in the voting day, of course, if you have the strength and the time, and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38700	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38701	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome Mrs Tabakovic with her associates, dear colleagues, the realisation of the long-distance contract provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on improving healthcare. This law lays down the obligation to negotiate financial services at all stages of distance bargaining, providing adequate information to users. According to the law, the user of the contract receives relevant information at the pre-contractual stage so that he can properly assess the financial service. The provider is obliged to provide users with all the rights he has, especially if he gives up on a distance contract. Service users are protected from the provision and collection of services they did not ask for. Realisation of these long-distance contracts ensures that modern technologies, such as the Internet, e-mail, provide new opportunities for providing financial services, by imposing additional rules on informing financial contract users and protecting them, in accordance with Directive 2002/65 of the EU, are passed by a special law. By realising this contract, we provide citizens with an improvement in living standards. Every law passed is a newspaper that improves the development of the Republic of Serbia. These NBS laws are modern, very modern, current, which will change, modernise, speed up many areas in the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Once someone said – Serbia is a country where war never stops, free health care, treatment is paid, and the most expensive word is health.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38702	Thank you, colleague Repac. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mihajlo Jokic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vujadinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38703	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, the esteemed Governor, Article 4, determines which financial services are covered by remote contracts and in what time period. I've submitted the amendment, and he has an intensification to the fight against crime. You probably know what the consequences for our society have left this phenomenon called crime until 2012 and by 2016. I don't know if it's necessary to list all those affairs concerning funds in the AP Vojvodina, the construction of the Stonestone and a lot of other things that concern, first of all, the authorities of the DS. However, just when we fought the phenomenon somewhere as a society, Serbia found itself in the jaws of a much larger criminal, the international one. It would not have had much to do with Serbia if the international groups, whose arrests are under way these days, and the UN-led investigations, had not included leaders of the Serbian opposition in the whole process. You know that one contract, similar to the one in Article 4, donated money to Vuk Jeremic from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin. We, as MPs, are certainly looking for answers on the basis of which the money was paid and what are the services that Vuk Jeremic and the Serbian opposition will deliver to donors. In order to simply serve as a reminder to some future times and some future actors, I felt that it was necessary to submit such an amendment that would have the intensity of fighting crime throughout this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38704	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38705	Thank you, Chairman. In accordance with the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, a user should receive all relevant information at the pre-contractual stage, in order to substantially assess the financial service offered to him and make a decision as well as a well-informed user. In addition to individuals, here, in a narrow sense, farmers and entrepreneurs are considered. With the amendment to Article 4, I added Article 3 which underlines the importance of this law to speed up the country's economic development. The Ministry of Consumer Protection in the part of the law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts is in line with the law governing consumer protection and through market inspectors. All of this is important, because good organisation, the schedule of duties and responsibilities, with which household relations and in the common goal of developing the country faster and making economic development even more progressive and faster. All congratulations on all five laws filed by the NBS. At the end of today's debate we heard from the opposition, indeed, all these previous days not a single constructive proposal, there was even praise, which means that the laws are systematically and professionally prepared. One word: excellent. I am pleased that such laws have come to the Assembly for decision. I wish you good luck in your work. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38706	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mitchin, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38707	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor, representatives of the NBS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point out with this amendment the importance of the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in remote contracts to increase investment in our country. The aim of amending this law is, above all, to improve the rights of users of services, both natural and legal persons. Today, information technologies are developing at a high speed and this NBS bill wants to move forward with these changes and enable citizens to have a higher level of protection and better service. What shows that the NBS successfully monitored the reforms of the government of the Republic of Serbia is the fact that inflation in the last five years in Serbia is about 2% on average, and during the yellow company, for example in 2009, inflation was 7.5%, in order to be 10.3% already in 2010, so five times more than it is now. These results show that the NBS, i.e. Serbia today is a financially stable country with low inflation, most importantly, with predictable and stable inflation, and I am sure it will remain that way. The passing of this law is part of the overall reform process carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and thanks to these reforms, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is now lower by more than 1.5 billion euros and only three years from now. Thanks to these reforms, we have progressed as much as 40 places on the "Ding Business List" ease of business, thanks to these reforms Serbia is today the tenth country in the world at the speed of issuing building permits, and in 2014 we were 186. Thanks to these reforms, Serbia was named last year as the country with the highest number of job openings compared to the number of residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38708	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38709	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, Members of Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 4 which needs special attention to be given to the 2030 Agenda, which contains the Sustainable Development Goals and one of those objectives is economic sustainable growth, which, in particular, points (10) above, speaks of all financial services being promoted to be available for all. It is this law and this article that speaks of this and your efforts to make this law truly, above all, applicable to all categories, and when we talk about natural persons, and legal persons, and farmers, and entrepreneurs. What's most important is that you've opened up, maybe the public doesn't know, one center for users of financial services, where you've asked that all the concerns and questions of citizens can be asked and that based on all these issues and concerns and problems, in fact this law came out as one proposal here and before us MPs, and something that will help in the everyday lives of citizens when it is adopted. It is important to say that consumers must be informed at any time, informed of what they pay, how they pay, especially when it comes to parts of the contract with the bank, as users of certain services, but also of which mechanisms users have in place when it comes to protecting the rights of users of financial services. Now, when we talk about this transparency and information, I have to say that citizens, I don't think they're even informed, especially those who today advocate that we should go to certain protests over fuel prices, that the price of fuel in 2012 was 168.8 dinars per litre, and today it's 150.3 dinars per litre.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38710	Thank you, colleague Tomic. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38711	Thank you, Chairman. To Article 4. The proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts, I submit an amendment in the sense of adding Article 3 that reads - the realisation of a distance contract provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. Given that remote financial services can be considered as one way to improve and develop the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, the adjustment of this area is an important indicator of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which is bringing its national legislation closer to EU legislation, harmonising its regulations with European law. The overall trend in the digitisation of a society that is developing significantly faster in the financial sector leads to the need to introduce special protection for users who are not physically present at the time of the provision of information or the conclusion of a contract, which creates a risk that the user, without the necessary explanations, will choose a financial product and commit to a financial institution with a contract that does not meet its needs and can last for many years. Financial service users will feel a positive impact through the wide availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market, so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that meets their needs, no matter how far the nearest exposure is. Financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise remotely financial services in a reliable and predictable way and thus conclude contracts with users. In any event, the already present digitisation in the financial sector is encouraged and users are encouraged to use these services more massively through modern means of communication by additional protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38712	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38713	Thank you. Dear Governor, NBS representatives, esteemed fellow MPs, dear citizens, amendments submitted by the SNS certainly affirm the development and progress of the Republic of Serbia and reminds Serbian citizens of progress in all areas of life since responsibility for Serbia took over SNS with Alexander Vukic at the helm. So much for meaning and senselessness and the number of amendments submitted. This progress is measurable and visible and only malicious and those who have pulled us into economics and every other solar system in the past years, they do not want to admit it. Therefore, in the case of the NBS, since the responsibility of the SNS and the governor's duties have been taken over by Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic, the most visible indicators of the development and progress of the Republic of Serbia are seen. Here, as an example of some easily verifiable data. In half of 2002, the German mark was replaced with the euro. The first course of the euro was 59 dinars, ten years later, more precisely since 6 August 2012 it looks like this, the mid-euro rate on that day was 118.57, yesterday's course was 118.12. Foreign exchange reserves increased by 375m euros, and we had nothing to sell, all sold long ago. In a period of one year, we dropped annual inflation from 12.9% in October 2012 to 2.2% in October 2013. Over the past five years, inflation has been preserved at an average level of about 2%. The notary fact is that today in Serbia inflation is not a topic, as was the case before. Inflation in Serbia is low and stable for the fifth year in a row.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38714	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bakery, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38715	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed governor and associates, we have come slowly to the conclusion of the discussion under these laws, which in principle, in particular. It is widely known that the National Bank has the role of monetary and fiscal stability, but it also has the task to pass laws to the Assembly for adoption, which will facilitate and facilitate better business. You, governor, have spent seven working days with us here, seven days a day, ten hours a day, and you've explained and defended this set of laws perfectly. You explained it to those who wanted to hear it, and you defended it from those who did not want to hear it. They're not here today, except for a few MPs from the opposition. We are together to witness the impoverishment of the opposition MPs... What? (Gordana Comic: To get countouts here in the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38716	Col. Chomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38717	I apologize, explain to your colleague that we don't need to throw away, and pay attention to their jumping work, and they literally jump in, jump in, make a mess, pick up and go away. It's important that the cameras show they're here, and then 99% of the time they're not here. Definitely the opposition doesn't want to be a corrective factor of this government, because they're only interested in power. You, Madam Governor, can count on the support of SNS and our coalition partners. In the voting day, that is, when the vote will be decided, we will support all these laws that you have proposed. Thank you. And we'll count you down.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38718	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38719	Thank you. Dear Governor, not entirely related to the amendments currently under discussion, but with a special reference to the subject. I'd like you to share with us information related to the Payment Cards Act and to divulge the various doubts that exist in the public on how to make Dina's cards, which will soon be, by adopting this law, in force. Not because I may be missing information about the procedure, but because there's a public campaign going on about why we're even changing the law and why we're introducing a dina card. I think it would be good to start by giving clear information in what way, what procedure, who calls the tender, how transparent it is that it wouldn't just have to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38720	My colleague, Comić, that's the third item of the day, so when it comes to the agenda, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38721	This is with special consideration, in the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38722	You'll have to wait for your colleagues, just like the rest of your colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38723	They're not waiting for other colleagues, that's the problem. Since we're listening absolutely to everything here with your vis-à-vis knowledge of having a session, and I have a special reference to protocol and procedures and sublaws and about this law and about everyone else, and I'm in the dark because the amendments are said to be, investing remotely...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38724	My colleague, Comić, I've learned a lot from you as chairman, but this is not, so please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38725	You have no reason to beg me, because this is exactly what's going on in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38726	When it's that law in the debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38727	This is the law, since the amendments are special consideration.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38728	Amendments with special consideration. I haven't heard that yet, there's no business provision about it, but here's the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38729	Thank you. You can see that it only takes a little while when people really want to have a dialogue, not an exchange of written compositions "The Fall in My Street". So it would be good for the governor to say everything at any time about protocols and procedures and sublegal acts concerning Dina's card, because everything else will be the usual Serbian job of denying something that someone invented and then having only false news, and not making news about how Dina's cards will come into the hands of all the citizens in the country. The amendments we are listening to and in which obviously the parliamentary group has put a lot of effort and time to explain, relating to improving the law with special reference to the rule of law, to the state administration, to local self-government, to minority status, to status, whatever MP has already assessed, that the current law which is under review, which implies greater security of information for all remote contracts, that they will reflect on Kosovo or health, so I think it is legitimate that in such a broad procedure, MPs submit amendments, but I would also like from both the representatives and the legislator to explain why they are all rejected. I know that they must be rejected because, once introduced and accepted into the law, they simply do not fit into what is next to all the members of the proposed law, the idea of investment in distance, but it would be good that, as in the case of a very professional and dedicated answer to, say, conditionally speaking, unpleasant questions, we should also explain to colleagues whose amendments have been rejected, because it is your right, as is the right of MPs to submit amendments. I don't know how it's gonna go, for example. The amendment submitted to Article 3 or 4 with point 3 nevertheless on remote investment, how it will reflect development with a specific view to health care, but I understand the need to share with the public the successes, results and all that is great and good. What I would ask, and this is a personal remark from the governor, to try very much to make sure that we use the sentence here that the SNS has taken responsibility for the National Bank of Serbia, because you and I know that it is not true and that the party cannot take responsibility for the National Bank of Serbia, as it would be good, I am not saying that you said it, but it is repeated in the debate, not because I do not know how things stand in reality, but because it is not good for it to be said in the Assembly that the SNS took responsibility for the control of the National Bank, as SNS did not take control of the Citizens' Protector took control of the Auditory Office. Whatever the reality, the basic position of the language and in the debate is to respect what it says is the rule of law would be good to respect and abstain from such statements. Gratitude to Vice President Arsic and with the hope that now or at any point when the governor estimates that you should explain, because I think it's a good way to pre-warn an entire avalanche of stories about who's printing, why printing and what's going on with Dina's cards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38730	Thank you. The word has the governor, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38731	Although it is not on the agenda to discuss amendments to this law, I will, out of respect for the time of all of us, answer these questions and answer the questions that are in my jurisdiction. The National Bank of Serbia is part of the state of Serbia, responsible for parliament, internal audit, external auditor, the State Audit Authority, all bodies prescribed by the Constitution, and this parliament has the majority formed by the SNS here. There is no reason for anyone to be ashamed or disprove, and in some time we have all talked here about what the influence of Parliament and the power of Parliament is on social life and on the currents and processes that are going on. Yes, the National Bank, like any central bank, has independence in terms of decision-making on measures and instruments to implement the government's economic policy. Its objectives are low and stable inflation and financial stability, but not jeopardising those two objectives. It implements the government's economic policy and helps the government in doing so, and in this sense, the unity of the executive authority of this Assembly, which votes the laws, including the National Bank of Serbia, which, within its jurisdiction, is not a matter that anyone should be ashamed of, silenced or resented, and to me in particular. Why is the story of a famous member of the 9th and the reduction of interbank fees turned into a story about Dina? Who doesn't know, Dina is a home payment card. We need to justify normalizing the situation. Why is the Association of Banks of Serbia, in which more than 75% of the participants of banks we call domestic but have foreign owners, according to this law? I will, if you say stop time, then I'll get back to you and I'll continue to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38732	Thank you, Madam Governor. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Messenger Tian the Davidite. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Davidovci, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38733	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, amendment to Article 4. I submitted a proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in a distance contract to further define the realisation of the long-distance contract. Over the past six years, Governor Tabakovic has been constantly working to improve the regulatory framework that allowed banks to operate in line with best international practice and standards, resulting in a further strengthening of financial stability. A set of rules implementing Basel III standards in the domestic regulatory framework has been adopted and a significant degree of compliance of domestic regulations with relevant European Union regulations in this area has been achieved. The main objectives of adopting these rules are to increase the resilience of the banking sector, increase the quality of capital and introduce protective layers of capital, better monitor and control the bank's exposure to liquidity risks, further strengthen market discipline and transparency of bank operations by publishing all relevant business information, as well as adapting the reporting system to new regulatory solutions. A further strengthened resilience of the banking system to potential shocks has been maintained, bearing in mind long-term stable and secure levels of adequateness and liquidity indicators. The high capitalisation of Serbia's banking sector confirms a 22.7% ratio at the end of March 2018, significantly exceeding the minimum required value of 8%. Our banking sector, despite the numerous challenges it has faced, from the Greek crisis to the Bregzit, remained stable and resistant to the disturbances between the people's and the domestic environment. The National Bank of Serbia introduced five new currencies in the course list during this period -- Russian laundry, Chinese yuan, Turkish lira, Bulgarian left and Romanian leu, allowing transactions in these currencies in the domestic foreign exchange market.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38734	Thank you. The word has the governor, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38735	Here, I'll use two minutes to try to explain to you what we've sent as MPs on page 14, about the systemic importance of paying with payment cards, because 57% of all payments are payment cards. The systemic importance of payment cards means that the National Bank of Serbia must provide every citizen available to his payment account with a card that the National Bank of Serbia has control over in its RTGS system, that is Dina. Neither the issue of Visa is prohibited, nor the issue of Mastercarda is limited, nor any other, but the home payment card is mandatory, in the event of possible inability to process foreign cards in the home system, because of these 57%, 97% of these transactions are abroad, where we have no supervision as NBS, or guarantee for Serbian citizens who use them, are carried out in international card schemes and systems. While the Central European Bank and the Central Bank of Belgium oversee these two card schemes, in our neighbourhood in Bulgaria, despite this surveillance, a warrant has been issued and a provision is applied to ensure that all domestic currency transactions, meaning in cash, are processed in the country in the domestic payment system. Our law has no such restriction. The first card is "Dina" and is mandatory. No one can tell you it's the first "Visa" or "Dina". It can be, it can be processed as a payment system, and it'll have the same treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38736	Radeta colleagues, race at 100 meters. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38737	Article 106(1) that the speaker may speak only of the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and this member because you have allowed MPs Gordani Komic to urge us to discuss the amendment to Article 9. The bill on payment cards submitted by a certain group of MPs of the Democratic Party and we have stopped having a discussion on amendments to the law that we are now discussing, which is the law on the protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely. You had to stop it and let the MPs who came in turn explain their amendments. Why should amendments to the 9th Payment Card Act be given priority? To me, with all my education and monitoring the agenda of this session, it is not clear at all why it is now a matter of all questions at this point, so that you, as chairman, would allow MPs to talk about whatever she wants? Her group of MPs has some time left, it is up to them to use, to plan, to sit until after noon, wait and explain the amendment on Article 9. This is how she put the awkward situation and the governor to answer that, because it would turn out that she wouldn't answer, as if there was a God-knows-what in Article 9. There is nothing, equal status has all payment cards, and also domestic, and why not, with certain privileges that it certainly brings, because it is a home card. And I ask you not to let us now talk about whatever we want and the law that comes to mind, but in order for the amendments, and every time that belongs to him by election results, use whatever he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38738	My colleague Gojkovic, I tried to warn my colleague Komic several times, but I was not successful in it. Do you want the Parliament to make statements in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38739	Keep trying to run the session, and if you try to succeed, I won't ask you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38740	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Radovan Jancic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jancic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38741	Thank you. Dear MPs, respected Mrs Tabakovic, the results of the work achieved by the governments of the Republic of Serbia from 2012 to today, led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the National Bank of Serbia in the field of economy, have been assessed by all relevant international financial institutions as exceptional, with a very high rating. The results achieved have created all the preconditions and provided security for the arrival of foreign investors, providing new jobs for several tens of thousands of our citizens who were literally driven to the streets during the previous regime, and were driven out of work by more than 400,000 workers. The unemployment rate has doubled during this same period and is at a historic minimum. All of this has contributed to Serbia starting through overall development, as well as successfully developing and improving the work of local self-government. Local self-governments have been systematically and systematically destroyed and robbed in Vojvodina for 16 years. Unbelieving is the fact that in the municipality of Novi Knezevec, investment for the budget was made between 8.6 per cent and 12.4 per cent, while 28 per cent to 42% were spent for the purchase of suspicious goods and services. It should be the other way around, which today, when the municipality is being handled by the people of SNS led by Dr Radovan Uveric, is the case. Everything is different in Serbia today. Serbia is well on its way to being a highly developed country, a country in which peace and better living will be, which is the primary goal of SNS and Serbian President Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. In the end, Mrs. Tabakovic, let me congratulate you on the results achieved and wish you that those in the years to come are even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38742	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Radmilo Kostic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Parezanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38743	Thank you, Chairman. Electronic business is not just the future, electronic business is the present and the sooner we accept that fact, the more efficient and productive environment we will live in. Electronic business has a number of advantages, a reduction in business costs, access to information, reduced time to transfer information, accuracy of information, reduced time to market, fosters association or so on. electronic partnership, increasing quality and agility and a series of other advantages. Electronic trade is an important part of electronic business and it, of course, refers to the transfer of capital, marketing, transfer of goods and services, and there is also the expansion of electronic business, therefore, in retail, publishing, in financial services. I think this law brings a series of advantages that will promote electronic trade and electronic business. I would firstly highlight a legal framework that guarantees the safety of users and strengthens trust, because without that confidence there is no progress in electronic business. We also have problems in practice regarding a qualified electronic signature that really does not have a large number of users. So it's possible now that up to a certain amount of distance bargaining without this signature. This law also prevents service providers from offering their financial services to a greater extent, and also that service users have a better availability of financial services and that they have a higher choice of service providers and that they can choose for themselves the most favourable and best service from that choice. These are just some of the reasons why I think this law is good, that it promotes electronic business, and in voting day I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38744	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38745	Thank you. The explanation we heard about the amendment submitted under Article 4(3), which refers to electronic business and with a specific reference to the development of an e-government which is of course inevitable, has prompted me to repeat that I am adding a specific reference to the use of the future payment card “Dina”. We didn't understand each other, my request to you was not for me and not for now, but for everyone, to clarify... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38746	Comrade Comic, I have to interrupt you. No matter what I respect you as both a colleague and vice president of the National Assembly, you will simply have to wait for your amendments to the Payment Cards Act to come into order. When it comes to order, report to your amendments, talk and exercise your right to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, if I let you go now, I would damage all other fellow MPs because you're in a hurry to finish as soon as possible. Do you understand me? By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38747	Thank you. It's not about the member you quoted at all, it's about the e-Government, and it's about a kind of electronic payment being made by cell phone, which is by card or signature. So, I'm saying, with all due respect to the amendments that my colleague has made, because he's looking for a supplement of a member with a special reference to the development of an electronic administration, which I think is good. Is it such an example that it bothers you that I think it's good to explain the future purchase of Dina's card, not to the National Bank, but to the banks, it's up to you to assess. I think it's good to give people information before having affairs. It's not about a member of the law who'll never come to the debate. It's about my... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38748	Col. Komic, obviously you do not sit with the Assembly, so hurry to apologize as soon as you do not adhere to the agenda and it is obvious. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38749	Thank you. If it's about e-Government and the development of electronic communications outside the agenda, then the colleague first began. He spoke very clearly and wisely and thoroughly about how this law should help develop electronic communications and develop e-Government and electronic signatures and everything we lack in practice. Now maybe I don't speak as nice and as smart as he does, but I'm talking about how I can, so I appreciate that you can't tell your colleagues that it's past the agenda, so that's where you yell at me, but there's no need. I'm really saying this out of the best intentions and out of the desire to remove unnecessary speculation about this law and the one that will never come to debate in particular. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38750	I am not going to enter the discussion of my colleagues, Parezanovic, but I know that, unlike you, he has been sitting for two or three days, patiently waiting for his amendments to come to order to use his right as a MP. By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38751	I don't know why it bothers you and this little participation. I didn't say anything wrong or even critical. So, it is good that the amendments to the Remote Contracts Act discuss e-Government, to discuss electronic signatures, to discuss incentives that this Assembly, which also the Government, and especially the National Bank, should not even talk about, should make it more everyday in Serbia than it is now, especially if there are enough of us here who know that eight or 10 years ago most of them laughed when we mentioned the need for digitalisation of information technologies by the Ministry for this and so on. So this is support, with one single illustration of the purchase of Dina's three million savings card. That's all I'm telling you, nothing more, and whether or not you're going to count the MPs, if we think we should count, you know what, it's all in the Rules of Procedure, and it would be good to refrain from misusing the Rules of Procedure, to disrespect each other. I will never, and you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38752	The word has the governor, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38753	I just don't want to waste any time. In the way plastic is made for the dune, it is made for “Visa” for “Master” and for any card. The same way they're pesonized, processed. Six processor houses, no one can condition anyone, no one's job is being set up. Are you asking me to say that this SNS will make plastic for Dina's card, not Visa or Master's? (Gordana Comić: God forbid. Please, let's get this serious. It wasn't fair with cards, it couldn't be, it won't be. "Dina", as well as "Master" and "Visa", has the right to be a card in every citizen's wallet. The advantage of "Dina" is because it is domestic, as the NBS performs processing, levelling finally and guarantees the security of the payment system and does not condition at all that "Dina" is like the first card of the election. Make 'Visa' and 'Master', though they are more expensive, but they are licensed in the country. Excuse me, but could a bank here be operating without a license and have others licensed and supervised? What would anyone provide "Master" or "Visa"? Do they want to be the ones who process domestic payment traffic for card transactions? Well, they have to succumb to the regulations of the Serbian state. It's not harmonising the normalization of the condition. Harmonization is a complete, not a distortion of competition, absolutely equal treatment. You have everything in the amendments. Those who are interested in detail let them read this publicly, that we do not waste time and that I do not violate the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandar Martinovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38754	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38755	Mr. Arsic, Article 27. Please don't interrupt Mrs. Comic, and here's why. What Mrs. Comic is saying, she's saying because she's an ambassador and that's what Serbian citizens should know. The US Ambassador is against Serbia having a home payment card called "Dina" and there are only two payment cards in Serbia, "Master" and "Visa" and Mrs Tabakovic knows very well what pressures she has suffered and the DS today has an obligation to talk about it against domestic payment cards, and in favour of foreign payment cards. Whether they got some money or they were promised something, let them help rebuild those remains of DS, I don't know, but let people do the job they were ordered to do on Friday, June 8th, because today is the last day in the debate on amendments, and it is the citizens of Serbia and you, dear MPs, you should know. The Democratic Party must say this because a warrant has arrived from one side of the embassy that Serbia cannot have its own home payment card, but that only "Master" and "Visa" payment card must exist in Serbia. Mrs. Comic can talk funny about the amendments and Mark Parezenović, and about mine, and about Orlic and any other amendment, but they, people, have to do the job. You know, Americans are pragmatic and practical people. They don't have much time for philosophizing and for getting into some theoretical debates. You got a warrant, you got to talk against a Serbian payment card. There must be only two, "Master" and "Visa" and that's the point. Therefore, I beg you, Mr. Arsic, be a gentleman, Mrs. Comic is still a lady. A woman has to do the job she was ordered to do. Let her do it, but some Serbian citizens know it is a business that is not in the interest of the Serbian economy and Serbian citizens but foreign companies and foreign banks. I'm not asking you to vote on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38756	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Everything you've said to me is familiar, but, as other fellow MPs have to wait to talk about their amendments, so DS MPs will have to wait for the 3rd item of the agenda, which applies to payment cards. And I don't want any embassy to go out and help me in the sense that he's running a session of the National Assembly. I thank you for not wanting to make a statement in the People's Assembly's vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38757	Article 27(2) We don't mind the debate between this and this side, as we generally don't mind the debate in the National Assembly. On the contrary, we think that the debate should be, that we need to get more time so that we can really discuss all the amendments, and that's what we've been up for since the beginning, and to do that, this provisional Rules of Procedure has to change. But there's something else here. You don't seem to have any communication with each other, you in power. If one MP resents you, he says, "You are violating the Rules of Procedure because you allow Gordani Komic to speak about the amendment when the time is not, the other says: please do to her, let her speak. Therefore, nothing can be done but spoken by the Rules of Procedure, done by the Rules of Procedure, or done by the Rules of Procedure. My question is, if you have just been warned by the President of Parliament that you should not allow Mrs Comic to talk about an amendment that is not on the agenda, so that you do not challenge the Governor to answer these questions that are not on the agenda, unlike the impact of this law on health care, education, courts, etc., then I do not understand, and yet she told you that if you do not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that she will ask that the Assembly declare that your previous injury. If you do not allow Mrs. Comic to talk about this future amendment, then you cannot even allow the governor to answer the question about this future amendment. So please be principled. If you ask us, you'll let us all talk about all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38758	My colleague Radeta, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I, of all the participants in the debate, insist on talking about the agenda point that is being discussed at the moment. I'm trying to make communication with my fellow MPs in that sense. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't work. We're moving on. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38759	I don't want the Assembly to declare itself, just asking that the conduct, when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure, be absolutely the same for all the MPs. Yesterday you showed that you didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38760	All right. By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38761	I thank and thank the governor for her answers. Time will show that it's mutually beneficial. And I would like to thank the chairman for understanding that this debate is exactly in line with all the amendments to Article 4 by adding Article 3 where further consideration is required to accept the amendment which would see how the distance settlement works on the judiciary, health care, state administration, local self-government, etc. But obviously, except that every man is a style, what is allowed by some, we are not allowed to all have specific references to the content of the amendments. As for the other remarks with a little gender-and-half demeanor, and as far as the US ambassador is concerned, you confused me with the president of Serbia. But I understand why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38762	National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38763	Mr. Arsic, Mrs. Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in Remote Contracting. In Article 4. The draft law adds Article 3 and the objective of the amendment is to further define the realisation of the long-distance contract. The distance agreement allows users of financial services to access the widest range of financial services available on the domestic financial market, regardless of their place of residence, i.e. residences, which undoubtedly also affects increasing the freedom of choice of users, since not all users can now negotiate and conclude contracts with financial service providers independently of the place where the business premises of these providers are located. At the same time, users are given the opportunity to significantly lower their costs and the cost of time by using means of long-distance communications when collecting more offers than different financial service providers when they opt for a specific financial product. Article 4 provides for the application of the law in the case of a distance contract the subject of which is a conflicting or related service. Where a long-distance framework contract is concluded on the basis of which the service provider undertakes to grant the user a specific financial service or to provide it with more separate and identical services during a given period, the provisions of the law shall apply only to that contract at a distance, i.e. the contract which preceded the provision of those services. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38764	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38765	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thanks to the responsible policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Mr. Vukic, and today Ana Brnabic and the NBS, Serbia has managed to record excellent results in all fields, especially in terms of infrastructure. Serbia thus managed to become the largest construction site in this part of Europe, building modern highways, tunnels, restoring railway infrastructure. This economic stability has led to today's citizens of all parts of our country, getting such modern and safe roads, having the opportunity to get foreign investors, domestics and to open new jobs. Also, Serbia today has the strength to think about Serbs in the environment, so it is on the road to Republika Srpska, and recently after President Vukic and President Dodik's meeting, Serbia has decided to help Republika Srpska with fivem euros by helping local self-government and 500,000 euros to rebuild Orthodox temples in the Federation of BiH. This is one of the best indicators of this government's responsible behaviour towards its people. Finally, I want to give Ms Tabakovic and the Government support to continue with this policy and thus help our citizens and Serbs in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38766	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jolovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38767	Thank you. This amendment further defines the realisation of a distance contract on the basis of which the service provider undertakes to provide the user with a specific financial service or to provide him with more separate identical services during a specific period. The provisions of this law apply only to that contract at a distance, i.e. on the contract which preceded the provision of these services, e.g. a framework contract for the execution of transactions. If the service provider undertakes to provide the user with a specific financial service or to provide it with more separate identical services during a given period without a previously concluded framework contract at a distance, the provisions of this law shall apply to the first financial service provided, i.e. to the first subsequent identical service which has been past more than a year since the last such service was provided. In the context of everything, it should be borne in mind that business in these remote contracts should accelerate the development of the Republic of Serbia with better access to economic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38768	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38769	Thank you. We had the opportunity in the past few days to convince ourselves, through numerous discussions, both opposition MPs and MPs of the ruling majority, and above all of us from the SNS, of which positions we are in. We are at the position and side of Serbia, defending Serbian interests, defending the interests of Serbian citizens, and here we are absolutely ahead of all those who have criticised SNS and Aleksandar Vukic's policies. It is clear why today everything that is wrong with us is being directed at us, why we are being addressed with ugly words, why critics are being referred to, why the family of Alexander Vukic is being insulted, why every SNS MP is being insulted, because we work for Serbian citizens. We don't work for tycoons, we don't work for strangers, we don't work for foreign interests. We work for the domestic interest of our citizens, that our citizens have a stable currency, stable finances, higher wages and pensions, to live better. In that sense, we are all partners together as SNS MPs, who represent the interests of Serbian citizens and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic and the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38770	The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38771	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Governor with associates, ladies and gentlemen, the realisation of the long-distance contract has the most direct impact on the overall development of our society. Thus, any improvement should be a national success, which would certainly have positive effects on Serbs in the region. A series of decisions taken by participants in the financial market promotes a significant system of legal certainty, and this is the main prerequisite for raising the reputation of the people and the state. Only a strong and stable Serbia can significantly improve the living conditions of our countrymen in the environment. The government that breaks its own economic system through its laws, the economic system is the past of this parliament, but scars are difficult and difficult to heal. To remind you of the Law on Labour and the Law on Privatisation after 2000 was thrown on the knees of the Serbian economy. The labour law had only one goal, to disperse factories and throw workers out on the street and create an amorphous mass of people without hope. Workers are only organized when they're in a factory, when they're on the street, when they're out of work, they're a meaningless set of people prone to various manipulations. Such a disbursed company without workers has become an easy and cheap commodity for political elite, their tycoons and foreign traffickers of other people's sweat. This was provided by the Privatisation Act, which was also brought to this high house. Because of this financial policy, someone would have to spend a few years in prison, not because the damage could be compensated, but because of justice and justice... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38772	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87 of Article 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lakatoš, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38773	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, fellow MPs, proposed by the law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, provides protection to financial services users and the rights of users of financial services are regulated. Rapid technological development and the growing importance of electronic business have also contributed to developing new ways to offer and advertise financial services. Modernising the payment system, reducing the cost of economy in the business of payment cards and on-line trade and additional protection of financial service users, improving the business environment creates much more favourable financing conditions, which ensures Serbia's accelerated development. The priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to improve the use of information and communication technologies in all areas, and that is what we see from the proposed law, because electronic business is increasingly present, it is important for all citizens, and it is also a good precondition for economic growth. By investing in the IT sector, we educate experts who will improve the banking area with their knowledge and contribute to Serbia's overall development. Given technological developments, the growing demands of the economy, people from the business world and citizens, this law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts is really welcome and is fully acceptable. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude to you, Mrs Tabakovic, for the extraordinary results achieved at the National Bank of Serbia under your leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38774	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38775	One of the important preconditions of lasting peace and stability in the Western Balkans area is the resolution of a number of open issues that exist between the countries created in the former Yugoslavia. One of the foundations of resolving these outstanding issues must be a very important interstate agreement. It is the Vienna Agreement on Succession, signed in 2001 by representatives of the states that originated in the former Yugoslavia. The Vienna Sucession Agreement came into force in July 2004. Unfortunately, it has been 14 years, and some of the states are constantly obstructing its implementation. In the first place, it is the Republic of Croatia which refuses to implement Annex seven of this Agreement, which is called "private Property and rights acquired", which says very clearly that all legal entities and all natural persons must be protected, the rights they had on 31 December 1990, and all contracts concluded during the war must be declared void. Under the Vienna Agreement on Succession, there is a Standing Mixed Committee on its Implementation, which is made up of senior representatives of the state. The last meeting of the Permanent Mixed Committee was in November 2015 and then the representative of the Croatian Government Andrea Metelko-Zgombić obstructed any conversation at the conduct of Anex G – "private property, acquired rights", as well as Anexa E concerning pensions, or 50,000 Serbian pensioners from Croatia who owe back outstanding pensions. So here it's important to see the possibility of international arbitration... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38776	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? My friend Becic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38777	Dear Chairman, we see here that someone is troubled by the reform course of the government, a stable monetary policy, a stable course, our payment card, is bothered that the government in every segment of public life improves the quality of our citizens' lives, they are also bothered by the efforts of the President of the Republic who daily, opening jobs, creating a climate for investment in Serbia, making it an international plan for improvement and the reputation of Serbia. All that bothers them, and then even sometimes I see them in foreign embassies' vehicles, they come to the National Assembly, they go into the O.R., they print out what they got, they say we should force foreign payment cards, not to force a home payment card, that it shouldn't exist, there shouldn't be anything in our country. They should be conducted, like they used to, just orders from foreign embassies, orders from some ambassadors who think they can teach and that our state summit does what they want. Those times are over. We are now working in the interests of Serbian citizens. Now every day that's what the President of the Republic shows, fights for Serbia, fights for our citizens, and just can't go through it anymore. It can only be this way for those who have failed, who are destroyed, who no longer exist, such as DS, to tell individuals – we will support you, come to the National Assembly, read what we have written to you, represent our interests, but simply the citizens no longer recognize it, do not vote for them, support the SNS, support the President of the Republic, and I am absolutely sure that what we are doing in Serbia knows that we are doing the best for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38778	National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38779	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, they say men are good decision-makers, and we women are good perpetrators. We have proven that we are good at making decisions, and we are also good at executing them. Dear Governor Tabakovic, you are the first to lead the National Bank of Serbia, our Maja Gojkovic, head of the National Assembly, as well as Ana Brnabic, headed by our government. I will commend all the laws that are on the agenda, because they mean progress, security of users of financial services and the entire business world of the Republic of Serbia system. The merits certainly belong to both stability, both economic and political, the NBS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our President Alexander Vukic and, of course, the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38780	National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janošević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38781	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor NBS, not every country and every governor of the NB can boast of a stable course of domestic currency, as the Republic of Serbia can and as you can, Governor Tabakovic. A stable dinar certainly means an automatic and stable financial system, and when we have a stable and orderly financial system, then certainly financial services users are secure in a distance settlement and will certainly be in the future when we adopt this law. On a regulated market, which we seek, it is not the question of whether, but how many investors will come and start their business, and such programmes must also be introduced into practice, in order to enable the development of the economy. Our Ministry of Business, headed by Minister Goran Knezevic, has called on several projects and public calls to allow for further development of the economy and small and medium-sized enterprises. So we have a public call for the grant of 560 million dinars for small businesses, to get equipment, we have a public call of 250 million grant dinars for the unemployed and those who are just entering the business, we have a public call of 143 million to implement infrastructure development projects, as well as many others. I am pleased and proud of the fact that these vital resources in our country have synergy, together they manage to enable stable growth and development of Serbia, so you have my absolute support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38782	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Komlenski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38783	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 4, which is in line with the amendments I have submitted to Articles 1, 2 and 3. I have already explained in earlier discussions the reasons for the submission of these amendments, believing that accepting such an amendment and installing the law can provide far better application of this law, and in particular Articles 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 24 and 25 of this law. That is why in the day of voting and to vote that these amendments are accepted and I hope that this will have support, because the issue of social equality in Serbia is something which is number one, not only the issue is number one, that is also the basic reason why the Socialist Movement supports the current government and the President of the Republic, because it is easy to see, by 2012, the issue of social equality is almost always in the first plan, unless at some point something is more important than social equality, and this is a question of sovereignty and national identity on the agenda. Therefore, this law is only one of the laws in a series that allows citizens of Serbia to really expect tomorrow with certainty. You know, it means a lot when you have a stable course, when the price of financial services used by citizens falls every day, not because something weird is happening, but what should be happening right now. Since 2012, a clear banking fiscal system has been established here, which has brought the issue of finance in full order, and this law, which is now on the agenda and whose amendments and additions we propose to these amendments, will be just another piece of mosaic that will help better the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and thus to greater social equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38784	The word is from my colleague Marinkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38785	Thank you, Your Honor. There's nothing left for me as a member of the SDPS to support my colleague George Komlensky and his amendment regarding it, and he talked a lot about it, the financial stability of the country. Of course, the issue of territorial integrity and sovereignty is what a couple of excels is a political issue to deal with, but essentially, as SDPS, we want to support NBS Governor Dr. Jorganko Tabakovic in her insistence that for six years the course of the dinar is stable and that is a very important contribution to financial stability, but also to the overall economic and social stability of our country. It is certain, and I would like to express this particular fact, that this stability has contributed greatly to the improvement of the business environment in our country and has contributed to more than 800m euros of foreign direct investment in our country in the first quarter of this year and that this sum can exceed as much as two to two and a half billion euros by the end of the year. This is of crucial importance to our citizens, it is essential for the further economic development of our country, for faster and more dynamic employment. We remember that in 2012, the unemployment rate was around 26%, now it is 15%, and I am sure that the NBS Governor and his team will contribute to succeed in what is one of the strategic objectives of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of this Parliament, that unemployment falls below 10% and be at least at the level of the countries of Central and Southeastern Europe, such as the Czech Republic, such as Slovakia, such as Hungary. We have all the potential for that. I would especially like to commend the governor of the NBS on the conduct of an independent policy, because whoever deals with economic theory and practice knows that it is very important that the governor of the NB is one person who is professional, who has moral, professional and every other human credibility, which Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic certainly is, and that she is independent and resistant to the pressures of those most interested in doing these pressures, which is the Ministry of Finance and Government. It has been working for six years, effects are seen, the results of coalition policy led by SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic are seen. In doing so, the SDPS will make its full contribution to continue to support these kinds of reforms, which are aimed at new employment, a better business environment and a better and modern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38786	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38787	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Governor with my associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, in order to link the realisation of the long-distance contract to increasing the efficiency of local self-government. The functioning of local self-government prior to 2012 was exposed to monetary instability, and this instability was reflected in the variable value of the currency, in the general liquidity of local budgets, in the use of local resources without principles, economics and efficiency. We know it best in Kikinda, and we remember that period by economic downturn. Today, thanks to political stability above all, we have put the functioning of local self-government on sound foundations. The stability of the currency in which local revenues are realised is certain, which allows us to make our financial plans realistic. The price rises to 1.1%, which also makes our investment in education, in health care, in kindergartens, in culture and in other things real and certain. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, not only have you done monetary and macro stability, you have also done a lot for the stability of local self-government, and on behalf of the Kickinjan, I thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38788	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38789	I thank the chairman. Honored Governor with Associates, People's MPs, Amendment I have submitted to Article 4. The bill further defines the subject matter of the law, all in order to develop the Republic of Serbia. The government's priority is to improve the use of information, communication technologies in all areas of economy, state administration and finance. Improving the rights of beneficiaries of financial services will enable citizens and economic operators to make the right decision on the selection of services and financial institutions in line with their real needs. Thanks to the reforms, the hard work and the efforts of our President Alexander Vukic and the Government have brought stability to our country. Stability brings us international reputation, respect for our country which is able to manage itself, which is independent, which is sovereign and which is believed, which is a reliable partner to all friends, opens up opportunities for investment from the region of Europe and the whole world, and therefore we become a significant regional factor and leader. We owe all our gratitude for the course of the dinar and stable inflation to you and your associates Governor Tabakovic, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38790	The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Milojevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38791	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, the esteemed Governor, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as I have spoken in previous presentations on this subject, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in Remote Negotiations will bring many reliefs to all users, explain matter in more detail and protect all persons, especially those who are not fully familiar with the electronic business system. What I want to point out at the end of my address under these amendments is an extremely important preservation of the financial and economic stability of the Republic of Serbia. There are no serious conversations on any subject and there is no chance of progress in any area unless the state has a clear vision, as well as how it has the means. Unfortunately, not long ago before the SNS came to power, the situation with public finances was very bad, and the state on the verge of bankruptcy. Today, all analyses and economic indicators tell us that thanks to the responsible, domestic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have a financial consolidation. It's very important to maintain stability, not to turn from the course of development and go in the legal direction. All of this can be achieved only if we continue to believe in the vision of Alexander Vukic and the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The local self-government of the Municipality of Arangelovac follows the example and guidelines set over the past few years and we can say that we have made significant progress in economic and financial parameters. A record surplus in a 22.2m-euro economy has been realised, downgraded public debt from seven to fivem euros, with no additional debt dinars. All these laws we are discussing in the esteemed House of the National Assembly will help us to continue the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38792	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38793	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor with fellow Members, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 4. The bill adds item 3 – the realisation of the long-distance contract provides a comprehensive plan development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special focus on media centres. At the beginning of my presentation, I would point out that health is a level of functional and metabolic efficiency of the living organism. In people, this represents the ability and individual or community to adapt and govern themselves in the face of physical, mental, psychological and social changes in their environment. Classification systems such as the World Health Organization include international classifications of ISD diseases and are usually used to measure health components. Health is seen as a state of normal function of the organism that would occasionally be disrupted by the disease. Some of the conditions of health are balanced nutrition, regular physical activity, hygiene as well as stable, family and social activities. Health is a resource for everyday life, not a lifestyle. It is a positive concept that highlights social and personal resources, as well as physical capacities. Mental, intellectual, emotional, and social health refers to the ability of a person to cope with stress, to acquire skills, to maintain, and thus form resources for resilience and independent life. In order for an individual to satisfy all the elements required to work in his workplace, he must first and foremost satisfy all the necessary resources for everyday life. Health and absence of disease are very important because only a healthy man will be the driver and link of the entire society, the driving link of the economy and all other state resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38794	National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38795	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 4. The proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts provides for a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. The beginning of the 21st century has led to the rapid development of information technology and mass Internet use. Trends of universal digitisation have also been reflected in the business sphere, and new technologies are increasingly being used. According to data in the previous year, two million citizens used the internet to do payment jobs. That's why the NBS has been constantly working to improve the protection of long-distance contracts and this law reflects such work. The proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services at a distance significantly improves legal protection in this way and raises it to a higher level. By doing so, legal certainty comes first, and consumer confidence in this kind of business is growing. On the other hand, the benefits come true and provide services. A clear and legal framework represents an additional incentive for business. Financially agreeing to distance, service providers receive equal access to all users, which is very important for competition on the market. It is clear that the positive effect of the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted. That is the objective of the amendment that I have submitted to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38796	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38797	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed governor of the National Bank with associates, today is exactly 10 years since the city of Leskovac won the first mayor of Dr Goran Cvetanovic. He is in the third term today and I want to wish him successful work, to continue to lead his citizens into a better and more prosperous future. Thanks to the work of Aleksandr Vukic, the Serbian government and the NBS, the town of Leskovac is constantly in a position to make significant efforts to provide citizens with better and better quality treatment and modern ambulances equipped with modern appliances. Over the past five years, all the hospitals in the city have been renovated. A large number of general hospital departments, Leskovac, received a brand-new appearance, such as the building of oncology and child neuropsychiatry, the EEG cabinet, the department of disease addiction. There is no service in which at least something has not been done, and the departments of urology, orthopedics, gynecology, pediatrics, internal medicine and gastroenterology have been renovated. With the help of donors there are 15 apartments. The conditions of treatment in the home of health have been significantly improved. The dentistry is completely renovated. A rolling stock has been renovated, and a large number of modern appliances have been purchased that allow faster and better diagnostics and better quality treatment. Over 800,000 euros have been invested in the home of health in recent years. Permanent investment also resulted in recognitions. The General Hospital of Leskovac received the award for the best hospital in the region that has arrived from the International Committee of Socrates in London. The prestigious recognitions of world business publications were also received by the Institute of Public Health Leskovac. An award for business achievements and a European co-operative award for exceptional achievements in Serbia's 2016 health promotion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38798	Thank you. I join the congratulations of a worthy and capable mayor of Leskovec. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38799	Thank you, Chairman. The financial sector, as well as everywhere in the world, as in Serbia, is at financial and business risk. The risk is lower if the NBS proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia normative acts adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia even though they have a significant basis in Serbia's legal and economic system. The risk is even lower if the normative acts proposed and adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are based on EU rules. Certainly, the financial resource is a key resource for Serbia's stability and economic security. And if, Your Honor, I want to talk about the foreign resources that are greatest in history, and if I want to talk about inflation that is consistent with European inflation, then that means that people are a key factor in implementing these economic laws. My amendment further defines the realisation of the long-distance contract and I believe that in the financial sector and in the general trend of digitisation, which is one of the main objectives and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, IT experts are missing. I believe that in the next period and opening additional places for their education, we will make up for that lack. Distance contracts, of course, have a positive impact on both users and financial service providers on the market that are growing and we need them through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38800	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38801	The Honorable President, the Honorable Governor, fellow MPs, the citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to which I wish, this is the fourth order, which I would really like to put an accent on underdeveloped areas, on mountainous mountainous areas, on our villages, on our agriculture, on southeastern Serbia, because the amendments I am contributing to strengthen certain things in the law, and therefore in support of our villages, agriculture, south-east Serbia and mountainous mountainous areas of Serbia from the government, by the president of Serbia, is very important for all of us. Because we are witnessing that the previous period for all our agricultural producers, for our workers, was very bad. In 2010, 2011, in 2009, where people were in debt, where they were taking loans, and now these loans come on the charge, that the perpetrators come into their family holdings, where there's a really big problem. Now for the first time we have laws that can know exactly who, what, how they want to take, what is the interest, and we have the possibility that such loans can make agricultural production because they're loans, there's a lot of favourable ones. The big thing for all of us is to stimulate such loans through the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme, to allocate greater subsidies to our small agricultural holdings, to give great support to our villages, our agriculture and south-east Serbia, because there are people there, there are futures, there are opportunities, but we need to invest much more there, to work there, to give a larger subsidy there. Today, when I went to the congregation, I walked across the street, I spoke on the phone with a purposeful accent, normally, and I hear him say, "Here's the peasant. A peasant is a man we should all respect, a peasant is a man who feeds this country and defends our country to Serbia. I'm not ashamed of being a peasant, because I speak the tongue of purpose, with a credential accent, because it's the right expression for me. Once again, I call on all fellow Members of Parliament and our government, normally our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, I know that he respects our village, I know that he respects our agriculture, I know that he respects southeast Serbia, and vote for my amendment, fellow MPs, because we support our village, agriculture and southeast Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38802	Thank you, dear colleague Miletic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38803	Thank you. It is very important to point out that this law protects customers of financial services in remote contracts, so that the provisions of the law do not only apply to services provided by institutions controlled by NBS, but also to services provided by other participants in the capital market. The law makes clear and unequivocally precise and obligations of service providers, as well as the rights of users of those services. The law contributes to strengthening the confidence of users in the application of modern bargaining techniques such as electronic trade and electronic and mobile banking. The law also gives everyone equal access to the widest range of financial services available on the domestic market, no matter how far the nearest exposure of financial services is. In particular, the law specifies the provision of clear and relevant information even in the pre-contractual phase and in advertising to make users aware of it, but also allows them to give up the contract within 14 days, except in specific situations such as foreign exchange transactions or stock exchange purchases depending on the conditions of the stock market where prices are permanently changed. From the provisions protected by the user, there is also a rule of the user to terminate the contract at no cost when the other party violates the provisions of this law, then the nullity of the provisions of the contract which disowns some rights under pressure or even by its own means, which are given to it by this law. Users are protected from services they did not ask for both aggressive advertising and so on. The supervision of this law is entrusted to the NBS, so it's a kind of guarantee. And, finally, this is just one of the many laws that we are passing in this assembly, where the SNS, led by President Aleksandr Vukic, wants to make Serbia a modern, European, legally organized and economically developed state in which young people will remain living and working in conditions equal to those in the most developed countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38804	Thank you, colleague Djokic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38805	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with associates, the state of Serbia faced an extremely difficult economic situation in 2012. By an irresponsible policy of the former government, our country, economically exhausted, has been brought to the brink of bankruptcy. The Serbian Progressive Party took great responsibility, first of all, before the citizens of Serbia, by coming to power in 2012. Also, by coming to the post of NBS Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic takes great responsibility. A wise, smart, balanced and responsible policy manages to achieve and preserve our country's financial stability. First of all, by reducing inflation and repairing our country's credit rating, a great precondition has been created for bringing in foreign investors and implementing major infrastructure projects. This leads to economic recovery and further economic development of our country. In 2018, Serbia is an economic and political leader in the region with clear goals for Serbia's future, thanks to the politics of Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38806	Thank you, my fellow Prince. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. (The Messenger of the people throws out of the place: He is no longer a messenger of the people. I have to read, his amendment is in procedure. I'm sorry, but I've got to go get the Rules of Procedure like that. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38807	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this fourth amendment goes in the direction of political support, which, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia leads, which is a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment further defines the realisation of the long-distance contract, and the realisation of the long-distance contract encourages the already existing digitisation in the financial sector and that is what is most important, because Serbia must be a modern country. The realisation of a remote contract introduces special protection for financial services users operating on our market, including those not controlled by the NBS, but by the Securities Commission. This law speaks of the NBS's efforts to make the law applicable to all citizens and to agricultural producers and to the economy. Realisation of the long-distance contract will allow for social equality and a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, so that my amendment goes in that direction as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38808	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Dragan Veljkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38809	Thank you, Chairman. The prominent governor of the National Bank of Serbia with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the many goals achieved by the proposed law is to bring domestic law into line with EU regulations. In this context, the matter subject to this law is the most important EU Directive 2002/65 which, in addition, regulates the issue of sanctions for failure to comply with the legal obligations of the service provider. The Directive provides that Member States are to provide for appropriate sanctions if the service provider does not meet the conditions laid down in the national rules laid down in this Directive. The sanctions that a Member State may prescribe must be effective, proportionate and appropriate. As no harmonisation is imposed in this respect, Member States have provided for different sanctions in scope, intensity, duration, as well as their kind. Civil sanctions, administrative and monetary penalties are foreseen, and in some countries and criminal sanctions. The proposed law provides for civil sanctions and fines authorised to pass on to the National Bank of Serbia, a service if it determines that there has been a failure in respect of individual obligations of the service provider. In order to monitor the application of the provisions of the proposed law, the National Bank of Serbia, the Securities Commission and the Consumer Protection Ministry may provide a solution to order a legal or natural person carrying out certain activities related to the means of communication at a distance to stop carrying out those tasks if it is found that the conduct of these tasks is not in line with the provisions of this law. Also, the National Bank of Serbia will punish the service provider with a fine ranging from 50,000 to 800,000 dinars, in 13 tax-listed situations provided for by Article 26 of Law. Exceptionally, that penalty could range from 80,000 to millions of dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38810	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38811	Thank you, Chairman. This is the last amendment I submitted to this bill and it, as well as the previous amendment, stresses the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development. It is an ideal opportunity to once again highlight the results and successes of macroeconomic stability and recovery of public finances. The results are undeniable and what is most important visible to all – and when it comes to low and predictable inflation and when it comes to the stability of the dinar course, but also to the inflow of foreign direct investment and economic growth rates, and when it comes to reducing public debt and reducing the unemployment rate, to remind us that it is less than 12% today, and in some others it was over 26%. The record is tax collection and that famous jump on the world's Duing Business List, which some of my colleagues spoke of, but also all the other results that say that the economic and economic picture of Serbia today is much better than it was at the time of some others' government, these experts across the street from us, who are here today and not in the hall. For all these reasons, I want to once again support these bill proposals and say that in the voting day, I will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38812	Thank you, colleague Markovic. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38813	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor of the National Bank, Ms. Tabakovic, respected gentlemen from the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, my amendment to Article 4 is in the continuity of the amendments I have submitted to members from 1 to 3 and concerns the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to improving health conditions. The improvement of health conditions depends on macroeconomic stability, consolidation of the fiscal system, GDP growth, controlled inflation, foreign reserve stability, and therefore the planned budget of the Republic of Serbia can plan funds for construction in the health system department. Four clinical centres, the first of which has already been built in Nis, the adaptation of existing health homes, modern medical equipment, electronic networking, etc. But citizens are most interested in the price of 98.6% of medicines being reduced, for the treatment of some of the most severe diseases, Serbia introduces medicines according to the highest standards in Europe. The price of drugs will be reduced, so it will be in line with countries that are the parameters for Serbia. The major shift will also make the most recent medicines for diseases such as breast cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, hepatitis C, but also the introduction of medicines for adults suffering from pulmonary arterial hypertension, which have been used only for children so far. It's a major shift, it's about extremely expensive drugs, which are applied in the most developed countries that have enough money. Also, as many of Serbia's top medical students will get jobs and specialisation, as well as the possibility of enrolling in doctoral studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38814	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38815	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed governor, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, quickly, efficiently and reliably using financial services is in the interests of both citizens and businesses of the Republic of Serbia. My amendment concerns the protection of vulnerable groups, especially people with disabilities. I must repeat that both the speed and efficiency and reliability and how significant and from the aspect of the financial protection of vulnerable groups are, above all, persons with disabilities. It is very important that this bill norms the right of users to inform. This is also important for vulnerable social groups, especially persons with disabilities for the reason that this law obliges the financial service provider to provide accurate, clear, accurate, relevant information concerning the use of financial services. Why is this important? Because people with disabilities and vulnerable social groups have digital skills and skills, but they don't have it, and ultimately they don't have to have enough financial knowledge. It is therefore important to inform providers and how important it is to do so. Why is that still important? Because it reduces the risk that people with disabilities and vulnerable social groups conclude harmful contracts that might later be regretted. Why is it still important? Because it gives them the freedom of choice to choose that financial service that is exclusively in line with their needs. I would like to stress that you have synchronised and coordinated activities with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that you have contributed to improving the quality of life of all citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38816	National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38817	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor with my associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 concerning the implementation of the long-distance contract, with the aim of reducing the cost of business and, of course, the reduction of poverty in the Republic of Serbia. Today we have extraordinary macroeconomic parameters and, of course, many times already mentioned are not the inflation rate, which definitely favours our country's economic and economic development. I would like to point out once again that during your term of office from 2012 to 2018 we have a foreign currency growth of only 0.3%. So today we have a serious inflow for these very reasons and foreign investments, about 2 billion and 600,000 euros, which is more than in all other Western Balkan countries combined and we have around 180 thousand new jobs opened. So our financial business is following the European countries in step, which are seeking to make a cash-free payment, i.e. the withdrawal of money, and that is exactly what this law has to do with much of it. So Serbia is moving forward with modern technologies, with digitisation, Serbia is becoming a better, more modern country, and, of course, a more developed and richer country. Because of the excellent monetary policy and these laws ahead of us, we also see your efforts, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in opening new jobs, in reducing poverty in the Republic of Serbia, therefore once again great support for these laws and your further work, because there are great challenges ahead of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38818	Thank you, colleague Stojljkovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38819	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this country's economy should be developed in agriculture and processing, but I also believe that agriculture should be modernised, that peasants should be joined, that they should not only be agricultural producers, but that they should also be owners of storage and other capacities in a certain way. That's what this country supports. I think he can support even more raising warehouses, coolers, etc. So we wouldn't have what we had a few days ago. I want to thank all those who helped overcome reason and to stop it. They, in order to wait for customers and price, must store their goods in the right space. The state has so far given and should give more, that they can influence the market, choose the buyer and in such a way become richer, that what they possibly lose in agricultural production, profits in the processing industry or storage, waiting for their product to be sold on favourable terms. I've been having severe seizures these days. So, the former regime, a party in ruins, tried to ban one of the farming branches and one of the livestock branches. In 2009, they introduced miracles into the law to ban the production of fur in 2019, but did not prohibit imports. Their philosophy, better introduced than produced, does not apply to me. In my case it is the other way around – better produced than introduced. It's better if our farmers get the money, our fur producers get the money than if they came to the side. In doing so, that MP from the Wolf of Sheik, no longer said - rich as sheik, is said to be rich as Vuk Jeremic. His MP made real acrobatics on the Committee on Agriculture, wanting to show that he was against fur, and another MP Vuk Jeremic, Sanda Raskovic Ivic, carries three coats to the ground. Such hypocrisy I cannot support and therefore their philosophy - better introduced than produced, should definitely be replaced with that of ours – better produced than introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38820	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38821	Thank you, Chairman. Respected governor of the National Bank of Serbia with its associates, the law provides comprehensive protection to users of financial services at a distance. The rights of users of financial services, conditions, means and protection of these rights are comprehensively regulated. The law contributes to improving the use of information and communication technologies in the field of financial services and strengthens the confidence of users in remote financial services providers. The law will contribute to further development of the financial market. It is necessary to adopt the proposed legislative solutions in order to create, in addition to real and legal certainty, conditions that will facilitate the life and work of citizens, businesses and the economy. One word will contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38822	Thank you, colleague Mrdakovic Todorovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38823	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The Financial Services Act, in order to put a special accent on a flat regional development. When it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what was certainly in the first plan is digitisation, improving the use of modern technologies and networking and connecting databases. In order to ensure conditions for local development, it was really necessary to implement reforms, it was necessary to ensure an efficient and better state administration and an effective administration. That's what investors expect. It starts with speeding up the process of issuing permits, saving time, cutting costs, and that's what we really needed. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved and what is indisputable is political and economic stability and that is what they recognize us for and what they value as our result. In parallel, conditions were created in terms of infrastructure, equipment of industrial zones, and the provision of better legal regulations. It is certain that investors have recognised this as our result and that Serbia is now a country with a favourable investment environment. Each segment in reforms has actually been a step towards a more modern Serbia, towards creating conditions for the start of economy and economic recovery, to create conditions for our young people to remain in Serbia and their cities and municipalities. It is an indicator of the responsible and thoughtful and planned policy implemented by the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and is committed to development, the launch of all our regions and districts. This law provides that all financial service users have the same conditions and can choose for themselves the most favourable option no matter how remote an exposure is and that is exactly what the accent is put on, and that is the chance for everyone, and that is why I have submitted this amendment relating to even regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38824	Thank you, co-worker, Turk. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38825	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ms. Tabakovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the NBS has made great efforts to ensure that the measures planned were implemented and that the management of the NBS would make the whole of the policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of monetary stability and fiscal consolidation. The NBS policy is being conducted in a responsible manner, the stability of the dinars is very important for the functioning of all segments of the Republic of Serbia. It's important to link the stability of the dinars and bring them in, and our economy records continued growth and development. It gives greater security to domestic and foreign investors who, under excellent conditions, invest in our country, and as a result we have new factories and new jobs. If we take data into account for 2018 alone, they tell us a lot. In the first quarter of 2018, a surplus of 6.5 billion dinars was achieved. Incomes of 266,7 billion dinars have been charged. In March, the budget deficit amounted to 12 billion dinars. At the level of the general government in the first quarter, a fiscal surplus of 3.7 billion dinars was recorded, which is 0.4% of GDP and the primary fiscal surplus of 45 billion dinars, which is 4.3% of GDP. Considering everything, as well as that the proposals that are ahead of us today have not come across any concrete criticism, I believe that these proposals are good and I, Mrs Tabakovic, want you to continue to work sacrificedly with your team to maintain Serbia's stability, and SNS MPs will support your proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38826	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here's my colleague Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38827	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by supplementing Article 4 of Item 3 which I have proposed further defines the bill. The implementation of the long-distance contract and the maintenance of financial stability provide for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of medical centres. Health institutions and investment in professional training and investment in equipment and new appliances, as well as the introduction of new treatment methods contribute to the country's development process. In the next few sessions, a hundred of Serbia's top medical school graduates will get a job at health institutions. The initiative for the employment of the best young doctors will not be completed, but will be delivered to the ministry every six months to the best graduates who completed the university in time and with the best grades. Also, over 5,000 specializations and subspecies have been allocated over the past few years, especially from the deficitary branches of medicine, and this is an indicator of the government's strategic definition to keep young experts who will become the bearers of the country's further development. Let us add this and continue investment in all health institutions in our country in the form of construction of new homes of health and hospitals, reconstruction and adaptation of existing facilities, procurement of state-of-the-art medical equipment and sanitary vehicles. With their activities, all ministries make a full contribution to the health development process and thus to the overall development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38828	Thank you, Popovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38829	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor Tabakovic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen, have since 2001 had an expansion of foreign banks in Serbia. They boasted and waved about how many new jobs they had opened, but banks are profitable institutions and their only goal is to make as much profit as possible, while our citizens with minimum income were forced to raise enormously expensive loans, the banks were getting rich. We didn't have six or more years ago adequate legal solutions that would protect the interests of our citizens, while developed countries, unlike us, are. The National Bank of Serbia is today solving problems, and their participation in total loans is almost 9% today. Reference interest rates ranged up to 18% in 2006, and this enabled foreign banks to earn one-off profits. Only those economic operators that were forced, and by 2012, there were many, had raised no favourable loans, and this was for the liquidity of permanent crafts. So the unfavourable loans pushed the economic operators into bankruptcy. Today, our reference rate is 3%. This is a record low interest rate which for citizens and business entities means that citizens today can buy apartments at low interest rates and businessmen who do not have enough own resources can invest their production programmes under the most favourable conditions. The legal solutions we adopt today fully protect the interests of users of financial services, which are citizens and business entities of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38830	Thank you, colleague. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Dr. Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38831	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, with her associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this Law, because I wanted to further define the realisation of the contract of this law, but, above all, I wanted to highlight the importance of this good law. What I want to point out is that the NBS has also taken steps with the reforms implemented by our government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that we are really on the right track. On this occasion, I would also like to stress that exactly the Agency Factor plus, a little less than an hour ago, published results that if parliamentary elections were to take place on Sunday, the Serbian Progressive Party would have the support of over 55% of the population, which means that Serbian citizens recognise a good policy, a responsible policy, primarily the President of the Republic, Mr Alexander Vukic, but also the strongest parties, Serbian Progressive parties and all others responsible for such a well-leaded policy. I would also add that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the President, will continue to implement good reforms because it has proved that we are on a good path and that we will provide our children with a better future, certainly much, much better than the situation we found in 2012. I would like to point out once again that the SNS MPs will support these good laws and that in the voting day we will vote for a set of laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38832	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. I would like to inform the Members of Parliament that the time provided for in Article 158(4). The ten-hour rule of law just expired. Of course, those MPs who want to speak, and have time for the second position of Article 158, can, of course, speak. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Radosav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Goran Kovacevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezević. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Welcome, Minister, thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Natasa Jovanovic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38833	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38834	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38835	Thank you. I don't know why it's like that. According to the Rules of Procedure, I draw attention to Article 27. You were a little before, when time was spent to talk about amendments, somehow quite vaguely explained what it was really about and we each had to intervene, for public purposes. The public needs to know that according to this Rules of Procedure, which is temporary and which you still do not want to change, it is limited time to talk about amendments. In particular, there are more than a thousand amendments to this session. We managed to talk about amendments to only four members of the first law. This is something that really leads to senselessness and the submission of amendments and the debate on amendments. Of course, we will participate in this in the way the congregation majority imposed it and we have no problem with that. But the public should know that when you read that the amendment has submitted, say, the Verse of Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic or anyone from the Serbian Radical Party, so whether someone wants a word or not, then whoever accidentally looks at the Assembly thinks that we don't want to talk about what we wrote. Yes, we do, but you don't want to change the Rules of Procedure and make it possible. So all I ask is that during this reading you remind the public occasionally why the MPs do not speak, that it is clear and accurate – because the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38836	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Thank you for the suggestion, but I read the same text for every MP, no matter what political party it belongs to. I understand your concern, but all citizens who watch know how devoted someone is, so I absolutely don't care about you and your MP group. I am acting in accordance with Article 158(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you, of course, have time, as you probably know, for another 56 seconds. I'm sure you'll take your time to take advantage of it when you want and feel that it should and is in the interest of your parliamentary club and your political party. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Miss Radeta: No.) ) Thank you for your understanding. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38837	Mr. Marinkovic, here, this will be mine, for today, I believe the last report to the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr Arsic, who is just coming, is not a colleague Marinkovic when he said that the total time for the debate on amendments was spent, based on 600 minutes, spent, or spent by MPs who proposed amendments, was the obligation, as you are now, to say how much time is left for, since one cut is made, the debate on amendments, which is not within those 600 minutes. Why do I insist on it? Well, because both colleagues Martinovic and colleagues Orlic and almost all colleagues from the SNS speak to the public and when they talk about the opposition, they probably think of these thieves from this decomposed DOS, who now reunited with Djilas, and with Jankovic, and with this Vuk Jeremic is united and then insults the intelligence of every Serbian radical, and above all you deceive Serbian citizens. If you say opposition, then you should only think about SNS. The fact that some Americans and Soros pay, extended NATO hands, that they join together and work against state and national interests, and they don't use, you see, that time. So, you've made a Rules of Procedure. That on the basis of the number of mandates you've shared it and they have it, their right, though, is not to use it, but then don't insult us and tell them that they're some kind of opposition. No, they are the fifth column in Serbia, and the only opposition to the right, which is against this regime, so to speak, conditionally speaking, these authorities, what the government and its solutions are doing, but through a reasoned and professional performance is the only SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38838	First, let us immediately clarify, as far as reading is concerned, for the rest of the time it is not under the obligation of any chairman, and as far as colleagues and colleagues of Orlic and Martinovic are concerned, they mainly spoke - the former regime, not the opposition. So none of your rights are compromised, nor is anyone putting you in a basket with someone else. Do you want the Parliament's voting day to declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Despotovic together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Sreto Peric, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic and Tomislav LJubenovic together submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a FINISH Security Law You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the opinion of the National Bank on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157 on Article 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ljiljana Mihajlovic, MP, submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Ljubenovic, you have 56 seconds. We won't take it from you. He gave up his colleague. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the proposal by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the Amendment Bill, the MP of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of the Amendment Bill, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38839	Since we don't have time to discuss the amendments to this and the following laws, and of course, we didn't have any on this first one, we suggest that the governor of the NBS withdraws all these proposals, because we have a lot of objections to them and that you give us one piece of this bill at a time, that we seriously discuss it, and that we conclude whether or not we vote for them. This way, we certainly won't. Also, I want to use this time to invite both SDPS and SNS presidents that it is high time to regulate Mehe Omerovic's status in line with his merits from Frankfurt airport, because what is happening so far is not good. And it's about time this problem was solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38840	The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Seselj submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38841	Yes, I have, our parliamentary group still has time, but I did last time and I said we didn't want to take part in the debate on amendments, and I'm sorry about that, because it's a dead end where now as goats, the rams on the cabin found representatives of different political options here and I don't think anyone can benefit from that. So there's no use for the government either, because there's no chance of defending or explaining why some proposals and amendments aren't good enough and then sitting there and stating, honestly speaking, the government's representatives, with the governor here, but practically two days without being able to say anything, but only the clean order works. Listening to these amendments, one of my colleagues mentioned the free compositions submitted by the representatives of the government, as well as the opposition who again submits the amendments to the clean order, so that they can get on and get on that train. So, I repeat and stress, it is said by a colleague of mine a little bit, but you should know, those who watch this transmission, and they will be less and less watchful as the debate on the amendments is the way it is. The fact is that in the last two weeks or the last few sessions, I would say, this debate was relatively solid, it was a more tolerated atmosphere, it allowed the opposition to say something. I was hoping it would end so that he would give up this practice of putting up with it. Let's be realistic and fair to ourselves, even if senseless and formal, order for amendments to the first point of the first law, means the first members of the first law, and we all know it's done. It began with a budget debate in December of the month, and it continued. On the other hand, the opposition is guilty, for at least two reasons. Some opposition colleagues, although I do not, of course, bear responsibility, each of them is responsible for their actions and intentions, have inaugurated that practice with these amendments to each member, which I think is bad. On the other hand, the authorities accepted it, and then they began to submit the amendments regularly to prevent the opposition from reaching their word. That's what I said, that situation with the rams on the cabin, where something's being exorcised. What I also further resent to my opposition colleagues is that we have not had the strength to say publicly that we are boycotting such a practice, so it doesn't matter. Like this, they don't sit, they're not here, but they don't boycott, which is a bad picture for the opposition. On the other hand, the bad picture is, I would say, for you, too, because the majority is the most responsible for the state and for the picture of parliament. It's not even a talking room, but it's all about some kind of stage where everyone knows what it's all about, or almost everyone, and then some of the opposition's colleagues come up and try to compete with you. You're right about one more thing, it was said yesterday by one of your colleagues over, that they can't resent that practice by those who apply it themselves, they involve themselves in submitting amendments to each member, or to the first members of the first law, but they do so to get to the time, to take advantage of that time. If that time were so valuable and it was so useful and it was very important every second, every minute you used in the congregation, then the election results would be different than they are. So I don't believe it, and even if it brings any great benefit, I don't think it's worth destroying the remaining dignity of this home for some, I say, suspicious daily political gains. My appeal is to thank you, because I don't think I'm going to answer anymore, although there's probably going to be some time left, which seems to be one, and perhaps even the only amendment that has passed is actually the amendment of our, or my and my colleagues, on this very bill. Not this one, but a later member. So, there's been one amendment of 1.040 or how much has been filed, and that's ours. He's not going to change much, of course, but I want to tell you that it's not always the change of life and death issue, but sometimes a little improvement technically, sometimes not just technically. This concerned the Commission and the role of the Securities Commission. So sometimes you can fix the law. In the way we work, here's the whole session, four months working this Parliament, we also make it impossible for the ruling majority and MPs of the opposition to contribute constructively and to make some proposals legally correct, if they can. After all, we also make it impossible for the promoter to consider, consider, and here is the adoption of some of these proposals. So, order is being submitted to the amendments on both sides and on the other hand, and we do not do it, at least one important segment, perhaps the most important segment of the National Assembly, and we do not actually act, or we do it in a satisfactory way. I think that practice must be interrupted. This session is over. We're in an emergency session now. I hope that reason will prevail, that the heads will cool off, regardless of this hot weather coming, the summer and that we will start in some normal atmosphere from autumn. It is the responsibility of the ruling coalition and the leadership of the Assembly, as we have shown in the last two weeks that they can, moreover, conduct a toleranceal debate, release little or no opposition and control it to turn into some sort of pogrom and lynch on the representatives of the opposition. Let them gain so much strength to suggest. Of course, every MP has the right to take whatever he wants, probably by presidencies, but I'm ending it, and I think it could be gathered somewhere, taken away and concluded that this is how we do, I'm talking about amendments, not the debate in principle, a few months in the debate on amendments does not benefit the authorities or the opposition, and especially does not benefit from the dignity of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38842	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but I will list Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly, for a multitude of lies has been spoken. The opposition has submitted more than 12,000 amendments to this session, accounting for 1/3 of parliament. The ruling parties have suffered six times less. Number of reports: ruling 21 per MP, opposition 70 and something. Certain parliamentary groups of 120 and some announcements per MP. Now I'm asking - who's in a worse position? Is it a habit? Are my rights greater than my colleagues' rights? I don't think so. I have the same rights as him, to endure amendments. What he's used to is that while he's sitting here, he's doping Wolf Jeremiah's offspring, sheiks from Manhattan, so he gives him 31%, and we need him, while he's doing it here, while he's talking, while he's analyzing, and the man's won 5%, we need to sit here like penguins, we shut up, we give a quorum, and they have the exclusive right to speak and no one else. According to the amendments, his parliamentary group has 21 minutes, 4.2 minutes per MP. The ruling largest game has 1.1 minutes. So the rights of MPs to speak by amendments are four times smaller in the largest group than in its. That is why I have advertised Article 107 and in the future, Mr President, that you are warning of this kind of attempt to discriminate otherwise on the already discriminated MPs of the ruling parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38844	I have to ask you, Col. Risticevic, do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the voting day? No, I don't. Comrade Kovacevic, I see, but you must ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38845	Article 106, six minutes, somehow a coincidence is being made, the previous MP spoke, and that no amendment was touched today, six minutes of criticism on the work of the Republic of Serbia, six minutes of criticism on the work of the ruling coalition, six minutes of static criticism, on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which proposes laws, and which in this session has countless laws, countless many days of the Serbian Parliament working, six minutes of demeaning the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. It's just, when you have such an idea to make up for the work of the National Assembly, then it doesn't matter the reasons, then it's not enough for six minutes, it's not enough for you for 60 days, it's the results that speak. The results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are clear. New laws, new normative solutions governing the lives of Serbian citizens, make certain MPs of the opposition today a little more nervous, some don't come, some come, so they don't talk about agenda points. It is certainly the satisfaction of the SNS MPs with the work of the government and that we will continue to act on these same principles, contributing to the regulatory acts proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in this case the NBS, have support in parliament, however much it did not like some MPs in the Serbian parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38846	My colleague Kovacevic, I have to answer you, since you have not spoken out whether the assembly is coming forward in the day of the vote. As for the discussion of counterpart Vukadinovic, he is an MP who does not support the government of the Republic of Serbia and I do not expect him to praise what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing or what MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia are doing. At the same time, this famous story about these amendments, etc., as is known, every MP has the right to submit an amendment, to participate in the work of the National Assembly and should be discussed on every topic and on every law to conduct a debate, because there have been attempts to call MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia and support the policy of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, a voting machine. With their participation in the work of the National Assembly, they showed that people, who know what they are doing and who know why they support Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. Comrade Vukadinović, here you are, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38847	When I listed and cited what it would take or would be desirable in the general interest to do leadership, chairing our congregations, then I forgot another detail, which is to reduce the interventions in the Rules of Procedure, and to allow more controversy in replicas. A few replica exchanges won't ruin the debate. Of course, not to be driven into infinity but there won't be any of this to be done by the Rules of Procedure, and the viewers may not know, the Rules of Procedure can't be replicated, and then it practically turns out to be something without an answer. So, just to repeat, I don't want to talk about the amendments for the reason I've stated, and besides, I've said more about the amendment than my colleagues here have spoken, from the authorities, from the opposition, about the amendments. To be serious about the amendments is seen from the fact that we can't stand them infinitely, we can't stand them too much, we mostly explain them solidly, and sometimes some are even adopted, some are rejected, because it simply doesn't fit the concept, the government policy or the promoter. I mean, anything can be resented by me personally, perhaps by my colleagues, but certainly not by the fact that the unserious and unsuspecting or the unsuspecting are putting up with the amendments, it's just a matter of order, that's quite important. I spoke very, I would say, kindly and very objectively, even self-critically from the opposition's point of view, but now I have to say, it won't end well. My colleagues, to begin with, first of all, the fewer people watching you, the fewer people sitting here in the O.R. It's not just these lines, it's not all empty, it's empty, of course, and the ranks of the ruling opposition. There's more of you, you've had time, so there's more of you right now. I resent the opposition for not being able to say why he's not coming, but it turns out he's not coming here because he hates them coming, which is not true. I'm pleased that now, the last few sessions, running and the atmosphere are somewhat better, but it has to be even better, believe me, I know what I'm talking about. As for these illusions of Vuk Jeremic, the figures and the rest, I really cannot look back, but if you allow me to have sex, so dialogue, replicas, and not to be called by someone in the Rules of Procedure, so that I can't answer that, I will also be very happy to participate and explain. It's being manipulated with all kinds of numbers and it's flirting with all kinds of numbers, it doesn't matter. The important thing is, the fact is that this Rules of Procedure is not the worst in the world either, it all depends on how we apply it. He's not good, he's not happy, the ruling majority has had the opportunity to change him, but also, if we had one item at a time on the agenda, one law at a time, these 600 minutes would be quite enough and quite polite to, provided no one abuses on either side, to discuss, submit amendments and discuss these amendments. So, I mean, the time of 600 minutes for the amendment debate is solid, but not when we combine 20, 30 points and then we still submit hundreds of amendments to the first point and to the first members until those 600 minutes are up, that's the point. So now we come into a situation where the chairman reads, reads, and indeed someone who just gets involved in the transmission says, "Here, you see, these won't discuss." In fact, it's not that they don't want to discuss these things, but simply, the time they had at their disposal. If someone thinks they're being discriminated against, they can handle it, especially if most, the request to amend this Rules of Procedure, and suggest a better one. I say, he's really not great, but he always depends a lot on how we apply him, and the leaders, or the chairman of the Parliament, and of course we, the MPs. In any case, I tried not to abuse him, as abusers of those who wave constantly to the Rules of Procedure and talk about abuse and dignity of the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38848	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, Article 107, and maybe Article 108. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't manipulate numbers, and here it's said to manipulate. Someone who wants and already has more rights than the ruling majority MPs, someone who has 21 minutes per five MPs has 4.2 minutes per MP. Someone's got 104 MPs and they've got 120 minutes, so share it, and you'll get that number. Now I ask you, who manipulates numbers? I'm not an analyst, I'm not a public opinion researcher, I'm not a Vuko Sheik Jeremic, a descendant of the famous Murat Age Pozderc, which I think positively gave 31%, as far as it was in the study, and he got 5%. It's called manipulation of numbers, it's what colleagues do, I don't do it. Loud and clear, Chairman, you should say whether those of us sitting here for days have more rights than they are, than the members of the opposition who have not been there for days, whether we have bigger salaries, whether they are paid for by the impact on presence, etc. No, they have greater rights and persistently manipulate how they are damaged, how they have no right to submit amendments, how they have less time, etc. Their problem is that the time they have is not using properly, that many of them have nothing to say to the people because they are remembered for their crime, robbery, as a group of robbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38850	Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? No, I don't. By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38851	See, that's exactly what I was talking about. I'm wasting the time of the parliamentary group, and some colleagues here, in some cases, are replicating the fact that they are referring to the Rules of Procedure. Don't you think that me and some of my colleagues could wave at this Rules of Procedure and complain about a violation of the Parliament's dignity and anything else? So this is the point. I don't want to contribute to that atmosphere I'm otherwise criticizing, but I'm simply distracting, so within the time we have as a parliamentary group, I'm talking and wasting that time, and I'm replicating myself. There's a lot of you, you have a lot of space and time, it's replicated to me by the Rules of Procedure. So it's just my appeal, to cut it down and it's an appeal...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38852	I have to stop you because I see where this is going. I was rather democratic towards all MPs, including MPs of the opposition and MPs of the former regime and MPs who support the government of Ana Brnabic and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Now that you insist that someone abuses something, I will now read you your amendment. In Article 4(1), point (1), the words ‘local self-government unit’ shall be deleted. Completely technically correct amendment, everything is absolutely correct, just not a single letter in ten minutes as you've spoken you haven't said about your amendment. You talked about fellow MPs who submitted amendments, who talked about their amendments. Then you expect someone not to advertise the Rules of Procedure, and they have a lot of right, absolutely full right. You didn't stick to the agenda theme. So if you want to talk about your amendment, tell it no one is defending you. If you want to talk about what other MPs are doing, it is not in your amendment, nor in the spirit of parliamentaryism. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38853	Thank you, Chairman. I know what my amendment says, because I don't have much of those amendments and you've quoted it correctly. I said, you didn't listen to me very carefully, you're not obliged, you're tired, this debate has been going on for a long time, so why don't we want to take part in this kind of debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38854	My colleague Vukadinović, we're absolutely not interested in that. It's not in line with your amendment. Write it in your amendments, then discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38855	So, the amendment is very meaningful, believe me, more in the subject than when we listened to a good part of these replicas under the company's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. That was the point of my intervention. But it's quite absurd, I just wanted to draw attention to this absurdity, that we are here now pretending to stick to the topic of the agenda, and MPs of the ruling majority of their time are actually spending most of their time attacking the opposition present. The intensity of this amendment was that, with all due respect and the need for decentralisation, we still considered the units of local self-government not equal competence. And here's why they put up with it, not everyone is equally competent at different levels of local self-government so that they can have such an important commitment, such an important job to do, and that's why we thought it was better to be temporarily excluded from it. That was the point of the amendment. The promoter responded and explained why he thought it was wrong. You can deny me the word, I won't even answer again, no matter the time left, but let's not... Don't hide the fact that you're doing this, you mean probably a skilled maneuver, you've actually ruled out the possibility of seriously arguing on amendments, except for the first members of the first law. I resent some of the opposition colleagues for agreeing and getting caught in that circuit. Anyway, I won't answer any more no matter what time I have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38856	Just a moment, since this is about the work of Parliament, to answer briefly to the honourable MP who spoke about everything, except the time, but I completely understand you. It's kind of your way of protesting that your colleagues from other opposition MPs don't want to spend their time. Here, I have a screen in front of me, that's LSV and their coalition partners, that's enough, DS, SDS, etc. at the full capacity of the time given to them by the Rules of Procedure. They didn't show up once. So it's not exactly how the public thinks it is, that MPs here can't spend their time winning the election. The rest of the time belongs to all of us, we have to agree. Whenever I talk to respected ambassadors who come, they ask me under the pressure of those who say that they are investing amendments here, and then they can't discuss their amendments and mutate water, I'm just telling them, show me in which Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament there is a provision that we have MPs that are more or less worth it or a provision that prohibits the investment of an amendment party that supports the government of that and that state. They always say it doesn't exist. I tell them to help me with Parliament's advance work, they say we will, and they don't show up anymore. Because it's not forbidden anywhere. Yesterday I spoke to a colleague of the Slovak Republic's parliament and they all have equal problems. Some problems have all the parliaments on our continent and they have all started bringing new rules of procedure. Slovakia has done a good review of the rules of procedure in all EU member states and has done so, with the only ones who have not abolished the debate in the tide yet, and all other countries have only debate on committees, or committees alone. Imagine that revolution. I'm very inclined to be like Europeans. It's cute, but let's decide if we want to or not. So, if we're trying for the EU, let's think about all of us here making the rules of procedure equal to theirs. I'm up for it. Every full member of the EU, we get rules of procedure and we take theirs. Is their opposition satisfied with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure? Well, it's not. It's the task of the opposition never to be satisfied with any solution, but the system has to be arranged. As far as the code of ethics is concerned, and I'm saying it for the public and for colleagues who weren't there, imagine, the report on our parliament keeps saying that we don't have an ethical code. That is why good meetings are with colleagues who are presidents of EU parliaments. Imagine yesterday, the President of the Slovak Parliament listed five countries that do not have an ethical code, minimum five, because they have gathered together to work the ethical code now. We're nothing worse than those parliaments. We have work to do, and there will be help from colleagues from Slovakia, Austria, because they do not have an ethical code. We'll take these best rules and we'll do something. I believe if it's good for Slovakia and Austria, for the Czech Republic and Poland, and for France, it's good for us, too, etc. Say the Germans don't have what we have. They work on committees. They come and just vote. We simply adjusted the work to us and adapted the work to the opposition so that he could participate and speak, and the boycott of the opposition, it is already a political decision. Here, I say, time is completely free, not spent by these parliamentary groups that do not support the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why won't they spend it? It's not on me. I can't answer that. Let them come, let them explain their amendments. They've got a lot of time to explain the amendments, so we can stop muttering the water already. I'll keep this, when I close the debate. As an ambassador appears to me, I no longer have to explain to them alive, because they are interested in the subject. They'll get a list, and they'll see that those they complain about don't waste their time at all, which they're assigned by the Rules of Procedure. And they come from countries where MPs work only in their own rules of procedure and do not work in the complaints of the ambassadors. And we are going to Europe, so we will do the same as the EU Member States. Hard on the business, nothing in the ER, and we'll all be satisfied, and we'll get some star in the next report. They're gonna give us a lot of credit for that, believe me. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is I who swung the Rules of Procedure twice. Maybe a colleague would've done it if he'd brought it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38858	Just tell me the article I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and what does it say in that article?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38859	Article 108 — an attempt to conduct a session and to point to discrimination. So you explained it well. This is how I get to the session. This is just part of the paperwork and I sit here all day and I use my time. My colleagues going around town, going after the Maldives, not using their time, that's their problem. But here, ladies and gentlemen, a threat has been made, it has been said, this will not end well. I don't know if it's a threat or a weed curse and if anyone wants to change power not in the Assembly, so run away from a political struggle, but thinks democracy is changing power on the street. Anyway, thank you for your need and for the opportunity to point out this, and you've said a lot of things that I had in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38860	Thank you. I call upon all MPs to come, if they are to work, to use their time, everything they are allowed in the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from what is not allowed and to do. We're gonna have a new session soon, and I know it's warm, and I know it's more interesting out there, but they better be here working together. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? In fact, other than the ones I called, no one else has time. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. A Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Parliament to Ruzica Nikolic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ristic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Go ahead, if anyone wants a word, just answer it. An MP, Alexander Seselj, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Parliamentarians Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric and Miljan Damjanovic submitted the 6th amendment together. Parliamentarians Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic jointly submitted the 7th amendment. Do you want a word? (No) Members Filip Stojanovic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic jointly submitted to the 8th amendment. Parliamentarians Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic jointly submitted the 8th amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Aleksandra Belačić and Milorad Mircic. On Article 12 of the amendment, the MPs of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Marina Ristic and Nikola Savic. You want a word? (No) Representatives Zoran Despotovic, Petar Jojic and Aleksandar Seselj together submitted to the 17th amendment. Representatives Bozidar Delic, Dubravko Bojic and Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 18th amendment. Representatives Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic together submitted the 23rd amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Financial Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Djordje Vukadinovic throws. To what amendment, do I apologize? Djordje Vukadinovic throws. But there's no search, because it's been rejected. (Jorge Vukadinovic: He was not rejected, he was adopted. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38861	Thank you. That's exactly what I wanted to say, what I said at the beginning, but then the subject went away. So, first of all, let me commend the promoter to obviously read all these amendments and respond to them, behold, sometimes even accept what is commendable. Therefore, it was an amendment concerning the inclusion of this Securities Commission as well. I'm saying, he doesn't change the essence, but he is some kind of improvement, but that is the intensity of those who are still following it. I'm not saying, I'm not always clear enough and understandable enough, and especially when there's a fire here and there's a debate about everything and everything. So that's what my appeal is all about. I wasn't just calling here, or attacking, criticizing the government, speaking self-critically and critically about the opposition, but also about the atmosphere that's being created. But let's be, no matter what I'm inclined to do, I agree with something or a lot of what the president said here by explaining to me. Firstly, it does not commit how it is in the European Parliaments, I do not always think that everything is great in the EU, so that does not mean that everything is democratic and ideal. But either way, we need to make some of these combinations and look for the best solutions. I, the president, was not there, even commended the atmosphere of the last two weeks as being guided and that the more tolerated atmosphere in the debates was in principle, but I say now and I stress, don't, you have no reason for your colleagues, that we are still doing this kind of obstruction, that 94 members of the ruling coalition submit four amendments to the first four members of the first law. Of course we are left with the time of the parliamentary group, but we can no longer speak within those two minutes of the amendment, when it is spent. And that's the point. So 600 minutes total, that could've been enough that the agenda points are different and we're not putting together five, ten, 15, 20, 25 points. So it could be arranged, I end up with, that when we had the budget on the agenda for this year, we didn't get to the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38862	Thank you. You've wasted 30 seconds. Thank you, and we'll come up with an amendment from your colleagues from the DS who aren't here. They have a total of 15 minutes from authorized and five minutes and 29 seconds from group. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Interbank Expenses and Special Rules of Employment with Payment Transactions on the basis of payment cards You have received amendments proposed by MPs. You've received reports from the board of directors. Discarded amendments, yes, well, the above-mentioned rejected amendments, it's not, so significant. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. At the title of the Amendment Law, a Member of the Verica Radeta submitted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by an MP, Natasa Jovanovic. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Ruzica Nikolic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted a letter to the amendment bill. On the title of the amendment bill, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. At the title of the amendment bill, Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić submitted. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ristic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. All opposition. On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was filed by a Member of the Verica Radet. Natasa Jovanovic submitted a letter to the title above article 1 of the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. On Article 2 of the amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Parliament member Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 3 of the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. How much time do they have? I won't give up. Twenty-seven minutes. If they wanted to, they would explain their amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Petrovic. The total time left to explain this amendment is fifteen minutes from authorized and five minutes and 29 seconds from the group. Are they there? They're not here. Is anyone banned from speaking? No, it's not. ) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 4 of the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Natasa Jovanovic together submitted the title above Article 5 of the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Tomislav Ljubenovic and Ruzica Nikolic. Members of the MPs from the DS Group together submitted to the 9th amendment. They've got 15 minutes and five minutes and 29 seconds left. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs from the DS parliamentary group. They're not here. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs from the DS parliamentary group. They've got time, they're not here. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received reports from the board of directors. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38863	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the opinion of the National Bank on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Verica Radeta, Miljan Damjanović and Ružica Nikolic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, Filip Stojanovic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mircic, Sreto Peric and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristic and Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, Ruzica Nikolic and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mirčić, Bozidar Delic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Aleksandar Seselj, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Miljan Damjanović, Ruzica Nikolic and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Sreto Peric, Filip Stojanović and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic, Momcilo Mandic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MP Zoran Despotović, Bozidar Delic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nikola Savic, Aleksandar Seselj and Verica Radet together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Bozidar Delic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Petar Jojic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 6 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on companies. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law, as well as by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. National MP Marijan Risticevic, by written means, withdrew the amendments to Articles 156 and 161. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SPECIFICATIONS You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, 8 June 2018, starting at 15.30 p.m., as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 6th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38864	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. First item - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Financial Services Users at the distance I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in relation to distance contracts, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – no one, abstentioned – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The title of the Amendment Law was submitted by Verica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Amendment Act, a Member of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Alexander Seselj submitted the amendment to the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Tomislav LJubenović submitted the amendment to the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted to the amendment bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the title of the amendment bill, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Božidar Delic submitted the amendment to the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Filip Stojanović submitted the amendment to the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by Zoran Radojčić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the proposal by Parliament Marija Janjušević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Dragan Vesovic submitted the amendment to the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by Ivan Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Verica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title above Article 1 of the amendment was filed by Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by Milorad Mircic and the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalizing vote: for -one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Danila Stojadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38865	I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Vlad Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljković. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one with abstentions—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr. Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote, in the same text, on Article 2 submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 3, which was tabled in the same text by MP Milorad Mircic and the five National Parliamentary Groups of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 3 submitted in the same text by MP Dubravko Bojic and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions against the seven. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, against – for – there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote and declare: nine, against—no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against it. There is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against it. There is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Panovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Perezenovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 5, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Natasa Jovanovic and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 7 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 11, which were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which were tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 24 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 26 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 28 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 29th vote, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 together by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on the protection of users of financial services when negotiated remotely, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, favored – has voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Financial Security Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on financial security to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 3 submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 3 submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above Article 3 submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above Article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled jointly by the MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 6 together by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 7 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 together by MPs Filip Stojanovic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 8 submitted jointly by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which were jointly tabled by Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade, Aleksandra Belačić and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12, which were jointly submitted by the MPs of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Marina Ristic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 17, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic, Petar Jojic and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Bozidar Delic, Dubravko Bojic and Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on financial security in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions – has voted three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft law on financial security. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment transactions based on payment cards, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions – has voted three. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38866	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of a total of 135. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 132. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – no one, of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 13 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Natasa Jovanovic together submitted the title above Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one of 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Tomislav Ljubenovic and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment transactions based on payment cards, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, with abstentions, voted four out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft laws on interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment transactions based on payment cards. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on payment services After the National Assembly has carried out a search in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Payment Services Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, with abstentions, voted four out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – none of the 135 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, of the 134 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for none, of the 135 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Payment Services Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – no one, with abstentions – has, has not voted – three, total - 135. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Payment Services Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-08-0.u38867	We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – no one, the abstentioned, has voted – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled jointly by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Filip Stojanovic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Sreto Peric and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristic and Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 6 together by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Ruzica Nikolic and Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 together by the MPs Milorad Mirčić, Bozidar Delic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 together by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9 together by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Ruzica Nikolic and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Filip Stojanovic and Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Momcilo Mandic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic, Bozidar Delic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 15, which were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Aleksandar Seselj and Verice Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 16th vote, which were submitted jointly by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Bozidar Delic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 17, which were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 19, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to Article 25, which were submitted in the same text by the MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Momo Colakovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 29th. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 130, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 130, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 53, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you it's article 161. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the following day from the date of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the company law as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Company Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy. Since we now need to decide on the draft laws governing public borrowing and the proposal for a decision referred to in point 11 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15 and Article 105 of point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises its electoral powers and decides on the laws governing public borrowing, most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (Other programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement (A project to support state-owned financial institutions) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing for the second Serbia Health Development Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to elect four members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Now we're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Ivan Kostic, at a session on 1 June 2018, at 12 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these provisions of the Rules of Procedure are not violated. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session of June 1st at 16pm and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
