ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-09-0.u49330	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 138 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs Radmilo Kostic and Djordje Milicevic. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 25 of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Amendment Law, the People's MP, Verica Radeta, submitted the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-09-0.u49331	I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 1 to be put to the vote by the MPs Stefan Miladanovic and Milisav Petronijevic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by nine MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 to be voted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which, with correction, together have been submitted by the MPs Stefan Miladanovic and Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic and Aleksandra Belačić in the same text. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic.I am closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: for – three; against—no one; with the abstentions—there is none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dejan Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for—one; against—no one; there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for two; there is no one against them; there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for—one; against—no one; there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, which was proposed to add the name and the 3a member who submitted 13 MPs to the Democratic Party's parliamentary group after Article 3. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mileta Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marjan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jovovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of Article 9 and Article 9 which have been tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 to the amendment submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14, which were tabled by the four MPs of the JS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one with abstentions – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 24 that have been submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Article 25 and Article 25, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 25, which were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Dr Daniela Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Proposal to add a name above the member and Article 25a. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic have tabled an amendment proposing that a new name be added above members and members of 25a be added after Article 25a. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which have been tabled by 13 MPs from the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Articles 33 and 33, which were tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 35, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 36 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 36, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 43rd vote, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 44, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 46, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 47th vote, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 47, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 54, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 55th vote, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 55, which was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Articles 56 and 56, which were tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 59th vote, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 60th vote by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 74, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 78 tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 83rd vote, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 96th article, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 99th vote, which was tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 101, which was tabled by nine MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 102, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 103, which, with correction, submitted 13 MPs to the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 115, which were tabled by four MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Articles 116 and 116, which were tabled by 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 116, which were tabled by four MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 118 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 119, which, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Verice Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving at sports events, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, has, of course, 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill to be put to the vote by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 3 submitted jointly by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 7 submitted jointly by the MPs Sandra Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – none, abstention – none, of the 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – none, abstention – none, of the 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 2 submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs of the SDS Parliamentary Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 3 submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs of the SDS Parliamentary Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 4 submitted by MP Sreto Peric and five MPs of the SDS Parliamentary Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 5 submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs of the SDS Parliamentary Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote, in the same text, on Article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 7 submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Belačić and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote, in the same text, on Article 8 submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 9 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic and five MPs of the SDS Parliamentary Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote, in the same text, on Article 10 submitted by MP Petar Jojic and five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 11 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic and five MPs of the SDS Parliamentary Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, in the same text, on Article 12 submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – none, abstention – none, of the 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – none, abstention – none, of the 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to put the amendments to article 1 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which, with correction, have been passed by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 13th. The bill provides for this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier, only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the Law on traffic safety on the roads. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Detective Action, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on detective activity, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – none, abstention – one, of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Action. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to be voted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 together by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 43rd vote tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 48, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Private Security Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Fire Protection Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-09-0.u49332	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – zero, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – zero, against – zero, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – zero, against – zero, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – zero, against – zero, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – zero, against – zero, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – zero, against – zero, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – zero, against – zero, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the amendment bill, in the same text, MP Bozidar Delic and MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – no one, of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have abstention, has any of the 139 Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Fire Protection Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – none, abstention – one, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the draft law supplementing the Fire Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-09-0.u49333	Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on critical infrastructure to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 3, with an amendment, submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the draft law on critical infrastructure in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed a proposal for a law on critical infrastructure. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on interrogation, stamping and marking of weapons, devices and ammunition, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law on interrogation, stamping and marking of weapons, devices and ammunition, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on interrogation, stamping and marking of weapons, devices and ammunition. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on voluntary fire, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on voluntary fire in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the draft law on voluntary fire. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, abstentioned – one, of a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 1 submitted in the same text by MP Vjerica Radet and joint MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 2 submitted by MP Sreto Peric and joint MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđa Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the law on the regulation of courts, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 versus – no one, abstention – one, total - 138. I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the vote on the draft law amending the Law on litigation, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstention – one, total - 138. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting amendments to article 1 which together are the MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which are joint MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on litigation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstention – one, total - 138. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on Prosecution. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting on the vote of the Bill on the Protection of Personal Data, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstention – one, total - 137. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting on the vote amendments to Chapter I, the name of the head, the title above the members and Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 2 which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and the 3rd Members of the Parliament of the Parliament Group of the Independent Parliaments. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 4 which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Chapter II, the name of the head, the title above the members and Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the 6th Members of the Parliament's five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 7 which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 8 which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 9 which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 10, which were submitted by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 11, which were submitted by five Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 12, which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 14 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above the members and Article 15, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the 16th Members of the Parliament's five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 16th vote tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 17, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 18, which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 19th, which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 20, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Chapter III, the title of the Head, Section 1, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article 21, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 22, which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to section 2, the name of the section, the title above the members and Article 23, which submitted five Members of Parliament to the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 24 that have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 25, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 26, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 27, which have been tabled by five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 28 that have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to section 3, the title above the members and Article 29, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 30, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 31, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of 32 who submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 33 who tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 34th, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 35th, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 36, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 4, section name, title above members and Article 37, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 38, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 39 who have submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 5, section name and section 40, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which was tabled by the nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group, that's enough. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 40th vote, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Bosko Obradovic, Marija Janjusevic and Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote tabled jointly by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Chapter IV, the title of the Head, Section 1, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article 41, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 42, which have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 43rd to be put to the vote by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 44 who have submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 45, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 46th, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 47th People's MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 48, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above the members and Article 49, which have been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 2, section name, title above members and Article 50, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 51st, who, with correction, have submitted five MPs to the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 52 who have tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 53rd to be put to the vote by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 3, section name, title above members and article 54, which has been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 55 who have tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 4, section name, title above members and article 56, which has been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of 57 who submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the article 58, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 5, section name, title above members and article 59, which has been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 60th, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the 61st member who submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 62 who tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments to Chapter V, the title above members and Article 63, which was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 64 who have tabled five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 64 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of 65 who submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 65th vote by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 66 who tabled five MPs to the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the 67th member who submitted five Members of the Parliament group to the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 68 who have tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 69 who have tabled five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 70s, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 71st Members of the Parliament Group of Members of the Parliament. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the member and member of the 72th that have been tabled by the five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote amendments to Chapter VI, the title of the Head, Section I, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article 73, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 74 who have tabled five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 75, which were submitted by five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 76 who tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Section II on the title of section, title above members and article 77, which submitted five Members of Parliament to the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to the title above the members and in Article 78, which were tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 79 who have tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 80 that have been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the 81st member who submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 82 who have tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of 83 who submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 84 who have tabled five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to the title above the members and in article 85, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 86 who have tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 87 who have tabled five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Chapter VIII, the title of the Head, the title above the members and the article 88, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 89 who have tabled five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 90, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 91, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 92 who have tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of 93 who submitted five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 93, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and the seven MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 94 who tabled five Members of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments to Chapter IX, the title of Glava, the title above the members and Article 95, which was tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments to Chapter X, the title of the Head, the title above the members and Article 96, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 97, which were submitted by five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to the title above the members and Article 98, which were tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and Article 99, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and members of the 100th, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and members of 101 who have tabled five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 102, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on protection of personal data, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 133, v - one, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on the protection of personal data. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, in principle. I conclude the vote: for -134, against - no one, abstentioned - one, of a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Miricic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment in the same text to Article 3 submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Dubravko Bojic and Ružica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on free legal aid to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the 12 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 7, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 34, which have been tabled by five MPs from the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 35th vote by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 36, which was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 39, which were tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the member and member of the 42nd member of the Parliament of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 42 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendment to Articles 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52, which was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 45th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 46, which have been tabled by five MPs from the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 47, which have been tabled by five MPs from the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 51 which have been tabled by five MPs from the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 52 which have been tabled by five MPs from the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 53rd vote tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 53rd vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 55 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 58, which was tabled by the 12 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to the 61st Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 61, which have been tabled by five MPs from the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After just finishing the amendment decision, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on free legal aid in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed a bill on free legal aid. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on lobbying, in principle I conclude the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, is available. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, adopted the bill in principle, so we move on to a decision on amendments. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 1 submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Verica Radet and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for the amendment to Article 2 which, in the same text, was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 4 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Nine MPs of the SDPS Group submitted an amendment proposing amendments in Articles 4 and 8. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which was submitted in the same text by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 5, which, in the same text, tabled five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party and five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 6 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS and the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Dijana Vukomanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Aleksandar Belačić and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 7 which, in the same text, were submitted jointly by Parliamentarian Dr Sanka Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic, five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 9 which, in the same text, have been tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 10, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Bozidar Delic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 10th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 11 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 12, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Petar Jojic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by nine MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 14 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 15, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 16th Amendments, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 16th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 17, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic and five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18, which were submitted in the same text by MP Marina Ristic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 19, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 20, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 21 which, in the same text, have been tabled by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and the five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 22, which were submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 23, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Sreto Peric and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 25, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Belačić and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 26, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Nikola Savic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 26th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by nine MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 27, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 28 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 30, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Belačić and the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which was tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 31, which were tabled by five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Alexander Seselj and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 34, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Petar Jojic and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 34, which was tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 35th article, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table of Article 36, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Verica Radet and five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on lobbying, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on lobbying. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134 versus – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134 versus – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has passed a bill supplementing the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Before we move on to a decision on election proposals and out of office, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), paragraphs 12, 13 and 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on the election and termination of functions and performs other electoral powers by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. Before we go to the vote on this item of the agenda, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - during the search session of the committee responsible and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials in the position of the first member, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. On a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and on a proposal to elect candidates who are not challenged, decides in general, by public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put on the vote a proposal to elect Dara Todorovic, judge at the Prokuplje General Court, whose proposal was challenged by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, as judge of the General Court in Prokuplje. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly did not select Dara Todorovic as the judge of the primary court in Prokuplje. I am now putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office (number 119-3290/18 of 24 October 2018), without a challenged candidate, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134 versus – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office (number 119-322/18 of 17 October 2018), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor (number 02-3286/18 of 23 October 2018), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Before we move on to a decision on election proposals and out of office, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), paragraphs 12, 13 and 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on the election and termination of functions and performs other electoral powers by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. Before we go to the vote on this item of the agenda, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - during the search session of the committee responsible and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials in the position of the first member, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. On a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and on a proposal to elect candidates who are not challenged, decides in general, by public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put forward a motion to elect Alexandera Molnar, prosecutor's assistant prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, whose proposal was challenged by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has chosen Alexandera Molnar as deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Old Paz. I would like to put the motion to elect Marko Markovic, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ruma, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly did not most of the votes of all the MPs elect Mark Mark Markovic as the deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ruma. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mikica Karic, prosecutor's assistant at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly did not most of the votes of all MPs elect Mikica Karic as deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor (number 119-3170/18 of 12 October 2018) without disputed candidates, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134 versus – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, congratulate the elected bearers on the selection and to wish them a lot of success in the work. I would like to put the motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the High Court in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Nis, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Third General Court in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no – there are no, abstentions – there are no, of a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no – there are no, abstentions – there are no, of a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 2 November 2018, at 12 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 2 November 2018, at 12 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Muamer Bačevac, at a session on 2 November 2018, at 13 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, at a session on 2 November 2018, at 1400 hours, pointed to injuries of members 27, 103 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one with abstentions for – four, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, at a session on 5 November 2018, at 10 o'clock and 51 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – two, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 5 November 2018, at 12 hours and 26 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: no one, against – one, with abstention – has any. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 5 November 2018, at 17 hours and 9 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session held on 6 November 2018, at 12 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, at a session on 7 November 2018, at 10 o'clock and 41 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 7 November 2018, at 12 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 7 November 2018, at 15 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 7 November 2018, at 15 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 7 November 2018, at 15 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 7 November 2018, at 16 hours and 3 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 162(1) indent 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: no one, against – one, with abstention – has any. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018.
