ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on construction products and this is another one of a series of European laws, and everything that comes from the EU doesn't necessarily mean it's always good. This government, especially this Ministry, seems to be just handling it to be something European-style, and whether some things will be applicable to our situation, to our conditions, that's what no one cares about. It is obvious to all of us, especially those who participate and who are directly related to the construction operation, that these European standards are inadmissible in our terms. But it's not just about applying these standards, it's about this law on construction products that shows that the government and the Ministry want to introduce a monopoly in this area, so that all things in this area can be put under their control, and if that's all, of course, the government needs to have insight into the entire area of its jurisdiction, and if it's all the right thing to do, that's another question. Here, we have a case, today you will have here at 12:00 a.m. a meeting of the Engineering Chamber of Serbia where members and representatives of that chamber are very dissatisfied with the provisions of this solution and ask, above all, that you Madam Ministers, that some of the provisions of the law be withdrawn because the Engineering Chamber of Serbia is not properly reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46467	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46468	Thank you for your comments, for your amendments, I think 104 amendments have been made to the SRS on the proposal of this law. I think it's very important that we have this law, we haven't had it yet. You said in one of the sentences, I would like to respond, that the law provides for standards that can never be applied, exactly the opposite of the law. The law just provides for standards that can be applied, everything is gradually applied, and it's important that we settle this area. It is very important that we know what and what quality construction products appear on the market. Some of the countries next to us, or all the countries next to us, have arranged it all, and we haven't done it yet. I don't know how you got to the Engineering Chamber, but I want to inform you that the only interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the Engineering Chamber, is to preserve the profession, and it can't afford to keep the privileges and money clearly circulating among a small number of people in the Engineering Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46469	Thank you. You have no right to a replica, colleague Saviæ. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic, the area of construction for the SRS is of paramount importance. At this session there are ten laws that you have proposed, we expected that the solution to the problem in that area will be treated more significantly and in a good way solved. But it's absolutely not like that. The situation in construction is complicated, and it's been a problem since World War II, and it seems to me that you've fried my soup when it comes to this area and that's why the SRS requires the government to take you out of that place. You had no intention of helping construction producers in Serbia, you preferred this regulation to fit EU requirements. The proof of this is 283 pages, 68 pages applies to this law, so I'm going to return this to you personally or to the service to hand over what is not necessary, which has nothing to do with this problem and the standards in construction products. I also suggested that the SRS of course insists that this law be free of excessive burdens by the EU, and that its title is – the law on products to be used in construction, construction products and residential buildings, although you in some laws, in the Law on Planning and Construction, treat in a completely different way what a residential building is compared to the laws that should have settled housing issues under somewhat more favourable conditions when it comes to workers working in the area of security. This is how you try to explain that someone is for certain privileges, so I think that first of all you use the privileges that a minister in the government may use, and it will need a lot of different payments, licenses, taxis, is the essence that certain companies that have now been able to do business in these conditions in the area of construction in Serbia, put under control of you as a ministry or a SNS, it's quite all the same, but little is left room for those who want to do something, to advance the area in building materials, because you, Madam Minister, do not allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46471	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46472	For your information, first of all, we are using absolutely all our standards, plus, we are slowly harmonizing with EU standards. What we do, among other things, is that our producers can go to a foreign market and place their construction products. It's also one of the reasons for the existence of one of these laws, because so far there have been huge problems and it has not been possible. I believe that you love your country and that you want our construction firms to develop. The data says exactly the opposite of everything you've said so far and whether construction has been destroyed in the past four years or has been developing, whether the share of construction has grown in GDP or has fallen, has been growing more precisely, whether the situation in the construction industry is better – is whether the wages in construction are growing – they are growing. So I'd like you to use your arguments. I wouldn't comment on all the other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46473	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Perry. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46474	I warn you at the beginning of today's work on Article 116, and please take care, Mr Arsic, of the behaviour of Zorana Mihajlović. Her comments that she hopes that we love our country, we Serbian radicals, unlike her, love our country and not mentor Kyle Scott like her, and don't let her insult the MPs any more in any way. What does it mean that what we're saying isn't arguments? What argument did she make? Please make sure that the minister uses the opportunity in his two minutes to answer with an argument, that he argued that some amendment for her, as Minister and Ministry and for the Government, is not acceptable. Let her personal impressions leave for her secret encounters with Scott. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46475	I ask all participants in the debate to comply with these rules that you have just said to your colleagues, Radet. So, the same thing that applies to ministers is true of the MPs. In the discussion, we are completely equal. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) No, thank you very much. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46476	The amendments of the Serbian Radical Party are more aimed at taking advantage of this minimal possibility of business, in order to deliver their opinion on the proposed laws. The public should be clear that standardisation is always justified when it comes to quality, when it comes to the market. The public here needs to know what the other side of that medal is. The other side of the medal is that the current state of business and the manufacturer, specifically here, of construction material is not in the situation, not technologically, technically, nor financially at that level to be able to reach the so-called so-called in about two to four years. European quality level. This is where Zorana Mihajlovic serves the already seen marifettes. We've seen this from God Djelic. Boža Djelic used this same thing, by saying instead of rewarding me, instead of complimenting me, you say "God's Derikoza", you disgust me, you call me "the Duke of 10,000" etc., Tid. What happens when it comes to trying to apply these laws, or the adoption of these standards, has already been seen several times in the world. It's described in a book by a man named John Perkins. He wrote a book entitled "Economic Killers". In order for the economy in the area of construction to reach the level of European standards, huge investments must be made, not only in production, but in the system of control. In order to avoid delusions, Serbia before had this kind of temptation, which was the adoption of ISO standards, ISO 9000 etc., 9011, 9012. All meant adopting these standards, improving technological production and buying additional new equipment. There is never a standard introduced that the country, in this case, Serbia, could apply much of the technology it has. It is always in the name of quality, in the name of the possibility of increasing GDP, in the name of going to a foreign market, it is always a set-up with that, and the background of everything is buying new equipment, new investments. There is something that is connected, and the president of the SRS parliamentary group spoke about Bechtel. Take it, read it, wherever this company appears the same order of things went, there was first standardisation, so in that standardisation you'll see that even the ministry suggests that in the area of cement production... It's already a European standard. Why? Because cementers are already owned by foreign companies. In the area of armored concrete. Why? Because armored concrete is produced by those owned by foreign companies. The various areas where standards have been achieved are already foreign companies, and where domestic economy could possibly have some chance it is not the EU market. To be clear, domestic production will not be in the next two to four years, but in many years it will not be competitive in the Western European market. The only thing that can be done is that in this plan and project of domestic construction, domestic production in the area of construction finds its chance, not to go with additional costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46477	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46478	I don't think I know what these projections are based on, because the projections that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry I run say are completely different. These projections were made according to all data from the Republic Statistics Institute, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the construction product production section. They, among other things, are the ones who took part and asked for this area to be arranged. Therefore, these projections that four years will not be our company, i.e. the production of construction products, are absolutely not accurate. On the contrary, the number one reason why we are working and why we put a bill like this before you is to fix this area and enable, on the one hand, to increase the safety of construction products that are being built in, and on the other hand to provide and enable our companies to be placed on a foreign market. So that, among other things, you said that they are neither ready financially nor technically, etc., you are also wrong, because I repeat once again, the section of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for the Production of Construction Products has initiated, among other things, the adoption of this law. All are consulted, all partners, as is usually the custom: the Ministry of Economy and Trade, the Institute of Standardisation, the cement industry of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the IMS Institute. So, all of them were involved in defining this law together. The government of the Republic of Serbia conceived this law, adopted at a session, put it ahead of MPs, because we are sure that this can only allow for further development of our businesses. We're interested in our companies developing. Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46479	You have no right, colleague Mircic. Milorad Mircic throws. You have rights, like all other MPs. Madam Minister replied... (Milorad Mircic: By amendment. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46480	Look, all of this you've listed can be put in the same plane. When it comes to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce, we have repeatedly convinced ourselves that we can't trust each other. At the head of the Chamber of Commerce is a man who was directly brought by the German ambassador to that post, and that brought him by hand, never in his life worked anywhere in the economy, or at least I wasn't in a situation and my colleagues to see if he had any experience. As for this recommendation, look, you have to work by respecting the reality that is in Serbia. You have an example in your proposal, an explanation of your proposal that, for example, in the standardisation of curbs, you pay more attention to the flexibility, flexibility of these curbs, than to the temperature conditions of treatment of these curbs, or when the destruction of materials of which the curbs are made. You don't understand one thing. You don't understand that it's the one who produces, who has that quality of material, and this is what I'm telling you, not only on the basis of knowledge, but also experience. Just remember, dear colleagues, the fast track projects that were projected through Serbia in earlier years. The biggest fight in Europe was between the French and the Germans, when it comes to high-speed railways. You know why? Only because of the quality of the tracks the trains are going to take, because the German standard is so-called. “faud de” predicted a different structure of these materials, and we are, unlike the French, who are leading when it comes to high-speed railways, as the state was qualified perhaps those auxiliary facilities to work on high-speed railways. You here have in the bill of law profiles that are built into construction, tiny grain structures. Tell me the factory in Serbia that produces such profiles, which produces that fine grain structure steel. Just tell the factory that's in Serbia. All standards are clearly defined, they refer to those leading in certain productions, which is Germany, France and the EU's leading countries. Nothing is for Serbia, as is for many countries in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46481	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46482	Thank you, Chairman. On the proposal for a law on construction products, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment proposing that the title be changed, so that we would then have the product law and the conditions of the manufacturing process of the construction product. We have submitted this amendment because we believe that by accepting it, there would be a precision of the title of the proposed law. We have been given an explanation from the legislator of this law that the most important reason for its adoption is the need for the general regulation to regulate the placing on the construction product market, which has been done so far. In fact, this was the basis for the SRS parliamentary group to adopt an amendment and propose a different name for this bill. Whether the applicant stated that in order to ensure standardisation of construction products and safety on the market only by placing on the market construction products which are suitable for the intended use, i.e. they have characteristics that enable the facilities to be built in to meet the essential requirements. This law contains technical and other requirements to ensure the protection, safety and health of people, the protection of animals, plants and the environment, the protection of consumers and other users and the protection of the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of all investors. If the proposer would consider these allegations, the SRS parliamentary group is of the opinion that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46483	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46484	By coming to the power of the SNS in 2013, few of them remember, I believe you don't remember Mr Arsic, the government of the Republic of Serbia has brought in a special programme and formed a team to save construction in Serbia. Zorana Mihajlovic was not a building minister at the time, and the big problem is, in fact, for all the people of this profession, that we do not have a special ministry for this area. What people would say is, place everything in her ministry, and mix up grandmothers and frogs, it's just amazing, because people in the profession, and that's also part of the speech of counterpart Mircic, who is right, especially from the Serbian Building Chamber, say that this law that is the condition of the EU in which Serbia, we are never going to enter, will also bring problems to small businesses in Serbia. In order to achieve standardisation of construction products in the way this law, which is not an epochal work of this ministry, but a prescribed legal project that other countries have previously adopted, will find small businesses in Serbia in an extremely difficult position. Here's why. They need to have new investments in order to adapt to all those standards that are called the law. In the end, it is not possible for all small producers in Serbia, who knows how many there are, because they are decimated at the start because of the impact of competition from foreign companies. It's enough to look back at how many years, for companies and for people, for people from the profession who lost their jobs in once famous construction companies, that they started some of their own little business. We don't have to name these big companies in Serbia that manufacture construction materials. Now you have one company that, I'm not going to name it, cooperates exclusively with Germany and it has its standards, but this company accepts, and the company deals with steel products. There are over several thousand, perhaps over 10,000 items in steel, but these standards which are EU standards that will prescribe and that verification is given by this body that will be formed, and that all these smaller companies that will not be able to meet these very standards, because they need to invest, and they are barely maintaining this ongoing production, because construction in Serbia is in an extremely difficult situation. It began to collapse by coming DOS to power and it's getting worse and worse. You used to have when "Comgrap" was a leading firm in our country, 70,000 construction operatives, and today they're going and looking for arrest somewhere abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46485	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46486	Just one little correction so there's no confusion. Not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia. You're not right about these small producers at all. On the contrary, the matter is completely different. With this new law on construction products, they are otherwise called micro-legislators and it is precisely for these micro-legislators that the process will be simplified and it will be much simpler in general to produce and to control quality, and everything else I would really not comment on. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46487	You have no right to be a colleague. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46488	Thank you. This law, like all previous ones defended by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic here, is extremely bad. Let us take an example of the Houseship Act, and it has been almost a year, it has not been brought to life, nor can it be brought to life, or only problems are created in the field. I'll remind you one thing, it's not the biggest mistake and the biggest thing that's wrong is that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic was here a few days ago brutally false and replicating SRS MPs, I quote, she said – That you were present, your boss and I discussed the issue of the law with arguments. We have a partial truth here, and that is that Professor Vojislav Seselj was really making arguments about this law... (President: Do not convince us during the session, but about the amendment. ) While Minister Zorana Mihajlovic presented incredible lies, she showed ignorance, the elemental jurisdiction of the state apparatus, which is part of it. It was about destroying the homes of Tomislav Nikolic and for the sake of the public and the administration for the sake of the law, we should say that the Secretariat for Legalisation, which is under the rule of the city of Belgrade, Mrs Mihajlovic, which is governed by your SNS, says that as soon as someone submitted the application for legalisation, is protected from destruction, until your Secretariat for legalisation brings a solution to the contrary. So it's a question for Goran Vesic and the city administration, not for the municipality of Novi Belgrade, and that we didn't want to tear down illegally built cottages, because you and your Secretariat defend the cottages of Tomislav Nikolic, as well as many others. Tell the public here today, if you don't want to, that we're breaking the law. I'll remind you that you did it in Herzegovina, and where Serbian radicals are in power, they certainly won't let it crash that way. In order to tear down Tom's cottages, you must first reach a conclusion, then until you reach a conclusion in the Secretariat for Legalization, do not embarrass yourself with such statements, as I have said elemental ignorance and disabling the public in Serbia. It's not your first time, and it's just that SRS President Vojislav Seselj has made all the arguments about how one serious state should function and how he will thus show and fight to fight corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46489	Following the amendment, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46490	First of all, you said that if I was well informed, we started talking first of all about amendments to the Construction Products Act. You said that the law was bad, I didn't get a chance to hear what was really wrong with that law, but among other things, you mentioned the House Act that you say he didn't live, so for your information, if you don't know and how he lived. So 40,169 registered housing communities, 825 professional managers, these are people who were at the National Employment Service and who were thus trained and got their job. Just that, when you say so, let me explain. And I'm really trying very hard not to answer any of the other things and the comments you're saying, and they're not about the law, and that's how it's gonna stay. (Miljan Damjanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46491	You have no right, pal. Only statistics on the application of the law have been provided. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, colleagues of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46492	It's an interesting way of thinking that you're having a debate today, and I warn you of Article 27, that you have to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and that this applies to everyone present here. It is obvious to you that you will not give anyone the right to reply, and after each of these answers, former Zorana Mihajlović to the MPs, there was a place of replica. Replica, Mr. Arsic, does not mean fight, does not mean insult, means exchange of arguments. If the minister makes a political point, and if the minister talks about the law, he says statistics on the House Bill, then the MP has the right to tell her that it's just statistical data that has nothing to do with reality, that miracles happen to these managers in buildings, not only in Belgrade, but in all of Serbia, that it's true that the building managers in 90% of the cases are SNS activists, that it's true that they harass the tenants, that people don't know what they're going to do because they're being imposed on them by you and such managers. So if that's how you want to protect Zorana Mihajlovic from the MPs, you're wrong about tactics. And if she keeps acting like that and you help her with it, then we'll be looking at the Rules of Procedure all day long, and maybe you'll think about it, like it was in the last day of the debate, when you won't let me do the replica, so you'll interrupt the session so there won't be any replicas, then we'll be looking all day to get her out of the session, and the government will send some minister who will treat the MPs with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46493	My colleague Radeta, I must answer you. Article 104, which regulates the right to replica, says – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended about a National MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. So none of these conditions have been met. (The Faith of Radeta: How do you know? ) None, and colleagues of Radeta, as you well know, ask colleague Damjanović not to throw away, is currently not the topic of the living order of the House Act. The People's Messenger, the Witch of Radeta, throws it away. I don't have any problem with that. So, if I let a fellow MP mention the House Bill, he could immediately say everything you said in that discussion, rather than expect the right to a replica to extend his discussion. The minister came forward and gave only statistics. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure? Please, just yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46494	I said, Arsic, follow the session, I said. Ask the secretary what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46495	We're moving on with the debate. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46496	The SRS parliamentary group submitted a series of amendments to the draft law on construction products. With the amendment that I have submitted to the title of the bill, I propose to amend the title of the bill so that it reads – Proposal for a law on products for construction work. With these and the other amendments we submitted, we wanted at least in a technical way to complete the law. However, the view of the SRS is that this law is not good enough, because you are making it according to the EU dictatorship and intending to comply with EU standards and best practice, which does not necessarily have to be the best solution for us here in Serbia. However, a much bigger problem than the text of this law and other laws in the same area, for us Serbian radicals, is the question of how will these laws be implemented in practice? We believe that Resolute Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is not doing his job adequately and professionally enough, because of the fact that she is an American man, a member of the Trilateral Commission, and someone who invites the US ambassador to his own glory, is our view that she cannot adequately represent the interests of Serbian citizens. We had this opportunity recently to see when the minister remained without a statement from the US ambassador that Kosovo is an independent state, and in a later explanation, she said she was left behind because she was at a meeting that agreed on the construction of the Cačak highway – Kruševac, and the value of the job is 800m euros. For us from the SRS, the face of Serbian citizens and national pride has no price, and we believe that it is much more important in every situation to react and condemn those who distribute Serbia's territory than to shut up to end a business with a firm that has already been deeply compromised and which has already been banned in the countries of the region, i.e. the suspension of work due to a number of abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46497	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46498	Thank you for your opinion. I understand that you are against EU standards because you are against the EU and that is a completely legitimate political stance. But, again, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has one of its strategic postulates, which is to go towards the EU, not at all costs, especially when we talk about the area of standards. Therefore, this law is prepared in such a way that any type of compliance with EU standards is gradual and we are going first and foremost to enable our construction companies to work, i.e. to make our construction producers as competitive as possible. Now, as far as other comments go, I'd just like you to tell me what the amendment is about? Where did you read "Bechtel", where you read everything else, simply so that I could answer you? I'd be happy to answer if there are any amendments, if not here, then we'll go to a press conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46499	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46500	Mr. Arsic, here at 11.05 p.m., we warn you for the second time that, in accordance with Articles 27 and 32, continue to hold a session in the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we will really get into trouble next time, we will report to the Rules of Procedure. We have just seen through the insolence and insolence of Zorana Mihajlović that she tried to lead the session for you. Whether some MP was talking about something she doesn't like or not at the moment is not a topic, it's a job for you, Mr Arsic, who now holds the presidency, and not that she's holding sermons to the MPs they're talking about, whether it's the House Act, whether it's something else, whether it's her manipulation and machination, along with the American ambassador, and bringing the Bechtel firm for big money. I have to re-express, remind you that in 2004, in Croatia, one under public pressure, the minister had to resign because he was scurrying with Bechtel, the same with the help of the US ambassador. So, whether Ms. Belačić's MP, Miljan Damjanovic, or someone third to speak one way or another, it is not Zorana Mihajlovic's job, but the chairman of the National Assembly, which she will never be, and it is high time and that you replace her from the post of minister in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46501	First, let me answer my colleague Jovanovic, since you went to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here is a question to ask – are you sure that I should meet your request and that MPs are exclusively talking about their amendment? That's how we understand it, and I think everyone else understood it that way. So, the minister just said he couldn't answer the question the MP referred to because he didn't have a precise question. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting for damage to the Rules of Procedure, only yes or no, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46502	I don't know what to say when you don't understand, it's been so long for you to understand that the minister has broken the Rules of Procedure and that he has to act like the other participants. So one warning, another warning, and the third is to take it away from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46503	By amendment, MP Aleksandra Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46504	Dear Chairman, all of us in the SRS here represent the citizens of Serbia who voted for us in the previous elections. This means that through our discussion, we present the views of Serbian citizens. If our position is that the resolution minister is not doing his job well and that he should not remain in office, then it is absolutely unnecessary for us here to talk about points, commas and other changes that we have made to the amendments. We, from the SRS, ladies and gentlemen, unlike certain ministers, do not engage with political opponents through newspapers, we are not having a discussion on the tabloids, but this is the only place where we can express our position on the work of ministers, and our position is that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic should be removed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46505	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46506	In order not to get the wrong impression, we have nothing against construction, or the proposal for a law on construction products, in terms of standardisation, quality, etc., our observations are why this is done exclusively on the EU's orders. You have been telling us for years that you are doing nothing for the EU, but doing it for the citizens of Serbia. Here, this law is evidence, that is, this proposal is proof that it is not. Our second remark is – why did you need this law to take care of standards that must meet certain construction products in order to be used in the building. You've heard from the SRS MPs that you don't discover hot water, that the dosmans destroyed our construction companies, that the top firms that were building all over the world, around the globe, that they were sold out for what, so that tycoons could get their hands on locations where they later built malls, hotels and so on instead of factories. This is the EU's policy, which you have continued, and this policy has led to you neglecting the quality of construction products, so your support wall in Grdelica is being torn down three times. How could that happen? Did you need this law to make it possible for you, Director of Corridor, not you, but for all of Serbia, to tell us – we knew that support wall would collapse. Why did you make it when you knew it would collapse? Or, you don't care what you say, you mean when you kick something like that, it won't be remembered, it's gone into the air, and it's over. Last time there was another demolition of the supporting wall, we asked you why you hired again, so-called. The experts of the World Bank, when they were doing you one of the projects, so we asked you whether it was true, or whether they did not deliberately do a good statistic, so that this would happen to us, or those you hired did not purposely want to work according to the standards that were envisaged. So you didn't need this law to do your job, but you don't do your job for two reasons, one is because you don't know it, and the other is because you deliberately undermine both the government of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46507	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46508	We just need this law because our construction products producers can go to a foreign market. With the current standards that we have they really have problems and they can't do that for many construction products. Of course, added to this and to increase the safety of construction products on our market, and of course we looked and made sure that everything was gradually in mind and condition, but given the objective and the objective, which is to increase their competitiveness. As far as the Gredile ravine is concerned, you don't have the right information. I'd be happy to give you all the information, all the documents and all the data. So everything from the first project that was made, from the names of the designers, the engineers who worked on it, none really from any other, except from Serbia of another country, did not work those projects. So, I'm at your disposal, if you're interested in the Gredile ravine, especially for the hairs you're talking about, because you're still wrong, and now you don't want to talk about it for another hour or so, all the paperwork without any comments I'll give you, and when you look at it, then tell me what's in your opinion happened here. And for these construction products one of the basic reasons is that our companies can go to a foreign market. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46509	I'm sorry, colleague Radeta. You have time for amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46510	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. It's obvious that today we're going to be driving ourselves all day, but well, we're here to work and we don't have any problem with it, and you, Mr. Arsic, should seriously take care of the application of Article 27, or abuse of the right to replication, because what you're doing is no longer using the rights you have in the Rules of Procedure, but abuse of rights. That's really not good, here's how long the amendment's been the same way you've been acting. You did not allow me to ask Zorana Mihajlovic through the replica why the last time she sat here she answered what I said earlier to hire experts from the World Bank, today she says there is no such thing. And, uh, I'd like to ask her further who's in charge. So, I just wanted to clarify a little bit what I said and what she said, and now I'm warning you not to give her a replica of what I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46511	I know that colleague Mihajlovic cannot get the right to a replica, but I also know that she has not given any reason to give you a replica. (Verica Radeta: Just what Mrs. Minister said is right for replication. It's communication with the minister. I know that and I understand that. (The Verse of Radeta: Please state yourselves in the day of the vote and do not explain it to me. Well, you can't take that right away from me, and you haven't even heard it yet. (Miss Radeta: Whatever you explain to me.) And whatever it is? All right. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46512	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on construction products, the essence of this law, as it is said, is seen in the need for production and services in this area to be adapted to the requirements of new rules that are in line with EU standards and regulations. If that's the only goal of passing this law, and it seems to be, then we'd better not have brought it. This law imposes additional costs on our construction operation which it will not be able to bear and deal with competition. The law provides for additional costs for the purchase of standards of regulations, training, staff to apply these provisions to the purchase of new equipment and the like. We need to be aware that our construction operation is in bad shape anyway, and how it's going to be with these extra duties we can only assume. On the other hand, we remember a time when we were proud of our construction operation and when our neimares worked, built and were recognized and known around the world. First, the Dossow government set out to destroy our construction operation, and this government continued on the same path. The adoption of this law represents the pinning of the last nail in our construction operation's postmortem coffin. That's why it would be best if this law were withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46513	At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46514	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the department, fellow MPs, respected citizens, is helping God to help everyone. The Serbian Movement Dvori has submitted a series of amendments to which we wanted to improve the envisaged version of the law, and we have essentially wanted from the title to point out what, in our opinion, is the question of all issues here. So I proposed that this title of the bill be changed and read – the Law on Construction Products and the Prevention of Urbanist Chaos and Wild Construction in Construction. So the essence of the whole story is whether we're finally going to stand up to wild construction and urban chaos or not. Everything else is empty stories, excuses and avoiding answers to this essential question. Is there wild construction in Serbia? Yeah, it's in unlimited quantities. Has anyone, who is the symbol of wild construction in Serbia, come under the influence of the law, and has this wild building been destroyed or not? Of course it wasn't torn down, that everyone was protected and that everyone continued to build wildly in Serbia. I was very specific when I was also in the principle debate, and I'm going to say again, I was talking about urban chaos and wild construction in Serbia, but I didn't get an answer from the competent minister to any of my questions. This really speaks of a lack of respect for the institution of the MP who asks you very specific and direct questions. Who protected Muamer Zukorlic, an Islamic community so that he could build whatever he wanted in Novi Pazar, against the law? Is it enough that Muammer Zukorlic, who supports the ruling coalition so that he can build wildly? Look, that's a very specific question, Madam Minister. Yes or no? Can he build wildly because he's your coalition partner? The second question, can there be such a symbol of wild construction at the top of the Kopalnik and that neither the court nor the police or local self-government can bring it down? Who stands behind that symbol of wild construction on top of the Copalnik, does the SNS, are criminals close to the SNS, some controversial businessmen, who and who protect them? So, a very specific question. The aunt's wall, MP Mark Parezanovic's people's house in Cačka, which was built against a building permit, which was supposed to be torn down and not. Who has protected it, and who has the privilege of being the aunt of the people's messenger, that something may be built wild for him, but someone else does not have the privilege of an aunt of the people's messenger? A very specific question. Did anyone from SNS stand behind the protection of all these illegal and wild constructions? It's not – is it? Not to mention the other examples, there's a lot of them from the back wall on the highway to, I don't know, the viaduct around Chuck who's been late for two or three months, I guess somebody's responsible for that. So if the three support pillars on that vidduct are down, if three months late these works, where's the expert surveillance, where's the inspection surveillance? Where's the Ministry? Where is he, anyway, responsible for some things working in Serbia? So that's the point because the name and essence of this and all of these laws, and the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Law-Law of Object, had to enter what was the essence, and that is how to stop urban chaos and how to stop wild construction? That's where we come to the point of the whole story. How is it possible to build wild? Do you, by these laws that you are constantly passing, only legalize that so far wild building, because you were not ready to bring it down and enforce the laws so far? Who has so far protected the crime of wild construction, who has protected it, who has allowed the crime of wild construction, who has created urban chaos in all of Serbia? Someone who's been in power can't be somebody else. Be careful, those people who make up the board of plans, Madam Minister, are chosen by local self-government, by the ruling majority, so, SNS. Those people who are head of the city and municipal administrations for urbanism, are chosen by a ruling majority, meaning SNS. Building inspectors, then those who need to assist the building inspector to bring down an illegal facility, which is a court, police, local self-government, they don't do their job. Let's see, at last, you haven't answered all the questions, who hasn't brought down wild construction for decades back? Who's been protecting wild construction for decades? Are you a building inspector? Let's solve the problem of a building inspector who's been corrupt. Or maybe the building inspector did his part of the job, gave a warrant to bring down an illegal facility, but then it was stopped by a court, so, a corrupt judge, then stopped by the police, so the corrupt police, or stopped by the mayor, or the president of the municipality who didn't give assistance by calling public procurement and hiring a company that would take down an illegal facility? So someone stopped the building inspector's order to bring down the wild construction, and who? A corrupt judge, a corrupt cop or a corrupt mayor of the SNS who didn't assist? Here, you know the whole case of wild construction on the Kopalnik. Who didn't give the assist to bring down that object on the Bath? Who, the court, the police, local self-government? But someone is protecting it, someone is behind the urban chaos and wild construction in Serbia, and they are constantly trying to make new and new legal solutions legal for previous wild construction. I don't see why it was a problem to accept one of these amendments. He just wants to point to the essence, that we need a law that will solve urban chaos and stop wild construction. In the end, I want to point at the next few findings, are all of this done, avoiding getting in the way of wild construction, we actually law-abiding the crimes of wild construction that were done in the previous period? How many unpaid contributions to construction land in Serbia? How many unused permits have been issued and the facilities are functioning? How much disrespect is the profession from these committees on plans or from the urban administration, when people say something, and it's done contrary to what they said professionally? How many unpaid property taxes are there? How much is crime and corruption for both wild construction and urban chaos in Serbia? I would like Madam Minister, since you are such a great crime and corruption fighter, as a complete SNS, to list to me a single object that you have destroyed, as a symbol of one insolent, boasting wild construction, the ossion behavior of an investor, just give me one object. Where did you hit some mayor, like Mayor Chuck, who's building a floor more than she's given him a building permit? Did you perhaps invite him to call the law? Of course not, because it's from your SNS. So if he's from SNS, then he can build up a floor more than he can afford a building permit, he can destroy the oldest cinema in town, anything he can do if he's a member of the SNS. It is not subject to construction permits, applicable permits, building inspections, because whether or not it is believed in Cačka, at a facility whose investor is Mayor Cačka, is controlled by a construction inspector who is a member of the SNS. Could it be a funnier story than that story? So, the mayor, the investor, member of the SNS presidency, wall one more floor than a building permit and everybody knows it, everyone sees it, naked eye shows it. A building inspector who needs to control law enforcement, is a member of the SNS, of course, does not come to his senses of law enforcement, but protects his SNS partner. Now, it's called crime, corruption, wild construction, urban chaos, and everything I suggest you do with this law finally. But you won't. Because you cannot hit tycoons and criminals close to the SNS behind wild construction and urban chaos in Serbia. It doesn't have to be just SNS, let's hit all of them, let's see who they are. Maybe they belong to other parties, maybe bribe local officials, maybe they're dealing with who knows what other actions, unrelated to whether they're members of the SNS or not. Let's hit anyone who thinks there's no law in Serbia. Let's finally pass one such law that will bring order into urban chaos and stop wild construction. Let's test it in practice, yes, here in Belgrade, where now that you're centralizing these building inspections and other inspections, so everyone has to report to Goran Vesic to build anything in Belgrade, let's start with the first building built in Belgrade to bring it down in direct transmission on all televisions with national frequencies, and we'll come as the Serbian Movement of Dvera's parliamentary group to support this activity and if we have to give full support to both the court and the police and the city's local self-government, but don't just selectively tear down something for example, which doesn't belong to, say, the SNS leaders, but let's do it in a row. Whether SNS or anyone else, if they are illegally building, live, live, in direct transmission, we are tearing down its illegal facility, a multi-story in downtown Belgrade for example, and no one can think of it anymore, and plus the criminal act that arises and which should also be processed. So you can't convince Serbia that anything is changing in six years that the SNS authorities did not bring down a single illegal building facility throughout Serbia, especially a symbol of wild construction on the Kopalnik. Well, who can trust you, Madam Minister? Well, people are laughing at you. You can't send the police to take down an object behind which are boasted criminals and controversial SNS businessmen. Well, who can trust you with anything you write in these laws if you can't bring down an illegal building facility in Serbia? Who can trust you? Who trusts you with anything and your intention is good, that you might have put some good things in these laws? No one trusts you. You've had six years to show yourself and you're not ready to stand up to any proud investor who practically commits a criminal act of wild construction and who leaves, in practice, the budget of local self-government to damage, because there's no contribution to building land and there's no tax on property. So, once you answer concrete questions -- does the SNS government actually stand behind wild construction and urban chaos in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46515	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46516	Thank you, Chairman. Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. We had the opportunity to hear a series of lies and insults from our best friend, not the crowned king of wild construction in Serbia, Milan Stamatovic, his coalition partner and the man whose pre-election slogan in the previous elections was - "These leave without them coming back." If these guys leave, I guess he's thinking about us, but they don't come back, who doesn't come back? Gilas and their tycoon crew, who, when calculated what they were building, you'll get that more values have been built into projects than they've built? Let it go, to the Bridge on Ada, to stand on that bridge, to imagine why this bridge was paid with a figure that could have been made by two more bridges, and then let it think about its palos that devastated this country. Let him go to Zlatibor, where they have the headquarters of their new coalition and look at the gondola lying around Zlatibor and the drone, which was obtained only on the basis of an idea solution, without a project, without resolved property-legal relations. That's the story of wild construction? I'm afraid his coalition partner and best friend don't blame him for bringing up all this stuff. So when he says these guys leave without these guys coming back, who doesn't come back? Dragan Gilas, Jeremic and the rest of the bench? He doesn't know what he's talking about anymore. We're not going anywhere, they're not coming back, and the previous gentleman, he doesn't know if he came or went anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46517	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46518	Thank you, Chairman. An article in 106 that says that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted, and you are also witnessing that the previous speaker did not do so. However, it is easy for the previous speaker to show complete irresponsibility in what he stands for and what he represents, for, you know, he has no obligation either to his membership or to the voters. Why? Because there aren't any, but there's one obligation. He has an obligation to Dragan Gilas. He read to us here today all the things that Gilas wrote to him and assigned him to read to us here today, to bring forth a bunch of lies, a bunch of insults, a bunch of lies, but that's something that characterized him. However, I would like to tell you, and you to pass on to him, that he asks his boss and his coalition partner Dragan Gilas – why has he never answered the questions asked about violent affairs? I'm thinking primarily of affairs in the City of Belgrade, I'm thinking of an affair about the procurement of trams, I'm thinking of affairs on the reconstruction of King Alexander's Buleuvar, I'm thinking of affairs when it comes to underground containers and, in the end, like Reverend Janjusevic said, on the Bridge affair on Ada, and I, for the sake of the citizens, because I belong to a party who is responsible for policy-making, I just have to bring a few facts when it comes to the situation in Belgrade. So, it was never built again in Belgrade. At the moment, there are 1450 up-to-date construction sites in Belgrade. In this year alone, the city of Belgrade issued construction permits for a total of 750,000 square meters and local conditions for more than a million squares. Now, these are the facts, and with that fact, we will defeat them, defeat their lies in insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46519	My colleague Markovic, I have failed to capture this article in 106 with a tram factory or containers, so I can't give you an answer. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Alexander Markovic: No. ) Right to replica, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46520	Thank you, Chairman. It's interesting to hear those who are now in league with tycoons, who have just been building wildly, here care for urbanism, urban chaos, crime, corruption, but I can understand the nervousness of the coordinator. The coordinator's probably nervous because he missed enough people to gather. You know, in Nis, a few days ago, the Alliance for Serbia gathered together, and they started lying in my town, lying about the ban on some stands, lying about how they applied to hold the stands in the Symphony Orchestra building, and now I'm going to show you how many there were. Here, I don't know if you can see this well? This is a set of people who have come to support the Alliance for Serbia. I think more people come to every average wedding in our country than they came to support the Alliance for Serbia. So there it is, here it is, in the front row and the Luthor. I don't know if it was Gilas, but for Vuk Jeremic, I know it was. A co-ordinator who's been busting his chest here as there's no media space, now, for God's sakes, both the SNS and the heads of the town of Nis won't let him gather in the Symphony Orchestra. You know how much she receives from the Symphony Orchestra in Nis? He's receiving 250 people. There are hundreds of people here. That's how many people have gathered the Alliance for Serbia in Nis. Of course, they later walked down the street of victory, I guess that would be symbolic and called for the beginning of the end of the SNS that would start from Nis. There's nothing for them from Nis. They can only start from Nis to another city and see if more than a hundred people will gather, and what happens in Nis next election can only be a victory of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46521	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46522	A few things. First, I'll start with the amendment. Just so the citizens of Serbia know that Dvori, or Mr Obradovic, asked to change the title of the law and said the law should be called like this – the Law on construction products and the prevention of urban chaos and wild construction in construction. What one of the SRS MPs would say - grandmothers and frogs. So, that's what the Dvora wanted to change in the title of this law... (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... And I'd like to say a few things after you used that title and asked some other questions. I said it positively. I didn't say anything negative. So, here's the deal. First, my question right now for you – did you file a criminal charges against your partner, Mr Stamatovic, up in Catetina and Zlatibor? Did you file a criminal charges against all those illegal objects for which man gave his approval and all those things he did against the law? I can tell you, the Department of Construction did. But you who fight so hard against this illegal construction, did you do it, since you work together and want to present to the citizens how very honest you are, how well you work and worry that there is no illegal construction? That's the first question. The second question – have you filed criminal charges against also your partners or coalition partners, Jeremic and Gilas, you would have so much material if you really wanted to talk here in front of the citizens about how you are fighting illegal construction, crime, corruption, etc. Well, get out of your own ranks first, get out of your way, get out of your family. Maybe you know perfectly how to build it illegally. We, on this side, if I may say so, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, are currently fighting illegal construction. What they left us, we're trying the laws we're making, in a legal way, systemically, to solve the issue of illegal construction. Therefore, when you first file criminal charges against all those people who work with you together, then really a man can listen to you with due attention. Now, I really don't see what we need to hear from you, which makes any sense and anything to do with the law itself. (Chairman: Bringing the end, please.) Just one more thing. You were talking about billing, revenue, etc. The revenue from implementing the Law on Law-Laws is 3.9 billion dinars, of which 2.7 are in local self-governments, only for local municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46523	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. ( ) Radeta colleagues, you do not have the right to reply. I do, you will hear. You have no right. (Verica Radeta: Then according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46524	Mr Arsic, you seem to have sworn not to give the replica today, and I had the right to reply because Minister Mihajlovic, speaking to Parliamentarian Dveri, mentioned something the Serbian Radical Party MP said. I don't know when and I don't know who, but it doesn't matter. Serbian Radicals with these Ljotics must not be associated with anyone in any combination, even when it comes to this law, or more about the Law of Law. We advocated, and we kept saying, that the ministry and the local self-government find the possibility of a maximum number of buildings being built without a building permit scarred. We stand for minimum demolition, only where it's right, it has to. He said a little while ago that they're pushing for a crash. Because he kept asking how many of you you've knocked down, how many you've knocked down. And we're asking -- how legalized you are, how legalized you are. And that's such a difference, you can't get us in a relationship at all. The only thing where we have a serious objection to you not collapsing is that the minister cannot say that the Serbian Progressive Party and the Serbian Progressive Party are pushing for everything to be legal until the villa of Tomislav Nikolic is brought down in a protected zone on the Sava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46525	Can I answer now or not? And now you can. May I? Here, I got your permission from a colleague of Radet's. I don't see anything wrong with my colleague Mihajlovic quoting one... . Have you seen the basis for me to replicate? You had no basis for replication. The fact that you have an agreement with Mrs. Mihajlovic to give you the right to replicate each other will not pass today. I'm not gonna let that deal go. I've got to get to the Rules of Procedure now. You can't do it twice in the Rules of Procedure. (The Faith of Radeta: How can I not?) I can't break the Rules of Procedure twice. You can only plead. - Yes, I can. I can't give an answer twice. - Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Article 107... . No, I gave you the answer, you can only plead. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, just yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46526	I want to speak to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46527	You can't, my colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46528	In accordance with Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46529	You can't, I couldn't break it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46530	Let me show you that it is. What's the matter with you today, Arsic? You know what I mean in advance? You know what I mean in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46531	It's nothing to me, colleague Radeta. Please, how could I have broken the Rules of Procedure when I was answering you? That's impossible. (Miss Radeta: It's possible. I'm sorry, but it's not possible. Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. (Religion of Radeta: Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46532	Thank you, Chairman. I really must remind Mrs. Minister that she has not answered any of my questions again, that she is still not ready to deal with illegal construction and urban chaos, that she is silent on a number of specific examples of wild construction, because she knows well that the representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party stand behind them. And here's a concrete example. I'm glad that the example of Zlatibor and Mr Milan Stamatovic was mentioned, so here you can explain to me how a nine-mile gondola on Zlatibor could cost 13 million, and this one, SNS, Belgrade gondola, cost 15 million? Here, explain to the citizens how nine times the length of the gondola on Zlatibor costs the same as your advanced, Belgrade gondola? That is, it costs less than yours, nine times shorter, Belgrade, advanced gondola. So how many wild constructions are there, how many crime and corruption are there? Is this another new affair – a tree, another new affair in which Belgrade lighting or something, where SNS leaders launder money, so to speak, and direct them to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46533	My colleague Obradovic, what if it were, is part of the story. You don't stop talking about it. You are making unargumented accusations at the expense of Belgrade's leadership. Nothing, yet, any provision of the law has been broken, because the event you're talking about has not yet happened. Then you can't call people thieves when no store that makes sense has yet to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46534	I ask the question – can a ninekm golden gondola be cheaper than a 1km Belgrade gondola? So nine times shorter, the Belgrade gondola is more expensive than the Goldibor. It's a very specific question for the Secretary-General. As far as the Alliance for Serbia is concerned, I think that we are very fair on the programme platform at 30 points, for which no one in Serbia can hear anything because such a blockade of the media is that no opposition leader has hosted any political show for more than six months on any national frequency television. How can people even hear about the Alliance for Serbia and our programme platform at 30 points. And there it clearly writes – an examination of the origin of the property of all public function holders from 1990 to today, counting the leaders of the Alliance. Let our property be questioned first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46535	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people, Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46536	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 - dignity. And indeed, a previous speaker whose new political slogan is that we rape the Prime Minister and hang the Prime Minister, he's come clean here, that I really don't know where to go. Watch out, compares the golden and Belgrade gondola. It's like I'm asking the vice president and the minister how she's more expensive a mile of highway than nine miles of local road? It's not the same. The Goldibor Gondola, the French and those people who understand themselves in the area, and experts laugh at the concept and gondola that should carry people, most of them, through meadows. That's a funny concept. But we have nothing against that gondola. We don't mind building a gondola. We're against fitting into that gondola. The Goldibor Gondola was obtained with the money of citizens without a project and without resolved property-legal relations. Belgrade gondola, that's another problem, a different structure, probably going through some parts of the city, I guess that looks different. It's not a potato, a kilo of potatoes here, two kilos of potatoes there. It's classic grandmothers and frogs. This is classic according to his policy where Vuk's work calls "the wolfery", Dosite's "supply", where it says that the solution to the economic crisis is an additional printing of money. He didn't move anything, and he learned a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46537	Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46538	First of all, because Serbia's citizens know exactly what it is, what a gondola it is in Zlatibor, as SNS MP said, I will return to that gondola, but a little around a gondola in Calemegdan which is being bridged by the river. So far, only location information has been issued. It's only when all the projects are finished, so we'll know exactly how value and how it's going to work and how it's done when the system is arranged, and how it works on Zlatibor and how your colleague works or not to call him another name, so it's not done by gondola on Zlatibor. A criminal report has been filed for that. Do you know that they got complete equipment, put it on a meadow for a year, that they didn't have any information, not a single permit. Everything they started working with that gondola and that gondola alone on Zlatibor, but a million other things, they're going down, they're going down, their roofs are going down. So the general chaos in Zlatibor is because this same Stamatovic, your pajtos, the man you're working with and you're trying to allegedly change Serbia for the better, has created an entire urban building chaos on Zlatibor. That's why he's got a criminal record filed, and that's why he's in the D.A.'s office for organized crime. That's how your people do construction, and the way we're supposed to deal with construction is exactly this gondola in Calemegdan and many other buildings built on Belgrade and Serbia's territory. A colleague of mine said how many construction sites we have in Belgrade. In Serbia's territory, 36,000 with construction permits. So that's how it's done in Serbia. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46539	You have no right to a replica, colleague Obradovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46540	Mr. Arsic, I am reporting on the basis of Article 32, as vice president of the National Assembly, to inform you that I am very concentrated, sleepy, rested, ready for today's debate, and you seem to be a little short today, so I wanted to suggest to you, that Maja Gojkovic will not be angry, that you will allow me to conduct today's session that we really finally comply with the Rules of Procedure. You just wanted to joke when you said that Zorana Mihajlovic and I were setting up replicas for each other. Don't make it through a joke, please, there's one diametric difference between the two of us and we're not talking about each other, she's a NATO lobbyist, I'm with a Russianophile. Not to mention anything else, it's enough that you don't tie us up in any context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46541	The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46542	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I have to say that I thought that people who work in the library know that they don't say "urban chaos", or say "longitude of one mile". Obviously, that doesn't have to mean that when someone introduces himself as a writer, they know how to speak properly. I can see that the coordinator likes to talk about Zlatibor, but I also have to remind myself of my previous exposure that the coordinator doesn't seem very happy when it comes to Nis. I will now, on behalf of all citizens, who voted for the SNS, say that the coordinator remembers well that Nis no longer needed the policy he had until 2012 and urban chaos and chaos in public enterprises, the closure of factories, without any new jobs, that Nis no longer is necessary. This policy that the Alliance for Serbia is propagating by coming to the markets in our city, this policy is no longer necessary for our city. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46543	You have no right to a replica, colleague Obradovic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46544	Thank you, Chairman. I said the other day that whenever you try to put order in Serbia from 2012 to this day, they start to jump, to rip, to roar, to shout, to yell, to yell about all the worst SNS, to Alexander Vukic, to ministers in the government, to be like this, to be like this, to be corrupt, to be thieves. In fact, it's as if they're standing in front of the mirror all the time, looking at themselves and telling themselves what they are. How can you talk about wild construction during SNS, and in coalition with those people who stimulated this wild construction, they stimulated the wealth of wild, black, gray economy, all the worst in this society. That's what it looked like since 2000, because Serbia lost between 70m and 80m euros annually because of wild construction at an annual level. If you multiply that by 12 years of chaos, powerlessness and horror in Serbia produced by DS members in this now-bound, yellow, tycoon, decaying, failed enterprise, it comes out to you somewhere about 900m euros from Serbian citizens who have been dumped and squandered. Of course, they ended up in the pockets of a tycoon and a politician in the current alliance for strangulation and rape. It will be determined by the authorities how much each of them took money from Serbian citizens. As my colleague Markovic said, from 2017 until today, more than 1 million and 20,000 building permits were issued, and in 2012, there were only 242,000, so you see what the difference is when you have a license and no license, so let's see who works and whose authority is corrupt. From the city of Belgrade and from the city manager Goran Vesic and the city's leading people, the initiative has arrived to change something and get in the way of wild construction. The Serbian Progressive Party strongly supports this and we will support such phenomena. Those who are illegally building, dare to build illegally, and thus leave our citizens without kindergarten, without hospitals, without regular toilets in schools, such people to punish, to sanction, and that is what inspections do. The Minister can do that... The inspections do, such sites are closed, but you don't see it, you act silly when the inspections go to Belgrade and other cities and put the tapes around it and shut down. So we will continue to introduce order in Serbia. You guys get as nervous as you want, 'cause there's no room for your tycoons and your friends to keep on going wild to get big sums of money. No wonder they knew so much about corruption, about crime, because they were themselves corrupt, the criminal system building up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46545	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You have no right, colleague Obradovic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46546	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to commend Minister Zorana Mihajlovic's honesty with which she spoke to us when we began the debate. In fact, she herself admitted that this issue of construction products has been resolved by all the countries in the environment, and that chaos has lasted, here we are, so far. However, she forgot to say who was responsible for, at least for these six years of SNS rule, no one has entitled to bring order into this area. Also, we could not notice any serious state plan to support domestic producers and that this export that was spoken of is indeed being synchronised, supported by this country. I have always been particularly bothered that domestic construction firms are in a subordinate position, which we know well that the most often subcontractors, and the references for well done jobs are used by foreign firms, and we know very well how important references are to obtain large tenders. Finally, what is personal to me for both the Serbian Movement and the citizens who support us most importantly, the minister is ready to compromise when it comes to major construction affairs, major investments. We recently had the opportunity to hear that she did not warn Ambassador Kyle Scott when he said that KIM were not part of Serbia, but rather a sovereign state. We could have made sure she sold Kosovo... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46547	Comrade, I give you a warning! Yeah, yeah, and I need you to clap. In such words, only such a reaction you can expect, it is normal, it is, unfortunately, extorted, but this is a tall House and no one in this room deserves to be spoken to and given such qualifications, and especially the Vice President of the Government. Let's move on. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, although I am uneasyly surprised by the one indiscipline you have now shown. She wasn't the only person who said what she said was a Member of the Dwri, I mean Madam Minister. But let me go back to my amendment, the Construction Products Act and construction of construction facilities. Perhaps I too will risk experiencing, as my colleague Obradovic, that the minister tells me that I've mixed up grandmothers and frogs, which I don't think one lady fits. But, you see, I have the right to believe that construction products should be used to build construction facilities and this makes sense to me. I think this name is more complete than the one you suggested, and of course he has a huge flaw that doesn't suggest power, so he'll certainly be rejected. But the new law is, and I was thinking about his name, and I was reading what I got in the material, and he said, the reasons for the regulation, and I was just there, Madam Minister, thrilled, in the first sentence, for the first reason, so when I was very disappointed in the second. For the first reason, it says – the most important reason for the adoption of a draft law on construction products, whose name I would otherwise change, is the need for a general regulation to regulate the placing on the markets of construction products, which has not been arranged so far and that is logical and that is correct. But in another, it says -- another important reason is to comply with EU regulations. We don't have to, Madam Minister, keep getting some more or less, on the one hand or on the other, euphoric spills, when we see something about the EU. You know, Spain is both an EU member and an "Azvi" who did the first lot in the Grdeliska clisura belong to Spain, a Spanish firm, an EU member, and I guess he followed those laws, so what happened happened. It does not necessarily have to be what is good from the EU, so I felt it was necessary to change the name of this law. Not to waste too much time, I'll talk in the following amendments about similar things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46549	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. By amendment, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46550	Mr. Chairman, indeed, if you had taken the seat of the chairman, you would have come immediately with warnings, if you had interrupted a fellow MP, Mary Janjušević, in the middle of the sentence, but had not finished the sentence, so I do not know why you gave her a real warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46551	You could've asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would've explained it to you, and I'll explain it to you after you've been exposed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46552	Great, I am now asking you here, in the course of my time, has there been a question here for days by several MPs why, even from the ruling majority, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has failed to address the US ambassador who denied Serbia's statehood in Kosovo and Metohija? Did we all ask that as a matter of ministers? Yes, we did. Did anyone else get a warning except Maria Janjusevic because of the question?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46553	I'm just asking you to proceed with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46554	That's exactly what the amendment said, and that was the point of what you did not allow your colleague Janjusevic to ask. So the idea was to compromise in a concrete construction venture, i.e. realising a certain highway with an American ambassador who recognises an independent Kosovo. What's that? Is that a store? That's what your colleague Janjušević asked you. Why are you warning me about that? That's what we're asking the Minister. Does this mean that we would get American money and that they would get a job to work a certain highway in Serbia we should give up Kosovo and Metohija and keep quiet before the US ambassador when he denies Serbia's statehood in Kosovo and Metohija? That's what the Minister said. We didn't make it up. She argues that this compromise is correct and that for the sake of American money and American money, I don't know what kind of participation in making a certain highway in Serbia we need to silence the US ambassador in our house when insulting and challenging the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia. So, you have a minister who is willing to compromise that kind of thing and give up Kosovo and Metohija for trading with the US ambassador. That's not a warning, that's what we all say. That's what you of the ruling majority claim and also criticise your own minister for, and I've heard it from Alexander Vulin. Why didn't you warn him when he criticized Zorana Mihajlovic? Then don't warn us from the opposition either. As far as this particular subject is concerned, and this is very much about the subject, so I think we've pointed to a very simple thing that we still can't get any answers from the Minister in charge. What prevented you for six years, how many SNS in power, okay, before 2012 when someone else was in power was some wild construction, which you didn't take down when you came to power? Why didn't you take her down, Madam Minister? So, the previous regime had a wild construction, anywhere in Serbia, why didn't you tear it down? I think I have an explanation, or you're dealing with those investors in the former regime, so you forgive them for wild construction, and it's only a second question - where is the wild construction during the six years of your authority? Are you saying she's gone? Tell the public she's not here. Here, come out, be honest and say – there is no wild construction during the SNS government in Serbia. Is there or isn't there? If there's one, why didn't you knock it down? In six years, who can trust you more? Who can trust you with anything? All you ever said was actually the biggest pre-election lie. So you were saying you'd cut the electricity price, did you cut it when you came to power? Of course not. Everything you promised the citizens of Serbia, you lied. That's what I'm asking you, why don't you answer a very simple question? So you're running away from the answer. So the government is behind the wild construction. What did you do in six years? Why didn't you bring down the wild construction of the former regime? Why didn't you pass the law on an investigation into the origin of the property? Why didn't you send everyone who robbed the state for over 30 years to prison? A politician or a tycoon? None in six years of your authority. You have nothing to blame me for, so you talk around, the Alliance with Serbia, the one, and where is Bosko Obradovic in that power? Where is Bosko Obradovic in this crime and corruption? Well, he's gone. That's why you can't say anything about Bosko Obradovic and the Serbian Dvora movement. Why didn't you question the others, that's the real question? Let's see who illegally built it. Let's see who's behind the wild construction in Serbia. Let's see who's the one who robbed Serbia in the last 30 years. Do any of them now sit in SNS, such as Goran Vesic or Sinisa Mali? Let's see. Why didn't you pass the law on an investigation into the origin of the property, all the holders of the function from 1999 to today? Why didn't you, when you were such great crime and corruption fighters? Who's defending you? You've had an absolute ruling majority for six years. You can't bring it because you're protecting those who have gone from the former regime to your party and received an abortion for all the crimes they've done before. Now they're good. Anyone who moves from the former regime to the SNS is good, so he can be whatever criminal he is before that, but if he doesn't want to move to SNS, then he's still a criminal. But as soon as he gets to SNS, then he's a good guy, a great guy, he's awesome no matter what he was part of some former regime. You've abolized the entire SPS that was the former regime and now you're sitting with them in power. Wait, why didn't you go after the SPS, that maybe she wasn't behind the wild construction, that maybe they hadn't destroyed this country in the last 30 years? No, because they're your coalition partners now, they're great, and it doesn't matter that they were former regimes. Wait, then what do you have against DS? Anything you object to, DS, the SPS is just as much the former regime as DS. So, it's a good SPS because it serves Alexander Vukic and because she gave up Slobodan Milosevic and because she now believes in a God called Alexander Vukic. Wait, let's be honest, do we want to break up with wild construction, let's break up with the SPS. I think it's a very simple question for you. You haven't answered any of my questions, which means I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46555	Thank you. Kola Obradovic, you have completely come out of the course of this topic and out of the debate on the amendment, submitted by Dr Dragan Vesovic. Of course, as you know, I cannot engage with you unfortunately in the debate, but I am obliged to tell you that when it comes to qualifications as treason, sales, Zorana Mihajlović, anything, there is no compromise, the punishment is fully deserved. You can talk about highways, laws that are on the agenda, but of course not, because we violate the dignity of the National Assembly. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic called, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46556	Article 107, Mr. Marinkovic. He asked Mr. Coordinator, what have we done in six years? For the past six years, we have defeated them in all the elections that have been held since 2012 convincingly. He asked us about the coordinator, and he respected how the citizens didn't trust us. That's not true. Citizens believed in SNS and 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, and this is also what the election results show. What Mr. Coordinator seems to have forgotten is that the U.S. has not admitted so-called. The state of Kosovo in 2018, rather than in 2008 at a time when its current coalition partners and great friends Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic and others were in power. You know how those great KIM protectors reacted in 2008? Boris Tadic fled to Romania for a day, allegedly had urgent state obligations in Bucharest, and that same year, the government that allegedly defended KIM, which Mr. Coordinator is now so keenly defending, expelled, imagine, two hated ambassadors in Belgrade. They are probably strong and powerful countries that have made a crucial contribution to the recognition of KIM. So the government of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic expelled from Belgrade by the Montenegrin ambassador and Macedonian. So much for their political courage. Mr. Coordinator has mentioned a lot here that I can't repeat for as long as I can. It is clear what is being done, since citizens, as you can see, will not listen in Nis, so there will be no more of them coming from the bus from Belgrade, but from the citizens of Nis, and then all of that amount of words they want to say to the citizens, and the citizens won't listen to them, then they have to say here in the National Assembly. And Gilas probably prescribed a tariff for how many times they have to negatively mention the SNS, so in addition to mentioning the SNS, I guess...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46557	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46558	I thank the chairman. Article 27 concerning Article 108 Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. By who knows which way Bosko Obradovic insults this home and citizens of Serbia and no one responds to these insults, so it is high time to draw attention to those who are destructively acting, especially against the state, to at least give a warning, which you should have arranged for the chairman, and you did not. What makes the SPS different from the Bosko Obradovic co-ordinator and his party, is the fact that the SPS has never, absolutely never called for the murder of the president of the state, ever called for the murder of the prime minister, unlike so-called. The national party Dvori, did not call for the rape of the prime minister, never exhibited a destruction every day, not only in this high house, but at every step in the social life of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I ask you not to accept any behaviour that is the least said destruction in the future and that you finally have zero tolerance for those who humiliate, not only the Serbian Parliament, but also the Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46559	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Just a moment, we have a few reports following the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Risticevic, you didn't sign up, okay. I need to set a three-minute break, in accordance with Article 112, in order to continue our regular work at the session. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46561	When it comes to this bill of law and the amendments that we have submitted, it can indeed be applied to many of the situations that have occurred in the area of construction. Here, explaining this amendment, we want to draw attention to a Belgrade firm called "Official Property". That company built apartments for sale, possibly with bad construction material, because it didn't finish them, and that's why it's about this amendment that I've submitted. More than 1,000 days have been blocked by the company's account at over 32 million dinars. What else does it matter? So this company, or its owners, essentially took money from the people who wanted to buy these apartments and, of course, never got those apartments, because the building was not finished and what was done was very badly done, not even in the gray zone. Now, this owner of Svetlana Lana Djuraskovic was recently arrested, so we were at least informed in the media, but it's interesting that she was one of the SNS coordinators of their Internet team. Well, now, does this have anything to do with Belgrade, does this have anything to do with the local self-government of the city of Belgrade, did this Svetlana Lana Djuraskovic go into this criminal business on her own? These are some of the things we would really like to get, on behalf of the Serbian citizens, to answer these and similar questions, I repeat, to connect to whether this law was so bad because it wasn't this law? Can you guarantee that there won't be any more of this when this law and this set of laws are passed here, because you've said something like that, roughly, that in this principle debate there will be no more problems in legalization, nor in obtaining a building permit, etc. Well, here's the people who cheated on that Lana Djuraskovic, they'd probably like to hear the minister's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46562	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46563	I really think it doesn't matter who's a member of the political parties and whether he's even a member of the political party. It's important to me that the police do their job in these situations. I don't know who the person is, but it's important that the police do their job and give all the information you need. As for the issue of building permits, I really don't think there should be any more problems, and there hasn't been a problem in the last year of the issue of information on the location or the issue of building permits. Where it is, defacto, any problems, and that's why we're changing the law, is legislation. So it didn't end and it doesn't end at what speed we'd like to see. I fully agree that the reason why we even passed the Law of Law was that as many objects as possible, and that only what must be destroyed should be destroyed. What we are now bringing amendments and additions to the Law on Law of Law is to strengthen even more for those who are arrogant and who do whatever is illegal and build illegal objects, and therefore these amendments and additions to the Law of Law are before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46564	Thank you. The Faith of Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46565	Thank you. Well, it's a good thing Arsic's gone. Came a rested, fresh man and knows when to give a replica. Mrs. Mihajlovic has brought some information here that is not quite correct. And, more than once in public, this story has been told by the representatives of her ministry that construction permits are now issued without any problems, within a short period, on a single counter, etc. Here, now a question for Mrs. Mihajlovic – to say local self-government in Serbia where a building permit can be obtained by coming to a counter. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. The building permit can be obtained within 28 days prescribed by law, although the General Administrative Procedure Act said that it was 30 days, therefore nothing epochal, already existed in the Law in general, can be obtained when all previous documents were obtained. And what you're saying in public and what you were saying when that law was passed was -- you just come, you say good day, I'd like to build here and there, on one counter and it's all over. So that's misinformation. The building permit is obtained in the same way as before. The future investor must obtain all possible documentation in order to obtain a building permit within that time limit. It's different now, I, first of all, I'm talking about natural persons, and I know it's different when it comes to legal persons, and that's what the problem is, too, and the question of how the legal persons get it within a very short period of time, and the question of whether with complete documentation, building license, and an ordinary man can't get it until he's gone through a hundred tents until he gets to that one of your tents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46566	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Professor Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46567	How is it possible that you who were the head of the Department of Property Legal Affairs, that you who are a graduate lawyer, don't know that the building permits are being issued electronically in this country? There's no counters. There isn't. It's been a while. So, by law, we have 28 days, so within 28 days, a building permit must be issued. Location information, building permit project, building permit issue, everything is electronic. There's not one, only paper. Therefore, in every city in Serbia, therefore, but in every city in Serbia, it was a small municipality or city, after all, at the ministry level, information on locations is being issued around, it takes 15 days to obtain a building permit from three to five days. The construction permit for large infrastructure projects is issued within three days. Well, when we were working, let's say, "IKEA," so they were somehow the first to be at the level of the ministry to get an electronic building permit, everything had to be electronic. No more paper, no more counters, no more of it to come someone to say – I'd like a building permit, and then the one on the other side of the counter stands and says, well, let's see. Well, that's why we had the whole mess, and that's why we had all that stuff that sometimes people couldn't get building permits. It's not a problem in the works of issuing building permits, when we talk about construction, when we talk about these jobs. The big problem is, so, legislation, property business. We have a problem here, and we have to solve it. I have full statistics here, so I don't really read it to you right now, we'll be delivering it as a question of MPs. So, they're e-issued electronically, we have e-licences.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46568	Thank you. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46569	Well, I went through a little while ago, and I thought I'd get my ass kicked, as Minister Mihajlovic started yelling, and he was waving his hands. And she says now - she's sorry I don't know. I know great, Mrs. Mihajlović, and what I did and what I'm always ready to do and I know what I told you and what I asked you. Whether it's an electronic permit, or a permit on the counter, one that needs to be given to the sea, even if it's electronic, to obtain twenty change documents, and not to obtain that service, as you swore and claimed in every place. And now I ask you, Mrs. Mihajlović, if the host of one in Prajani, say, where was Mrs. Maja Gojkovic recently at a significant event, and if that host from Prajana wants to build, say, a house, wants to build some agricultural facility, how will you allow him to contact you electronically? There's no Internet. No, and the question of whether or not he can use it. Can you make every man use the Internet? Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, Serbia is not a circle of two, Serbia is not Belgrade, Serbia is as big as KIM is now, tell Kyle Scott when you see him. And, don't all the things you're saying here, just turn into what you can do in Belgrade. A lot of things Ana Brnabić has been talking about here, and you're constantly bragging about, digitization, etc., which we have nothing against, but you don't have the conditions for such a thing. You in half the village in the forest don't have fixed phones. In Western Serbia, in half a village, in half a town, in municipality, in every town, in every municipality, you don't have the opportunity to use every mobile phone network, and you're saying that someone will just click and get a building permit. That's not possible. You're cheating on the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46570	Thank you, colleague Radeta. If you'll excuse me, you haven't been to Prajani recently, otherwise there are many households fully equipped with the Internet. Answer, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46571	Just to be sure, no one has to be electronically written, but anyone who wants to make a small, big, whatever house, in whatever part of Serbia, someone has to do a project for that house. So, the decision is that you want to build a house wherever you are, and the other one is that someone has to do a project for you, so whatever you're writing or illiterate and whatever education you have, that designer ends up with an electronic signature. And that this has done Serbia well and for your information among other things, 1,368 state administration bodies, 8,428 civil servants involved in the process of issuing building permits, have been networked. Serbia is 186th in the world today, just for the record, that part is really arranged and I have to react to what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46572	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenada Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46573	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, part of the amendment that I propose to the laws I look up to the largest parliamentary group in our National Assembly, the SNS, and watching them propose good amendments and I try to propose, in a similar case, which amendment. The only problem is that they are representatives of the government, and the government is constantly rejecting all their amendments and they are still proposing them, hundreds and hundreds, so that citizens know why it is so that we can't have a discussion in particular by any law except this first one that's on the agenda and that's just the first three members. So, if the citizens of Serbia knew why these false amendments were submitted that simply, no law on the agenda could be discussed. As for, of course, on the other hand, the topic I was already talking about, I have indeed remained unfair to one very important subject. Why do I not trust Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, that these new legal solutions will change anything when it comes to solving the problem of urban chaos and wild construction. On the contrary, I claim that everything will remain the same and that it will only legalize itself, that is to say, the laws so far of wild construction and crime and corruption. One of the evidence that I am giving, to put it this way, is a fellow former MP, Aleksandar Vucic, raised, you will remember, that prison prison robe of Mladjan Dinkic, who promised him that as soon as he came to power, Mladjan Dinkic in prison, and then Mladjan Dinkic, as you remember, ended up in the government of Aleksandar Vukic, not in prison. So if someone has that kind of false promise, how can you trust them more after that? So this is simply about one open mistrust with one authority that lied to all the basics it promised when it came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46574	Thank you. Vladimir Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46575	Right to replication and mention of the party. He says the co-ordinator of the tycoon-Ijotic Association, new and favorite infantryman Dragan Gilas, that amendments are being submitted here for some reasons that he will now explain to everyone. He didn't have to work so hard, we don't want him to sweat, if he's already done for the session it's explained in detail by Marinika Tepic, his good colleague from that same association and bearer of the same values, they explained it well from N1 TV and their NUNS. So, not everyone to whom he now belongs so well politically and with whom he agrees, above all by value, is likely those values of the rape call. Right, coordinator? That's the value of calling the hangers to the Terrace. That's right, coordinator. It's all familiar stuff. For his information, he doesn't know it, and the citizens need to hear it. Last session of the National Assembly, and the preceding session ended with the time for discussion not being used. They could have talked here for hours about whatever the members of the tycoon-lyotic association wanted, but they don't care. So they're in other places, they're gathering in 10, 20 numbers, wandering around like headless streets, from one place to another, in Serbia they can't get more than 10 listeners anywhere, but that's what they do, instead of discussing. Well, when they say they don't have time to know what's true, they have as much time as they want, but they don't know what they're gonna do with themselves. There are times, however, that some things that are not clear to this coordinator are further clarified. If he thinks the worst of the SNS, if he thinks we're criminals, thieves, what he's already told, then how does he explain what his life wish is, apparently, that he's working with us. He says we're ready to co-operate with the SNS in Chačka. Here, a nice picture (shows a picture), guess whose. But the main problem seems to be that you, the one he's talking about, the hour like this, the hour like this, doesn't seem to, and he can't live with it. The same problem was, you know, Gilas, both Jeremic and Stefanovic, etc., everyone else. So, as far as we're concerned, our position is clear, we with the worst of the worst, we have nothing, and we don't want to have anything, and as far as these stories are concerned, what anyone thinks about KIM, the United States, and other big topics, is not the question of what we think and what we've said about these things, the question is what the coordinator, the best friend of Dragan Gilas, his tycoon-Ljutić Association said. This is what he said about his society, this is what he said about the people he belongs to now, so he seems to be, this is exactly what he joined (shows paper) and this is what he's co-ordinated in the National Assembly today, he himself decided to be, as he said, to be the American SCOY. Congratulations to U.S. Ski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46576	Thank you. A colleague of Obradovic answered. You don't have a basis for replication, I can tell you by amendment. Your colleague Orlic did not mention you, nor did he mention the name of your party, and I do not recognize you in any coalition, alliance or tycoon-lyotic initiative. That's where I don't recognize you. If you'd like, would you like to report for the amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46577	I thank the chairman. I want to respect the domestic manufacturers of construction products that came to us, so I'll read it. So – stinky buildings, cracked walls, uneven landings, fallen tiles, fired August, fell facades. These are our real problems and our everyday lives. There is a general chaos on the market with these types of building materials that are very often from imports. Atesti, standards and others as if they do not apply to foreign producers selling their products in Serbia, and there is simply not enough control and quality, and the biggest problem is chemicals and additives. It is necessary to introduce order and prohibit any type of mixing and favouring of such products and all products must simply pass the check before installation into the facilities, rather than be sure of their quality when problems occur. In particular, protection and affirmation of domestic products and regulation of uncontrolled imports should be carried out when we have enough good products. The price is not crucial when it comes to such materials. A lot of foreign contractors are building around Serbia, there's a lot of freedom in choosing materials and all that without any control. The contract must accurately provide for the type and quality of the materials and equipment for the product, seek guarantees for the job well done and start it if there is a problem. The various types of materials on the construction sites for the embankments must be tested, approved prior to installation, so that disaster does not occur as on the Lijkovac-Ub stock, where the highway crashes, the rash is irrigated due to the clayy material of full water, the uncontrollable extraction of gravel material by water streams and coastal disturbances, and there is a flood. Uncontrollably cutting through the woods, and just for the heat, and not to mention the other reasons, here's our slide. Serbia must protect its products from ceramics, from geo-composite materials, they can wait for import tiles because we have homework. It is necessary to introduce the responsibility of the performer and the obligation that the investor must have responsibility for all the deficiencies and non-quality material he uses. In this case alone, it will be built on the general satisfaction of both investors and supervisory authorities, in this case the state of Serbia. There is a concern that this also endangers the business of a number of domestic companies that do not have the means to follow the imposed standards of new laws that are selectively applied and that this will favour foreign companies. Far from not introducing standardisation, but before that it is also necessary to enable the competitiveness of domestic enterprises. I'll just use it to ask the chairman to withdraw the warning he gave me, because the citizens are looking at this and it'll turn out that you too support that KIM are not part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46578	Nothing's going to happen to a colleague. You heard my attitude. I'm standing right behind him, and that's how I'm gonna keep going. Marijan Rističević, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, by amendment? Then just wait for Minister Mihajlovic to say first. Here you are, Minister Prof. Dr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46579	You're wrong when you say not to apply standards, that if a foreign company produces some construction products, then no standards are applied, but some foreign standards, etc. You're wrong about that, because they apply to all construction products, whether they're manufactured here, whether they're imported, our Serbian standards apply, and that's the law. So this law regulates an additional option for our companies that produce construction products so that they can appear on a foreign market, much more than they had the opportunity. How, for example, have they now appeared, some in other markets outside Serbia? By having their own companies set up there, so they got licenses in accredited laboratories and so they could show up, and we want them to have the possibility of being accredited here and being able to get out of Serbia construction products. One of the reasons for this law. So you're simply wrong when you say that the government is a mess and that no one lives to control anything and that standards are not applied. Serbian standards apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46580	The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe the colleague is an expert in construction material for two reasons. The first reason is, I don't count on the microphone pulling, I don't know if this is building material, but she skillfully pulled it out at the table while the chairman of Maja Gojkovic chaired it. The second reason is that she's a third-degree master. These Ljoticians don't like Masons, but on the right, there's a free builder sitting on the right, and I believe that as a third-degree master, he even decides on construction materials, sixers, skulls, stone, widow's bags, etc., tableclothes. She is the President of the Court of Honor of the Great Women's Lodge in Serbia. So when someone's talking about rudeness, as her boss says, it's top-notch to me, to speak ill of the Masons, and all the time on your right, there's a free builder, third-degree master. We all remember that it is understood in building material as a stone-bearing stone, when it was introduced by that stone that was a rock to press the cabbage, but the stone was a building material. So I believe she knows it well, and she learned it during her time on the Democratic Party of Serbia page, while in Indjia, where I was transferred to the Water Administration as president of the Assembly because I opposed wild construction. There was a construction plant for recycling lead batteries "Monbat", without a building permit, was subsequently obtained on the waterway. They supported it, and that's why I've been relieved. They supported the construction of the "Energo-Green", which was launched without a building permit. Even the parcel hasn't been bought yet, so I'm not talking about the price. Her roommate took a direct part in it. Her name is Srpko Medenica. The damages request today from Belgians for "Energo-Green" is 130m euros. That's how they understand building materials. In the end, an object called "Tradiunique" was built in the centre of Indjija. It's a 30,000-square business-room facility, without a building permit, in which the municipality, I've already been removed, bought several thousand squares at the price of 2,300 euros, rough works, so it's still not finished, in which the non-existent department of the Technical Faculty is opened, etc. I believe that it is very well understood in the building material, since it has been silent all the time and today kept silent about it, but the money from the municipality, in which the president was Goran Jesic, lay at the expense of an organisation called "My Indjija". Look at the wonders, that organization was registered at her home address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46582	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46583	Mr. Chairman, I must point out to article 108 that the National Assembly's session is being held by the president of the National Assembly. I don't know how you could have let Mr. Marijan Risticevic, always insulting Minister Zorana Mihajlović, saying that she is a Mason, that she is a free builder and how she sits with your free builder and Mason? All the time, speaking to you, he talked about Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and about her being a free builder and a masseuse and being part of some secret societies. I don't know how you even let him speak this much and insult the minister in this way? I know that Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic is a member of the Trilateral Commission and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46584	Kola Obradovic, nor was the topic of the discussion Marijana Risticevic was Minister Mihajlovic... Your discussion doesn't make sense. You can talk about whatever you want, it's not controversial, I'll give you my word, but really in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, state how I put it at risk and hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. Don't mention now who's a member of what, what kind of society. I really don't know anything about it and, please, we're dealing with politics here and let's discuss the policy of these laws, the amendments that are on our agenda today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46585	Mr. Chairman, I've been very specific and let me just explain it to the end. I have a very positive intention to protect Mrs. Secretary from slander. So, counterpart Marijan Risticevic reported for an apparition on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. He spoke to you all the time as chairman and spoke about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and said that this person, sitting on your right, is a masseuse and participates in some secret societies. You didn't react to that. You didn't protect the minister's dignity or maybe the minister's really a masseuse and we don't know that? We from the Dvori claimed that in the Government of the Republic, there are more Masons and I can list them if you will, if it pleases you, but I didn't really know about Mrs Zorana Mihajlović. I knew he was a member of the Trilateral Commission, but that's another topic. So, what I'm saying is, it's your responsibility when someone says that whoever's sitting on your right is a masseuse, he's like this, he's stealing, he doesn't know what he's doing, you have to protect Mrs. Minister from Marijan Risticevic. He started attacking you from the government, not just us from the opposition. I don't know what he's doing to you anymore. He's confused. He thinks he's on the farm.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46586	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. I owe you an explanation. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. What I know and what the whole public knows and what I can tell you, when you mentioned it, as someone who works closely with Minister Mihajlović, I know that he builds roads, I know that he adopts and proposes reform laws and works consecratedly for his country. I don't know. I don't know. I don't care. We're here to have a political debate. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Bosko Obradović: Yes. ) National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask Ljotic not to be angry and ask him to listen carefully. I didn't know Mrs. Mihalovic lived in Indjia. I didn't know Mrs. Mihajlovic had brought a stone into this assembly. I thought it was some person sitting on his right. I didn't even say the Masons were bad. I don't know. I have repeated this several times -- I don't know, but these Ljotics, as he says, claimed it was bad and attacked the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Brnabic that there are two ministers in her cabinet, while sitting on his right hand the person, the master of the third-degree large women's lodge of Serbia and the president of the court of honor, sat. Now, I didn't know that Gilas had disrupted his level of understanding, understanding, etc., but, my God, he didn't answer the question yesterday how did this remain during some Mr. Obradovic's unlisted facilities and how much of the construction material in Chačka of 97,000? I think Mr. Obradovic has one big problem. He's changed suddenly. People have the right to change, it's not controversial, but it forbids other people to change their attitude. He has the legitimate right to go to the great master of Gilas, the millionaire. He can ask about reality, because he introduced it. As far as the farm is concerned, I came from the farm today and every day I come from the farm, and he shares this Djordjet Vukadinovic's view that the peasants have no right, it seems, to be in the Assembly, but it speaks of him. In the end, he's changed so much... The Dwri sign has been this, and lately, since he went to Gilas, his sign is this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46588	Thank you. Comrade Rističević, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Marian Risticevic: No. ) My colleague LJubica Mrdaković Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I hope we come back after the subject, to end this plot of Roman cuisine, of Masons, of Illuminati, rather than to move on to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46589	Article 107, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why you've given a word to an organization coordinator twice, and why didn't you interrupt him in his oligophrenic comments? We are not obliged to endure here anyone's mental violence and to suffer and experience someone's complexes and frustrations. Please sanction such behavior and such speech in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46590	Thank you, colleague Mrdakovic. You know I'd like everyone to talk about the agenda, but it's not possible. (Maria Janjušević: Replica. ) The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the 567 amendments to the First Law. Perhaps the Honorable Madam Minister does not know that there are 567 amendments to the first law, three have been accepted and of those 567 amendments... I ask my colleagues from the SRS to be just as quiet when I speak, as quiet as I am when they speak. Thank you, colleagues. So, why the 567 amendments proposed this Assembly, it would mean that maybe that law isn't good, but the other thing here is much more important. Mrs. Minister is constantly able to bring some confusion into the thought process of those MPs who listen to her, no matter how confusing they are or not. In fact, five or ten minutes ago, she said that it doesn't matter who the party is, and five minutes before that she said, that's how yours do, and this is how we do it. I'm here a little bit in confusion now, because I don't know who these people are now, because in this country mostly believe the newspapers, yesterday was in the "Kurure" article on eight floors of wild construction, I think of Voždovec, the building was moved, 50 apartments without permission, said they were pulled apart in due time by a construction inspection, a yellow tape, the next day taken down, the tenants live there. Whose, Madam Minister, did they build that building? Ours, yours? I don't know, but how are we gonna end this wild building, that's what I'm interested in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46592	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46593	You know what they're called all those who work that way? They're called one name: lawless builders. Therefore, there are exactly the institutions that are doing their job. Some facilities are in the jurisdiction of cities and municipalities, some facilities are in the jurisdiction of the state, or the ministry, exactly the procedures, and these amendments and additions of the Law are for those who are arrogantly acting and building still illegally.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46594	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46595	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you're starting to seriously apply the Rules of Procedure even though you're applicable to a man who's rather evading here, let's say, the strictest application when it comes to warnings, but I think you've had to act now. The minister does not bring any confusion into this esteemed House, nor does he have any confusion when it comes to us who want good to this country. He mentioned the previous speaker and the amendment promoter all that yours and ours did, and at first the question arises whether it is even moral to discuss the amendment coming from the parliamentary group, which has been calling for the first fight, rape, hanging, we have heard today and the solution to the problem of illegal construction by destroying? And now, one clear question arises whether such amendments should be discussed at all? When it comes to yours and ours, mentioned by an esteemed colleague, so here's what we can easily distinguish. When it comes to, let me say, this current government, when I say ours, then we mean the people's power, the power that this people have chosen, here's how things are. Today Serbia is the tenth in the world at the speed of issuing construction permits, today Serbia is a country in which you have more than 30,000 construction sites compared to those hundreds that were active in Serbia when theirs were in power, i.e. The one who's their boss today, Mr. Gilas. At the time they were theirs, Serbia legalized for the entire 17 years of 150,000 buildings, correct me minister if I'm wrong, and from 2015 until today, 183 thousand illegally built objects. So it's not the intensity of destroying objects, which Bosko Obradovic and the people of the Alliance are calling for, but to legalise and bring things into order in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46596	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Milimir Vujadinovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word is Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46597	I thank the chairman. You've injured Article 104. I had the right to a replica without even talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46598	On the replica of Dr. Vesovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46599	On the count of ministers, you forgot, because the minister said I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46600	We've moved on to the next amendment, colleague, I must remind you of that. (Maria Janjušević: Yes, but you did not allow me...) We've moved on to the next amendment, then you can go back two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46601	You've also injured Article 27. You allow the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to be used as replicas. You allow here someone who's from Subotica, where their throats are ripped and their concrete shoes are made, to talk about violence. To be clear, we are not calling for the destruction of objects, we are calling for the introduction of order. One more thing, thank you for talking so much about the Alliance for Serbia, with so much hysteria, because you are accidentally showing what your fear of the Alliance for Serbia, which will prevent the sale of Kosovo and Metohija, above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46602	My colleague, I'm taking up your time from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Marijan Rističević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46603	Mr. Chairman, Article 107, 108, 109. You had to re-prove the warning measure. It is said here that we are selling Kosovo again. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your tolerance to the lady, the Orthodoxly free builder's person, she can come at any moment to rip out that microphone in front of you, she can come in with some rock to stone you, etc., she can come in with a sixth hand and a sword to pick out "dvorniks". I appreciate that you have a dose of caution, given that from what has been seen since the previous speaker, Marija Janjusevic, you must also take care of personal safety. If I were you, I'd be terrified, too, 'cause it's possible that he'll do something any minute now. Mr. Chairman, we didn't sell Kosovo. Kosovo sold them. At the time she was a member of another party, her current boss received 50,000 euros from Kolubara to remain silent. In 2008, the contract fell personally between Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, those are their coalition partners, "the union of thieves and frauds" as we now call it modern, the contract fell, and that's good news for the Vikilixes. The contract's down. They asked the US Embassy to delay Kosovo's declaration of independence until Boris Tadic is elected in the second round as president of the Republic of Serbia. The US Embassy, let them ask that Brian Martin who contacted them, came out to meet Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, "the union of thieves, frauds, frauds and peljesanovic". Boris Tadic took the oath, I think, on February 14th, and Albanians declared independence 17. Plus, the International Court of Justice, plus the replacement resolution. So they and their allies sold Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46604	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. As far as my personal security is concerned, I have full confidence in the service of the MUP that works at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Marian Risticevic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46605	Nothing, simply the chairman, I have the need to say about these across the street uninformed that the problem of illegal construction of residential buildings has not taken place since the time of Minister Mihajlovic and this government. It's a decades-old problem, if you didn't know. It is very interesting that the issue when Belgrade is concerned, and of course other cities in Serbia, including my city Nis, when it comes to the construction sector, the problem has arisen, we all know it well, at the time of the "yellow company" and at the time of the government of Dragan Gilas, his semitrons and listeners, when they deliberately set up the legislation so that their friends and friends can not pay 90% of the value of the building land, to build wherever they want and wherever they want, which, of course, Gilas made it possible for them at that time. In this way, citizens remained damaged and empty pockets for hundreds of millions of euros, not to mention interest, the total amount. So they could ask themselves how much money it could have been, say, school to build, kindergarten to renovate, health institutions, free school packages for children, etc. I would recommend these demagogues on the opposite side to overlap with their ears and to keep their mouths shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46606	Thank you, colleague Mrdakovic Todorovic. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really don't react unless someone with their exposure really offends me. I don't think you have to know what the previous speaker said now, that we're called half-trons and obedients, I've heard a lot and I don't find it hard. But two minutes ago, from the same colleague to the MP group being called oligophrene, I'll tell you next. Oligofrenoity – mental retardation, mental retardation and weakness. I'm really upset about what a healthcare professional can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46608	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I really didn't hear that moment when my colleague said, if she did, and mentioned that term you mentioned. Anyway, I'm gonna ask for a stenographic note to be delivered to me, to see that, and thank you for pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) I will determine what you said during the session and thank you for showing me. I call upon all the People's Messengers to treat each other and treat each other with all due respect. Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46609	Oligophrenicity is a broader term. I spoke figuratively, and as colleagues have recognized themselves, that's already their problem. I have no problem telling the truth, if it offends anyone, but sometimes things should be called the right name, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46610	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. According to the amendment, the word is Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46611	Dear Chairman, I really cannot believe that you have failed to hear what we have now had the opportunity to hear again, which is that in such a scandalous way, a fellow MP is addressing his fellow Members in this honored home of the National Assembly. If you haven't heard well from my colleague Vesovic, I will read to you once again what oligophrenia is – mental retardation, mental retardation, faintness of mind. So that's what a colleague from the Serbian Progressive Party said directly about her colleagues on the opposite side, so, from the opposition, and you haven't responded, and then we talk about anything and any insult and any kind of, so to speak, mental and other violence in the House of the National Assembly and in our society at all. Now it's exactly an example of what I'm telling you. The Serbian Progressive Party has never apologized, nor has it apologized to the Greeks in Subotica, nor for the concrete shoes of Bogdan Laban, nor for the assholes, fools, traitors and scum that Alexander Vukic keeps talking about. When will the Serbian Progressive Party stop insulting its political opponents and opposition? Is it possible that you're letting someone in the opposition call us mentally retarded? Please, has anyone ever called their colleagues at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia mentally retarded? What else do we have to experience from the ruling majority, who has an absolute majority here and who can do what they want to do to us, who throws us out of the session, who shuts down our microphones, who punishes us? In the end, we're mentally retarded. You expect someone from the opposition to have respect for you. How? How do we respect you when you treat the opposition that way? You're the majority, you have all the power in your hands, you can make any decision by majority vote. We can't hurt you in that way, but why are you insulting us? Did the Minister react? Well, of course not. Her colleague here, Marija Janjusevic, has been offended, and she is mentally retarded. And this isn't violence against women, Mrs. Mihajlovic? Now you'll be quiet because she's a woman from the Serbian Dvori Movement. She can be harassed, she can be insulted, she can be punished, and no woman from the Serbian Progressive Party should. That's what's unfair, that's what's unfair, that's why we in the Dvora are rebelling and that's what we don't let you do. We do not allow you to trample on our dignity, to insult your political opponents, to treat those who have the right, you have to understand, we have the right to freedom of thought, to freedom of speech, to freedom of assembly. You can't insult us that way. This is a scandal over scandals. This is not for warning, this is for disfellowshipping from the session. This is unworthy of this House. This is an unworthy parliamentary function. Who in power can afford to call the opposition mentally retarded? Where's that going? What do you expect from the other side? To suffer such humiliation? To put up with our dignity? Do you not allow us to speak at all and hear a different opinion? That for more than half a year, no opposition leader can host any political show in this country? What's the name of that system? We put up with it all, and in the end you still call us mentally retarded. Where's the border? Where's the end? What else are we going to experience? After Bogdan Laban and his throats and concrete shoes, even though we're mentally retarded and we're all scum, assholes, thieves, tycoons, traitors, as Alexander Vukic calls us every day. Is he the president of all citizens? Is he and our president, or is he just the president of the Serbian Progressive Party? How long are you going to insult us? How long are you going to step on our dignity? And then how do you expect us not to react? How do you expect us not to protect our dignity? We won't let you step on us. I won't let you do that. The Dvori are not afraid of the Serbian Progressive Party and that is your problem with the Dvori. You don't have us in affairs, you don't have us in drawers, you can't blackmail us. We're not part of any criminal story, and many of you are. And that's why you can only insult us. You said the worst thing about me personally, and I robbed the Hilandar. I'm asking how they take me to that Hilandar monastery if I robbed him? (President: Time.) And that we're women, and that we're agents of the CIA, and there's nothing you didn't say. But the fact that we're mentally retarded, that's really the highlight and the shame and shame, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46612	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Like I said, I'm going to look for a rock note and I'm going to ask to see what that word termologically means. Anyway, we'll check it out. Neither I have the intention, nor any of the presidents, nor any of the ruling majority to humiliate and insult anyone, and I agree with you, absolutely should not allow it, so don't worry about it at all. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46613	Excuse me, let me ask you something, since you're so in the heat of your human rights struggle, women's rights, you're talking about, what's a hanging call? I don't understand. What's in your jargon, in your dictionary call for hanging? Probably something nice. You're talking about President Alexander Vukic being president of all citizens. Yes, it is, and then at the same time you're calling for his murder. What are you talking about? So, you're talking about how you're not in any affair, etc., so you know that Serbian proverb -- who you're with. You're with Gilas, with Jeremic, with Stamatovic, and what are they? So, Mr. Bradovich, when you talk, you have double arches. Every violence is, of course, violence. That's not at all controversial. To remind you, you are the ones who are calling for the hanging of the Prime Minister, you are the ones who are calling for the murder of the president of Serbia, and then you are talking about how much you take care of the citizens of Serbia. Please don't. Don't. No need to yell, I think we can hear you all well. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46614	You don't have the right to a replica, pal. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46615	Thank you. I belong neither to these nor to those, nor to yours, nor to ours. I am now coming from a gathering of members of the Engineering Chamber and I belong to the citizens of Serbia and to all those who have been trying all this time to trap the authorities regarding these laws to implement and to carry out their jobs with great success. The lawless builders, as the minister said, are called the lawless builders, and if institutions were doing their jobs, I would say first and foremost that the lawless builders are doing their job, and institutions are not preventing them from doing so, and therefore we have this kind of rush of illegal construction, which cannot be solved by this law. But let's go back to the draft law on construction products that I've submitted the amendment to. This law really shows all the inconsistencies of the laws relating to construction. Let's say that the bill promoter didn't recognize, since the law did, that other than construction products, there are some construction assemblies, so the whole technology sets that are actually called construction products and they're not listed in the law. So these aren't even simple objects prefabricated, like trafostations or something, and our proposal was to expand Article 1 with construction production assemblies. As I said, it's very simple that these pre-fabricated products are being treated, and let's just say, we have for large technology systems, objects where all the power of technology is being placed in a small facility, which actually represent one construction product, and in fact they're building blocks. And the reason why this is not included in this law on construction products, as I said, is inconsistencies, inconsistencies, and a very high tightness of the Law on Planning and Construction, where housing is treated exclusively, very few of these others, and therefore such mistakes occur in these other laws. In addition, it is not so important, it is very important that these are construction products, which can be used on this market, but in this law are not treated, other than technical characteristics, nor technical conditions under which these construction products can be built, because it is very important that the companies that use these construction products, whether these are some phantom companies, which were founded a day, two or before, or those are professional companies, which can really handle these construction products in the right way. So, I'm still staying with what I said in principle, the law isn't good enough, it doesn't have the preconditions to be good, I wouldn't repeat them again, except for that restitution and everything else that goes along with it, other than catastra, it means in this technical part, which isn't just about planning, and it's about this bill on construction products, it's not defined enough, so that it can be implemented properly. All these inconsistencies of this law and this part relating to all the honors of the Engineering Chamber, I have come from the rally of engineers, and I have to ask the minister about it, as we expect that and in law it was given that the court of honor will now conduct the Engineering Chamber - why, so far, for these many years, has the Ministry never appointed eight members of the Court of Honor of the Engineering Chamber, which should come from the ranks of the Ministry? So, until now, all these years, you haven't appointed those members as a court of honor, and now you're going to take over to be a court of honor and to withdraw those licenses. Then I didn't even see that there was a code in this law that would take those licenses away. That code exists only in the Engineering Chamber. So you'll be withdrawing licenses from the Ministry based on the code of the Engineering Chamber, and what if the Engineering Chamber cancels that code? What is the legal basis by which you can take away your licenses from engineers if they abuse their profession? That's what I'd really like to get in response to the question, because so far, I haven't received any answers from the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46616	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46617	I think it is important that as many times as it takes to explain everything that is related to Serbia's Engineering Chamber. And here's the chance, since you asked a question, let's get on with it. So, Serbia's Engineering Chamber was founded in 2003. At the time, the minister was Dragoslav Šumarac and then the ministry's affairs were entrusted to the engineering chamber. So she got the opportunity to issue licenses, take licenses, make all those expert exams, that all engineers pay membership fees to stay, or to continue to have licenses. About 30,000 engineers different, of course, kind of licenses. It was all published in some previous period. What was going on in the meantime? It happened that a small handful of people had completely blocked the work first of all, the engineering chamber, that we had situations that had not been issued at all, that we had serious problems in the functioning of the engineering chamber itself at all. Thus, when you have one such blockade in the work of an engineering chamber, then it is normal to have a blockade in one part of the implementation and implementation of infrastructure projects. I see that many pains this story, first of all, that a small handful of people, that they are in a lot of pain that the reissue of licenses and the possible withdrawal of licenses will be transferred, i.e. to return as a job to the Ministry, which was until 2003. I fully understand that it has nothing to do with the profession, but it has nothing to do with only interests and money, about a million euros is divided on the basis of membership revenues only. The information for all engineers is that there will be no membership fee when the Engineering Chamber, i.e. when licensing, is withdrawn as part of the Ministry. The engineering chamber isn't shutting down, that's not true. So it's nowhere to be presented by this law. There will be jobs to be carried out by Serbia's Engineering Chamber, certainly, but I am also sure that we will protect the profession and not deal with politics, because this is now a pure political story, DS, Dragoslav Šumarca, DS Vice President or already part of the Alliance for Serbia. It has nothing to do with the profession. They shared jobs, they shared membership fees, there was no involvement in anything. The ministry tried to take over certain jobs twice, 90 days in the Engineering Chamber, only when the licensing stopped, because they did not issue licenses for a year and for this reason the Ministry took over the job. So now we're gonna get jurisdiction back to where they belong, and that's the Ministry. And to do the profession, because the profession is number one, not the policy that the DS is doing to us. I can talk a lot more about the Engineering Chamber...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46618	Time, thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46619	Thank you. I am a member of that chamber since its establishment, and I really have no reason to defend the interests of Dragoslav Šumarca, especially since his law is slightly better than yours, and otherwise a very unusable law that we have hardly implemented in practice. So, I'm the one who's fighting for the profession here, and I don't think the Engineering Chamber in any way should be the place of political struggle between the current ruling coalition and the DS. The leaderships are replaceable, Dragoslav Šumarac, as are all others who implement their policies, however, are not replaceable members of the Engineering Chamber and if someone should be the one to carry out a protest or to change their leadership, the Engineering Chamber, then it is more than 30,000 members of the Engineering Chamber. I am truly sure that the engineering chamber should not be a place to fight the opposing political parties, but should be an independent professional association, not to be formed as a public enterprise and absolutely no one can execute the court of honor and withdraw the license better than more than 30,000 members of the Engineering Chamber. I must point out once again, I am the one who defends the profession, because I am also a member of the Engineering Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46620	Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46621	I really don't know how good those laws were from Dragoslav Šumarac when we were 184 on the World Bank's list of building permits, and we had 1,000 construction sites on the entire territory of Serbia. So they weren't good laws. But what you're talking about, the engineering chamber and the members, first of all, the engineering chamber isn't being shut down, I really don't know and who won't be in the engineering chamber by the engineers, so, of course, there'll be all the engineers in the engineering chamber and what's the fear? Why the fear of checking from time to time is everything in accordance with the law? What's the problem? Why the fear of all those who are now in the Engineering Chamber that someone will look at what they've signed. Don't tell us about how you're protecting yourself behind the profession and how fantastic everything is, and we have a situation where we have engineers on one side of the road who have signed a bunch of projects, where we're taking off that road now. This is what Ub-Lykovac looks like, it's engineers at the Engineering Chamber, I'm sorry, one of the engineers who signed it. So we take off two and a half meters. So it's not a colorful lie and it's not a story just like that. So these are also engineers who have licenses of the Engineering Chamber. Let us once separate what is good, what is quality and what is professional from those who deal with politics and earn on the back of some other engineers who are worthy. That's what we want, the waist in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46622	By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46623	Very short. I don't have the impression that someone here is fighting honestly for these engineering chambers and for engineers. The day before when we talked about the principle debate, and here it started and now, somehow it all comes down to Dragoslav Šmarca. As for us from the SRS, Dragoslav Šumarac did not stay in our good memory. He was the one who allowed illegal construction, he tried his basic laws and with five, six, seven amendments to that law something like that, and each time he only created even greater possibilities and conditions for illegal construction. So, I don't think there's anything here that should be a part of the debate based just on the name of Dragoslav Šumarca, on engineering chambers and even engineers in chambers -- yes. We do not see any difference between Zorana Mihajlović and Dragoslav Šumarac, except that Zorana paints in blue and Dragoslav Šumarac in black.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46624	By amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46625	I don't think the Minister listened well to what I said. First of all, I said that the laws of Dragoslav Šmarca were extraordinary, on the contrary, I said that it might be better for a shade than this law of yours. So it was a bad law too, and I have no reason to defend Dragoslav Schmartz, the former minister of resistors on whom you are now. I think I should continue to defend the interests of engineers. No one has said that the Engineering Chamber will be abolished, but it is important, indeed, that the Court of Honor should be in the Engineering Chamber and that absolutely no one can convince me otherwise. I think there's a license to be audited. I think that first of all you need to see who's doing something in the profession and who's not working in the profession, but you have to accept this, too. Something very strange is happening in construction, young people have nowhere to learn the job, companies have fallen apart. It's not easy for them to get to work. It's not easy for them to get those licenses, and then someone needs to do a review at the time when the work for the domestic builders is only there when you like to ruin jobs and then they need to bring in the objects of purpose, these professional engineers who can't get jobs in the set-up tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46626	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am surprised by some of my fellow MPs who seem to even know the constitutional and legal position of the National Assembly, the Government and the Ministries, so under some, I guess, the political pretext that this famous Engineering is some professional association - is not. No, and don't lie to me. So the Law on the Engineering Chamber was passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It was written by the then Ministry of Planning and Urbanism, the government adopted it as a proposal. She authorized the Schumart to come here to the National Assembly to defend the law he wrote for himself. That's true. He knew how good the minister was, he knew that the DOS government was coming to an end in 2003, so let him secure another source of income for himself. Now let's ask a constitutional legal question. The issue of a licence is a public document. In order for someone to issue a public order, they must have public authority. Public authority shall have state authorities, state agencies, the Bar Association in accordance with the Law on Lawyerry and its constitutional legal position under Article 67. The constitution, but the Chamber of Engineering is not a constitutional category, but the National Assembly has transferred one part of the authority entrusted to the Ministry to the Engineering Chamber. The National Assembly continues to work through the Ministry responsible for overseeing the Engineering Chamber. What are you surprised at now? Who authorized the engineering chamber to issue licenses? The National Assembly. Dragoslav Šumarac abused the congregation's majority at the time and gave himself the right to sign licenses to engineers as public documents, apart from the ministry he ran. And those were abuses. That's why you take the money, you pay the membership fee. We had one more time when they tried professional associations in accounting and audits to use public authority, so they made circuses, cotations, seminars and all kinds of other nonsense so that someone could run a STR. There was an engineering chamber on that road. Did they fail the exam? They did. Well, it wasn't the ministry that did the project work, or set up a project mission, or did a project task above that tunnel in the Gredile ravine, but it was those same engineers. Well, wait, you can nod your head, some engineer had to sign it, based on some license. I'm sorry, for signing that, you have to answer for it. Don't defend anything that just doesn't make sense anymore. Nor is the Engineering Chamber a constitutional category. We let her be legal. It still fits the National Assembly and needs to be changed and it needs to be reduced powers, that job should be done by the ministry, it suits us. We have nothing to do with this Engineering Chamber, absolutely nothing, and there's absolutely no right to have our original powers entrusted to us, entrusted to us by citizens in the elections, transferred to Dragoslav Šumarac and someone of his professional authority that has nothing to do with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46628	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is Sonja Pavlovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46629	My colleague Arsic, you've become very angry as if you're a member of the Engineering Chamber or the Minister of Construction, I don't understand such anger, and other project tasks are not signed by engineers, project tasks are done by investors. So, the investor has given some engineer a project task that may not be feasible for realisation, especially in a short period of time and in a way that cannot be realized. So, I doubt those hijacked licenses, but I don't want to talk about anything in advance, there are some people who would do great business with it, and I think they're members of the Engineering Chamber, but so we don't have this whole law that we're talking about, or a package of laws to implement the problem of the Engineering Chamber, and in fact, the laws are bad. If the laws were good, we wouldn't even have a problem with the Engineering Chamber, I suggest, now I suggest we go back to the subject and talk about the law on which the amendments are now submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46630	Thank you. Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46631	You know, I find that very interesting when you set the whole story the way it is – well, let's talk about something else now. And, that, on those licenses, should be discussed by engineers from the Engineering Chamber. Well, it's over with that story. It's over, no more public authority, let's get this over with. Wait for the law to be passed first. Here, we'll vote. I'm 99% sure there won't be any more and no one will be able to charge the racket for real engineers. No one will be able to do it anymore, like the Engineering Chamber did. The racket is a membership fee, it's a racket, nothing else, illegal. You can bring in sublaws all you want, why? So Dragoslav Šumarac can receive another 300,000 or 400,000 dinars as president, what else? What did he deserve to be president of that chamber? Just by passing the law and defending it? Did he deserve it as a former minister? It's not. And now he is a member of some "government in the shade" as my colleague Marijan Risticevic says. Whatever's alive, whatever they've got, they've ruined it. Now you say - this law is bad, it might be a little better. Well, maybe it's a lot better, so time will tell. But the ones you've been sitting with have been making a lot of bad laws, that time shows, inapplicable, that's why we're changing them. One more thing, you can attack as much as you want, we don't have that problem, time in each of your attacks deny you, events deny you. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Start taking politics a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46632	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Sonja Pavlovic, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46633	My colleague Arsic, I just hope that when it rains again, because it happens all the time, that there's a support wall in the Gredel ravine, and it's all going to be denied what you just said, you'll be sorry for it, because nobody's moved the hill from the end to the end so it's over. So, all this stuff you said you were right in one thing, time will deny you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46634	The right to a replica, Veroljub Arsic, and Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46635	Just so anything else doesn't fall on someone's head, we're passing one of these laws. The fact that something falls on someone's head or could fall on their heads is because of the one you're defending right now. One more thing, he knew he was making bad laws for one simple reason, nothing could fall on his head because nothing was done. Nothing, nothing could fall, only to be hit by a package of 300,000, 400,000 a month. What were you doing? Nothing. Where have you been? Nowhere. Someone honors you for writing the law. That's what fell on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46636	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46637	I keep listening to your story about the Gredile ravine and some hills, etc. First, no hill moves, that's number one. Number two, you mentioned an organ change here inside the Engineering Chamber. Yeah, they were supposed to change a long time ago, but among other things, they couldn't even conduct the election by the rules. Well, since they couldn't make the election by the rules, they even used their various relatives to leave the entire management in the Engineering Chamber, so we could go back to that engineering chamber. So, to be clear again, the waist comes first, engineers come first. But there are rules and there are laws that must be respected in that sense. Someone's signing projects, too. You're not right at all, the investor defines the project task, that's true, but every project that's done corresponds to his name and his license for the project. Therefore, we will talk below, there have been many projects that have unfortunately been signed, which is why now the state has to allocate extra money to solve these problems. So, starting with Ub-Lykovac, let's not talk between the other and the hair you mentioned. I think it's even incorrect to tell the truth that the hill is moving, because today everyone suddenly knows everything about the Gredile ravine, today all of a sudden all the geniuses are about what needs to be done in the Throat. Number two, to be absolutely clear, by name and by name there are people who have made projects, who have signed them, who have stood behind these projects and all of them and how they should be checked. Because if someone does a project after which something falls, then we have a problem, that project is wrong. They're the same people who represent, just like my colleague Arsic said, the people you defend. I hope it looks completely different in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46638	Thank you. My colleague Pavlovic, I'd like to finish the debate. The minister answered all your questions and Mr. Arsic replicated. Here, according to the amendment, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46639	Thank you. I'm gonna say it one more time, I'm not defending anyone, and I don't need to defend anyone. The fact that you said you singled out additional funds to complete new projects for some poorly-worked projects, yes, I'm working on such projects right now, where I have to correct the mistakes of the poorly-worked projects of those who have received these projects in the staged tenders. So the problem is very clear to me. But I will never understand how someone can change other people's projects 12 times, 5, 10, 12 times without being consulted. So, first of all, we can talk here about the Law on Planning and Construction, we can also talk about the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, so there's no way that any project can be changed without the consent of the designer who was doing the project. That's what I'd like, I hope that your expertise will show it and that all of what we're saying by heart right now, because we don't hear people's names, or who's been changing, or who's been doing these projects, we're all talking in our minds. But I don't know what the radio surveillance was about? I absolutely don't know what the radio surveillance you're guarding from Corridors is, so let's see what these people are doing here. How could they allow the change of project? How can any project be changed in the course of the realization without surveillance verifying it? Now don't let us play projecting in front of this assembly. I have no reason, I will repeat once again, as much as you wish to distort my words, to defend Dragoslav Šumarec, nor his law, nor sit where I sit, because an independent MP, I did not belong to any government, I defend the profession and I give Serbian citizens information on this set of laws that have been passed and on those places that threaten their civil rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46640	Thank you. Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46641	A small addition, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure is doing nothing by heart. Therefore, all those engineers who were designers, or all those engineers who were in technical control, or all those engineers who signed and were surveillance, are all by name and last name, with all the projects and project solutions, proposed, or sent to the Engineering Chamber, and you said you were a member of the Engineering Chamber, the Court of Honor of the Engineering Chamber to check their licenses. So, everyone, from first to last. Therefore, nothing is done by heart, there are names of members of the Engineering Chamber, so you would find that interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46642	Thank you. National MP Dr Danica Bukvic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46643	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on construction products. The amendment proposes an amended definition of the subject-matter of the law and should read - These laws regulate conditions for placing on the market construction products, standards and performance of construction products, technical regulations and conditions, procedures and procedures for assessing and verifying performance and obtaining performance documents and signs of compliance with Serbian and European standards, obligations of business entities, as well as any other issues of importance for the area of construction products. I find this form of this article simpler, clearer and more precise. And, as my colleagues pointed out, the proposal for this law first passed a general regulation governing the placing on the market of construction products. All regulations and rules on the production and transport of construction materials are now in one place, which will certainly be helpful for both manufacturers and customers. The adoption of this law also fulfils the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules. In this way, a free and open market is established and is guaranteed to the foreign person to carry out economic activity under the conditions laid down by law for domestic persons, as well as the exit of our producers to a foreign market, which is even more important. I especially want to highlight the need, but also the obligation, to apply and respect environmental principles in construction and building materials, and all in order to protect the environment and human health, and all with the desire that asbestos buildings and buildings built from other unhealthy matter never happen to us again. The SPS parliamentary group will support this one in the voting day, as well as other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46644	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on construction products. I want this amendment to improve the definition of the bill and make it clearer. But, in particular, what I would like to point out, Madam Minister, is to commend the government's 2012 efforts to introduce the "Green Economy" principle in our country, which is very important for us Green Serbia, which we have long advocated, because it is one of the most important parts of our programme. Green Serbia has been very pleased to support the Regulation on the use of ash from the thermal power plants in the road, which will allow us to free ourselves of the negative facts of ash on the environment and the health of the population living in the area of the thermal power plant. I also want to point out now, what Green Serbia has been proposing for more than a decade, that one budgetary neutral intervention should be considered, which is that the state subsidises the purchase of hybrid and electric cars, above all for those with a basic means of working and for people with disabilities, as a means of transport. Normally, they would pay the state all other taxes, VAT, customs, etc. To illustrate, I will provide some basic data on the situation in Europe and the world and in our country. In the first half of 2018 alone, about 800,000 hybrid vehicles were sold, which is a growth of amazing 66% on an annual basis. Purely, electric vehicles have a 64% increase in sales in some countries of Europe, as in the Netherlands, sales of clean electric vehicles compared to sales of fossil fuel vehicles occupy 80% of sales. The bottom line of our proposal is the finding that in those countries that give subsidies, sales continue to grow, and those that reduce or shut down face a reduction in the sales of electric vehicles, as they remain too expensive in relation to vehicles with a classic drive. At the global level, the sale of electric and hybrid vehicles is expected to reach two million units this year. What is this state of affairs in Serbia? Up until now, some 143 electric and 223 hybrid vehicles have been registered. It's much more, so, than something compared to the last year, 2017. It should not be reminded that there are no subsidies to this type of vehicle in our country. It is doubtless that if subsidies and other benefits were introduced for the purchase of electric and hybrid vehicles, as well as for the formation of infrastructure, a greater number of public stations for charging electric and hybrid vehicles would be significantly higher. Green Serbia proposes that legal acts be passed, at least with a limited duration of time, be concluded by the end of 2025, for subsidies in the purchase of electric hybrid vehicles, as well as individual and public charging stations. We suggest that these vehicles have green license plates for clear visibility. Benefits at the national level to be obtained through this proposal should not be specifically discussed, which is greater energy security, benefits in terms of population health, noise reduction, greater safety of drivers and passengers. So I would ask that this proposal be considered and considered in some future period, in order to achieve European and world trends in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46646	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46647	Mrs. Mihajlovic said in response to my previous submission under the amendment that the government's definition of the Republic of Serbia is pro-European and that therefore domestic legislation is regulated according to European standards. However, those in senior state posts from the minister, which is the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the National Assembly president, have not repeatedly pointed out that although Serbia is on the European path, our country wants to co-operate with all states. This means, in particular, that the minister is obliged to decide exclusively on the basis of the criteria of expertise and the cost of carrying out a particular job, and that the country of origin of the contractors does not play any role. With that in mind, we in the SRS fear that the minister favors European and US companies, as well as UAE companies, while at the same time almost making deals with Russia, China and the former SS states. Russian construction is known for its quality and stability. Many of our citizens are still building in Russia today, and many of our citizens are going to Russia to work in the area of construction. The minister, on the other hand, instead of taking advantage of Russian workers and Russian projects, points out his anti-Russian commitment on every occasion, so the minister blamed Russia for failing to build the South Stream project, while spending 30m euros, money allocated to the South Stream project. The money was reportedly spent on preparatory operations, expropriation, investigative and pre-project work. The question is whether money was really spent, whether it had to be spent and who would answer for it. This is likely to determine just another government. On the other hand, the K10 support wall collapsed in August, and before 16 May, an expert from the World Bank for Hairs, a certain Marinos Skempas, was hired. This means that a World Bank gentleman has received at least three salaries, since three months have passed between August and May, and besides his three salaries, certain funds for his work have been spent, and there has been destruction. The project was supervised by two consortiums, France's Luis Berger and Greece's Egnatia Odos, and the contractor was the Spanish firm "Asvi". The question arises who will answer, whether a designer, a contractor or a person who has been overseeing or perhaps all three groups. The event showed that European standards and European performers are not always the best solution, and in Serbia it was built quite well even at a time when the EU did not exist. The whole of New Belgrade has been built on wetland and sand and today stands well, and unfortunately, the duration of the projects you've been building lately, based on European standards, is only a few months. That's why, obviously, it's not doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46648	The word has a minister. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46649	The minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia decides, makes decisions and puts any signature on any document based on the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia, never on its own initiative. In that sense, I, too, as minister of no document, was there a memorandum, a protocol, a contract, etc., I did not sign that the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision was behind it, and that means for all 18 ministers, together with the Prime Minister, whether those decisions were from 2012, 2013, 2014, until today, so for every document you mentioned in the previous days that you know there was a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, when you talk about performers, or investors, but, above all, performers, it is not the minister who decides and determines who will be the performer on a particular facility or on a specific infrastructure, first of all, the project. You should know that the value of infrastructure projects in Serbia's territory run by the Serbian government is 16 billion euros, that nine billion euros is the People's Republic of China, because you said it was gone, that almost two billion euros is the Russian Federation, since you also said it was not there, that there is also Azerbaijan, Turkey and that so far we do not have many performers, to be open, from Europe itself. Corridor 10, which you mentioned, I also told your colleague that the Ministry will deliver all the documentation about the Gredel ravine, around each hair, from the very beginning, so from 2009 to today to you, so you will see, and then you will comment, but you will know, among other things, that all the performers on Corridor 10 have been selected on a public call, or tender, and that no performer has been directly selected by the Government or Minister. It also refers to supervisory authorities. The only thing that has succeeded the government of the Republic of Serbia in the past few years in one part of Corridor 10, is the share of the Serbian House-Levosoje, since one of the performers has not done his job properly, we have broken the contract, issued a public call, allocated money from the budget and given the consortium of domestic companies to do the Serbian House-Levosoje. I have to say, too, there's been a lot of problems here, but I believe it ends now. Therefore, the minister implements decisions by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Behind every decision, memo, contract we signed, I stand, too, because I think we've done everything right for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46650	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a colleague Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46651	Speaking of concrete things, let's take a look at what this law is about. By crossing construction inspection from city municipalities to Belgrade's city level, we are now talking about Belgrade, the city's leadership is taking over this construction law and up to 800 square meters. What does that mean, Minister, in translation? That means they will take over the complete building in Belgrade. The question is why are you doing this now, if the SNS is directly controlling 15 of the 17 municipalities in Belgrade, and do you, as a legislator of this law, feel that the fight against wild construction will be better fought if complete centralisation occurs, as you regulate administrations in Belgrade by this law, full decommissioning of the already deposed city municipalities, or is the ultimate objective of this measure to centralise the development of a solution on the destruction and lists, i.e. anti-dation of the same, in order to enable complete control of the legalisation process and of all the accompanying elements that follow it? In particular, I am referring to this and specifically to this proposal now that the City Building Inspectorate will submit lists to the City Secretariat for legalisation and for facilities up to 800 square meters. Is the particular reason that the SNS has failed to hold back its personnel in some Belgrade municipalities in tolerateing wild construction, because you have been in power for many years, taking bribes, or is it intended to continue with this practice, but to centralize and that money goes to one man? There is no logical explanation for taking control of the construction of buildings up to 800 square meters and still decommissioning city municipalities, for the simple reason that the City Building Inspectorate is, under one, unable or not to supervise the buildings currently in charge. For those over 800 square meters, we can safely say that this measure will lead to further urban chaos. I was authorized in front of the SRS parliamentary group when the House Act was here and you mentioned earlier, you were not allowed to respond to Tomine Vikings because we Serbian radicals were right again, but while you are already here as Deputy Prime Minister and when you boast about numbers, I would ask you to announce in percentages, which is that most of Belgrade and not only Belgrade, the whole of Serbia, is not even 10% of those units in general. I think it's mostly New Belgrade, 20%, but what's going on with what you did with protected tenants? To remind you, ministers, protected tenants are not violently displaced persons, but they are people who received permanent lease contracts after World War II and limited the reduced prices of the tenants because it was the city's poverty. You have, by your law, increased their coefficients for calculating the amount of monthly rent, which, by your law, leads to an increase in rent to market prices, which is absolutely not fair and you failed to solve that problem, but you have deepened the problem. I'm talking about people living in apartments that have invested in this country through apartments, preserving apartments for over 70 years, and now we have a large number of people you want to violently drive out of your apartments. In doing so, you don't give them squares 1/1, or give them in the same municipalities, or places where, if you look at the market, the price of squares is much higher than you are now when you're working with this, you give them a higher price, or the price of squares, as much as it costs. In particular, you take people's apartments in the Old Town, where the price of squares is 2,000 and more euros, and you offer them apartments where the price of squares is 1,000 euros with an even smaller square if there are more than 70 squares and the number of household members.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46652	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46653	I thought we were talking about the Construction Products Act, and you're on your way around the inspection, which is the Law on Planning and Construction. The experience we have from the previous period has shown that this centralization, and regarding the municipal, or city inspection, is the only one that provides the right solutions. I accepted the proposal of the City of Belgrade when we were working on this law, on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction because we have been going through these several years together and we are looking at what speed the question of the law of those million, million and a half, two million objects is being solved in the first place. We realized that it would be the best way to just allow the City of Belgrade to in some way centralise municipal inspections, which there were many and many differences in the work of these inspections. Our interest and our goal is indeed to try to legalize as many objects as possible, but, on the other hand, remember that this law is primarily for those who have violated the Law on Planning and Construction, and hence the Law on Law on Law of Law and we have tried to tighten the Law on Law of Law, but also to enable the Law on Planning and Construction to centralize inspections. I don't think we were wrong. After all, very soon we will see the effects of this measure. As far as these protected tenants are concerned, I have to admit you're wrong about that. Local self-government units have been given 10 years of time to resolve the issue of protected residents, just as it is in accordance with the law. We've been keeping an eye on everything. In one thing you're right, it's basically no one has solved it for at least 50 years, and that's why we started to solve it when we put that law before you last year. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, you're just wrong. So, I'm gonna say one more thing now. In addition to what I said there are 40,169 registered housing communities, we have 27,000 managers. So, people who have agreed within the residential communities that they can have their own managers. Everyone else will get professional managers. At the same time, we trained all the cities of almost professional managers to do the job. We think it's important that we finally settle this issue of housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46654	First, the right to the replica of MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the question has been asked what the SNS is doing in the Belgrade Gard on the subject of construction, of course all these things you heard from the minister directly concern the good consequences arising from those laws that we as a party supported and voted for. That's one thing. Secondly, as for the good things we've done, which we do in the City of Belgrade, and on the subject of construction, it also has to do with the many facades we've arranged. We talked about it months ago. It also has to do with solving the problems we're talking about and at this session today. You heard for sure from the SNS MPs that there was a catastrophic problem in Belgrade, we claim, on purpose, that many compensation funds were never paid, and that it was deliberately conceived at the time of the previous regime that burned and burned Belgrade, a regime led personally by Dragan Gilas, of course all those who helped him. You know those stories, they're well-known, we don't have to open them today, but nobody went too far when he said the weight of the problem was measured by hundreds of millions of euros, right on that basis. I have official records here. The Belgrade City Directorate ended up with a total claim for 27.7 billion dinars because, I say again, rules were laid down that this money must never be made by friends and associates of Dragan Gilas and his other partners to pay. What are we doing since the question has been raised what is the SNS doing in the City of Belgrade? We're handling this. So, at the previous session of the Belgrade City Assembly, to inform you, decisions have been made which, among other things, help to resolve this particular problem so that, according to these decisions, money that the city's register would never see, from which the Belgrade citizens would never have anything, yet a total of it, I end up Mr. Chairman, according to judicial rulings 2.8 billion, according to cases where the proceedings are in progress 2.4, to charge a total of 5.2 billion. That's how we do it when we do it seriously and responsibly. We solve these problems, not only point to them and clearly identify the culprit, but also solve them. Of course, these problems make me very happy, the last sentence, and we're talking. Since the city's topics are, we're talking about them in the City Assembly and we're talking to the soul of those who passed the censorship in the city of Belgrade, only with them we can. (Miljan Damjanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46656	You don't have the right to a replica, pal. (Miljan Damjanovic: How can I not? He's been talking to me the whole time... I'm sorry, buddy, I don't know, why are you all so excited? Because the right to a replica is obtained if someone misreads you or offends you. [[Miljan Damjanovic: Because you don't give me a replica...]] (Miljan Damjanovic: He talks to me all the time.) So what? (Miljan Damjanovic: Then how come I have no right? You don't. (Miljan Damjanovic: Arsicu, you continue again.) I'm now setting a break for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46658	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Construction Products. In Article 1 The proposal for a law of the word ‘for placing on the market and making available on the market of construction products’ is replaced by the words ‘under which construction products can be placed on the market and made available on the market’. As an explanation, I have stated that the amendment is a legal-technical editorial of the provision of Article 1. The bill, which contributes to the accuracy of the law. By adopting and adopting the Law on Construction Products, the general public, in particular construction, rightly expects the new law to regulate the market for construction products and raise the level of quality of materials used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings, and that competition will lead to favourable prices for investors. The expected quality is not far from all domestic producers. For example, Serbia's Cement Industry does not expect major changes, as standards have been in line with European standards for several years. This law allows the establishment of a technical requirement for a large number of construction products, which will raise the quality of products on our market. The law imposes control, and that is very good for consumers. It's not going to be quick. Sublegal acts are needed. By adopting this legislative project, domestic producers will standardise their products that will thus make it easier to reach foreign markets. Every construction product in Serbia will have to have a clear declaration and a sign that it is produced in accordance with international and domestic standards, the paper is a proposal for a law on construction products. Thus, thousands and 200 different construction products made in Serbia, such as doors, windows, construction blocks, water pipes, will finally be clearly declared, which has not been the case so far. Based on the above, construction material manufacturers, distributors, investors, designers and quality assessment laboratories, they will all feel the effects of the new Construction Products Act. For the first time, Serbia will receive a regulation that regulates concrete relations and real market earthquakes only by adopting sublegal acts and regulations that will define concrete rules of play, a list of standards, as well as deadlines for their application. The deadline for sublaws is six months since the adoption of the law. The new law will establish conditions for placing on the market construction products and drawing up performance declarations, placing a sign of compliance on construction products, as well as obligations for companies in the production, sale and distribution. The rules will apply to manufacturers, importers and distributors of construction products, laboratories, certification bodies, designers, contractors, persons performing professional supervision during the construction of buildings, i.e. the construction of works, but also national authorities and investors. Any construction product found in the sale will have to follow the performance declaration in writing and electronic form. Also, the material will have to bear a Serbian sign of consistency, must be visible, readable and indelible. Also, one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is the fulfilment of obligations, the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU regulations in the negotiating chapter and the free movement of goods. Because domestic legislation in this area is not in line with the European, Serbian construction industry, as well as the work of certification houses in this area for years are not competitors on the EU market. Domestic economic operators that have adapted their business to EU rules and already operate in that market have additional costs, as their products must comply with domestic legislation which is to the greatest extent obsolete compared to European legislation. How significant this regulation is for each country's industry, it may best illustrate the fact that after harmonising its legislative framework with European standards, Slovenia has increased the number of companies in this area by seven percent in the area of concrete production, aggregates and concrete products. The income from sales of Slovenian companies in EU territory rose by as much as 80% during the period, and the number of enterprises in the area of construction increased by 25%. The SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46659	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46660	The President-in-Office, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, is conducting a legal-technical order that improves the legal text. Construction as an important factor in sustainable development in strategic terms is one of the most important industries, as it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. Without the legal arrangement of this area, the development of construction as complex activities as well as the installation of finished products into buildings is not possible. The fact is that construction products only by installing the facility achieve their performances relating to the essential characteristics of them. This construction product, which has been manufactured and placed on the market for installation into an object or parts thereof, must have performance in relation to its essential characteristics which have an impact on the performance of the facility during the normal maintenance and economically acceptable age of its use. The Construction Products Act prescribes conditions under which only standardised construction products can be placed on the market according to domestic standards, i.e. in accordance with technical regulations, making up a performance declaration and putting in place a conformity sign. This area has not been regulated so far, and is of great importance the adoption of this law, in order to protect and ensure consumer protection, but also the safety of life and human health. The second reason is certainly our obligation to comply with EU rules in this area, and thus to prepare for a common competitive market, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the EU countries and beyond. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of a set of laws in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46661	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Dinic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Dinic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46662	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with a team of associates, respected fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, first of all, I would like to commend this law, because I think it will define something very important for the entire construction industry, and for all of our citizens. This is a law that will require quality control of what comes out of the market and compliance with the quality of what comes out on the European market. It is very important to enable the establishment of technical requirements for a large number of these construction products, and it is good, therefore, to require a sign, a Serbian, a sign of consistency, which must be visible in any case. So far, domestic legislation in this area has been regulated, but this law will also introduce much stronger control, so that the performance control of everything that comes out of the market will be visible and transparent for all those who use it. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46663	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Marjana Marash submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of what the Government, or Minister Mihajlovic, claims this is one law, I claim exactly the opposite. This is a bad law, which is bad for both the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, and especially for construction operations in the Republic of Serbia. If nothing else, this law will produce negative consequences regarding additional charges and additional costs, as you yourself claim, with the reason of the law, Mrs Mihajlovic. This is another piece of evidence that the Serbian Radical Party is right to demand your shift at every session and on every occasion, because this law, as I said, is certainly not in favour of the citizens of Serbia, but rather on the contrary. You seem to have some kind of problem, so here you are acting in the Serbian Parliament a little arrogant and ossion. I don't know if you've been approached by people from the Serbian Chamber of Engineering, who came here today, addressed some of the MPs, and when it comes to the Serbian Chamber of Engineering, you don't have a single and equal attitude, the same approach to the organisation, the association, which is primarily a professional association, and there are such professional associations, for example, such as the Serbia Medical Chamber, the Serbian Bar of Lawyers, and only the right to give a license is taken away from the Serbian Chamber of Engineering. If someone takes away the license, of course, I won't argue, and I don't want to claim that the situation is good, there must be problems there, there's abuse of all kinds, and financial and other species, which you've talked about, but simply one thing that certainly doesn't drink water when it comes to this engineering chamber of Serbia -- and when someone takes a license, a decision by appeal, in a second degree procedure, is done by the government again, and we know, that in this government, there are 17-18 resistors and ministers, there are no engineers. Now, how is it possible that someone who isn't an engineer assesses whether someone should be given a license, since it's strictly a profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46665	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Despotovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46666	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is adopted for the reason that the production of these products, as well as services in these areas, is adapted to the requirements of new regulations that are in line with EU standards and regulations. Since that's the main goal of passing this law, it would be much better if we didn't bring it at all. This law provides for many things that in this area so far did not know our legislation. One of those things is the body for technical conformity assessment. These bodies are yet to be formed from several different institutions, such as standardisation institutes, institutes at some universities and various other institutes. But we must be aware that all of this will cause unnecessary and excessive costs, not only for construction products producers, but also for other business entities such as distributors, importers, representatives and the like. But these aren't the only costs that this law requires. Costs will also be provided by companies involved in projecting and performing works. On the other hand, and persons who produce technical documentation. The persons who operate the work or carry out expert supervision will be obliged to educate themselves on the things passed by the law. The state authorities and institutions that will participate in the application of the law will have to educate their employees and adopt new procedures, in accordance with the provisions of this law, but nowhere is there any way to educate those who need to educate others? All this leads to the establishment of a system that allows for the establishment of monopolys and various abuses in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46667	Thank you. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46668	Madam Minister, this law where we need to establish a system of quality construction products in our country is to synchronise with EU legislation, not much to bring new to our domestic producers, because I have to say that our construction producers in all segments have much better production than some factories coming from EU countries. What's the problem with our companies dealing with this area? What state, and we were supposed to have another law here, protecting the construction material manufacturer. He can't protect them because of unfair competition. We have a free market and everything signed by the first DOS Government and CEFT agreement and all other agreements, except, of course, the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation, which is best and most favourable for this country, which is not used enough, therefore, all other agreements, are so in agriculture, in food, so in the chemical industry, any scissors from various EU countries are coming to our country. What's the problem, and that's what the producers suggest, so that we MPs say from this pay phone? You can't convince me that some tile produced in Kanjija or another factory or façade material in Bekament is worse quality than some European country. On the contrary, the highest standards are respected in this country when it comes to these companies. But they come into an unequal position, first because the state doesn't recognize their huge efforts when it comes to employees in these companies, because they themselves are how to hold them, without these high-quality people going abroad, because here the payment opportunities are small and because the import on the declaration says it's customs goods originating in Spain, Italy. When they send here departments and labs dealing with labs and all other analysis, of course they'll send the best quality tiles, and the customs officer is not authorized to extract and watch the quality of these goods and then there's all kinds of scissors in here and what's worse than anything here, people are saying and I can say, the black market, when it comes to the traffic of that building material. This is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia needs to deal with, and do not worry that it will, in practice and unnecessary this law, because, you know, there is not a single nearly firm in Serbia that is seriously involved in this business. Here, I've listed two companies that are going to produce construction material, and that they're losing their reputation and that they're creating an image and that they're producing a shear. That is exactly what comes from the EU in this way right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46669	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46670	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted this amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on construction products. We have proposed this amendment to replace the words "Serbian technical specifications" in Article 1 with the words "specifics in Serbian standards". In fact, Article 1 refers to the definition of the subject matter of the law and the SRS is of the opinion that the text of the law requires precise definition of the subject matter itself. When we talk about this law, and this time, as well as in many previous discussions, it should be pointed out that the proposer proposes this law among other things and for the fulfilment of obligations and harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU rules. It is an obligation that the government in the Republic of Serbia has in front of the negotiating Chapter 1 of the free movement of goods, and because EU rules in this area are regularly changed and complemented, while the legal system of the Republic of Serbia remains unsettled and completely out of line. That is what the legislator of this law that we are discussing today states that the path of the Republic of Serbia to EU accession implies, in addition to many other reform procedures, and the preparation for the major demands of a competitive common market. This requires great commitment to the quality of products and services. As in all previous discussions, which were conducted on the laws proposed by the authorities for adoption, in order to comply with the obligation to comply with domestic legislation with EU rules, the SRS today points to the fact that Serbia will not become an EU member because the EU does not want Serbia in its membership. The construction, transport and infrastructure ministry should go to the National Assembly to come out of its area with laws, which will affect improving conditions in this area in the Republic of Serbia, because this would go in favour of Serbian citizens, not in favour of the EU. What the minister just said, that all the performers are in the tender and the ban, and that's fine. But when it comes to Corridor 10 and the specific ravine of Predejana, because it is territorially belonging to the Predejana cleavage, the question arises who should control the performance of the works and whether the work of the performer is controlled? I'm saying this because we have some knowledge, we're gravitating in this area, that technical standards are not being respected, that works are being carried out, that concrete construction of steel is being built and that part of this uninstalled material ends in South Morava. The question and the quality of the entire project, which is right through, part of the Grdelička Klisura, is being asked through the Predejan ravine, what quality will these works be? What I can say is that the previous government, or regime that just worked on this project, when it comes to an idea project where the Predejan residents disagreed with the way and part of the route that passes through Predejane, that in some way it questioned both the quality and the location of the project itself, that it could be in a shorter period of time in some way and a time bomb. When I say that, and those pieces that are being carried out, and part of the territory in which it was built, it gives me the right and many of my conversationaries, that this whole project is in an inadequate way and an inappropriate way part of the territory, in part of the territory and building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46671	Thank you. National MP Danila Stojadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46672	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. He wasn't accepted, but I would take this opportunity to point out something else since I talked in the discussion in particular. It's quite clear that after the digital transformation or digitization that we're talking so much about, we're entering a new civilizational level and an era, we could say a new era, an ecological economy. So we force products and environmental technologies. We should use this law to run technologies that will produce natural materials and develop building materials based on natural ecological materials, which primarily saves energy and saves resources, using the resources that we have so far dumped on dumps and that would somehow bring new jobs, and that would also make a step towards green construction, which should reconstruct many of the objects that are abandoned and create new, easily accessible apartments for a large number of citizens who do not have an apartment or roof over their heads. That is why I propose that regulations be made to regulate and define the characteristics of our natural materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46673	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on construction products. Ministers, you must be aware that everything that comes from the EU is not good and is not applicable to our conditions. This is particularly true of a construction operation, that the Serbian construction industry has shown itself and proved itself in various jobs and has successfully done business in many countries of the world. You impose European conditions on us here, and all with the aim of keeping the monopoly in this very important work. The law provides for the introduction of an evaluation body, the harmonisation of products which constitute an additional burden on construction firms, which will ultimately reflect the final price of contracted work. So, let's say, the law stipulates that the number of tests on the strength of concrete curbs is increased, and is immediately suggested that manufacturers will be more cost-effective to obtain their own testing equipment than certified laboratories do. It follows a logical conclusion that some already know in advance what law will be passed and already has the equipment prepared for the production of interrogations. We can only assume how much money will be made that way, someone by selling the equipment provided for by this law. These are your standards behind which big money is hidden, and therefore the SRS insists that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46675	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46676	The Serbian Radical Party continues to insist that it is not a good time to apply this law, as its application is eight days after its publication in "The Official Messenger". Why not? In any case, everyone thinks that they should go towards improving the quality of the product, and even in construction products they need to improve quality. We are faced with the situation that such a miserable, tiresome economy, especially when it comes to building cannot withstand additional costs that relate not only to quality control, but to the possible complementarity of equipment. It will, whether we want it or not, reflect on the price of the product. Since here is the main accent and the main goal of speeding up small producers, let's take examples of those who produce bricks, bricks, these are small producers essentially. They need not small funds to renew their equipment in order to be within the standards of European standards, they need and what significant means to have their own laboratory for testing. And that would automatically reflect the price of the product. Since all investors must comply with public procurement, to discuss competition, in competition, other than quality, play and price. Now the real question is when will our small producers, first of all, meet these conditions, and therefore when will they come into the situation to be competitive, as it accumulates their products. And that's the essence of the whole philosophy of this law that's being passed, and it's always under the pretext of protecting our producers, that we'll be in a position for our producers to be present on the European market. And there is a very significant role of the game, except for the quality and price of the product, so we Serbian radicals are not against improving the quality of the improvement of the economy, but we don't think at this point it's time to do it, to go with this law, to improve the quality, at the expense of price improvements, and then we get into the situation that we've been turning around and catching our tails, we've been turning around and we haven't done anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46677	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here's a colleague of Mihaylovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46678	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, often in the language of the laws we make use of foreign words, perhaps when it can be otherwise, in a pure Serbian language. We have here, it's in Article 1, part of that article, it's about the body for the evaluation and verification of the continuity of the performance of construction products. So that word that comes out here, I mean the performances, it's clear what it means. The word itself means achievement, result, and most often in the plural it means work characteristics or technical data about a given product which would be appropriate to this text here or certain parameters. So it could be said otherwise here, for example, optimal technical characteristics, instead of performances or best technical characteristics, or if we go further, so the word "characteristics" is replaced by another word that is ours in Serbian, so it would be optimal technical properties or even better, the best technical properties of a particular construction product. Of course, I don't want to have some controversy in this direction right now, but I would just like to draw attention to the fact that in other areas, such as legislation, care should be taken into account about the cultivation and improvement of the Serbian language. We don't always have to use other sides, international expressions. Anyway, I think it's a big and positive step in passing this law on construction products. We at the SPS Parliament Club support the adoption of this law, because for the first time, we use this law to standardise construction products, which have certain properties, which meet essential requirements, which are, above all, the preservation of life, animals, people, plants and a healthy environment, then consumer protection and even protection of the property of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, it is very important that we have, not only because of the obligation to bring this into line with EU legislation, but this introduces an important order and order. What our Member of Parliament Daniela Stojadinović said is very important that we also bring into this sphere the qualities relating to the healthy environment through the production of those construction products that are environmentally clean and secure sustainability, the progress of our citizens and our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46679	By amendment, Mihailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46680	When we talk about the technical side, I wanted to determine the next fact. Madam Minister, you see Article 1. It's a long, long complex sentence. Of this complex long, long sentence, those who write could and should have written four, five sentences of plainly extended sentences, nothing to change, and that should be the way to write and the way to do it in the future. Here when you start from the beginning and get to the end, you forget what it says at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46681	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46682	Mrs. Mihajlović, we knew that you couldn't be a long-time forwarder, but that's not our problem, that's the problem of those who hired you and forced you. What did we recognize? In the afternoon, you said expertise in front of politics, and we remember those billboards that flooded Belgrade and other places around Serbia when a lot of money was spent on that billboard, in fact, money was laundered. You still said that, only you couldn't say that, maybe every other minister in the Serbian government could say – who you're with, that's who you are. Let me remind you, I don't want names that you were with until 2003, 2004 and 2008 and that's quite enough. And that's why we had to analyze this law in detail. Maybe the application of this law or the timing in which it's going to be applied isn't good. Should we insist on the quality of construction, as well as all other products, of course we should, and colleagues who say it is good for the protection of the environment, of course it is. You're here for nothing trying to explain to us or convince us that this will bring good to micro-building companies. Only they can't do well, because it's a large number of small companies that don't have the ability, the capacity to manage or invest the necessary funds in a relatively short time to reach a certain quality of construction products. I was a little worried about us at the SRS when you said that you noticed that in the construction industry, GDP growth, increased demand and sales of apartments, and that could not be challenged. Simply, people need to solve their housing issues, but as soon as you noticed, you immediately remembered one law, lobbyed probably from the EU, in order to address a big and serious problem, not only for small construction firms, or construction producers, but for a little bit more serious. So, as was the case in the area of agricultural and food production, so is here. It'll probably be a lot easier for you to control the smaller number of larger firms, knock on the door, take a racket, than it is, if there's a large number of micro-building companies that are smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46683	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46684	I don't really know who's knocking on the door and who's taking the rackets. If you know someone's doing this, then I think you should report it. When I know that there are any problems or any potential corruption, or I think something's wrong, I report to the authorities, because I believe in this country and its organs. Furthermore, about what you said that maybe it wasn't a good timing and that it shouldn't be passed now, you know, we would have thought so, then we probably wouldn't have done anything in the reforms in any area of social life, including in the area of construction. No matter how much we refut statistics, statistics still provide certain data, therefore, of how much was the share of construction in GDP in 2012, 2013 and how large it is today. It was below 3%, and today it's 4.5%. And also, when we talk about how the construction industry is actually developing, then we can also see serious shifts in production and construction material, but we can also see it in the area of construction itself. When we talk about the value of the projects we're doing in the area of construction, we also have a serious shift. So that's all the data that you can see after all. So the naked eye is visible, and the gods are visible when we only look at statistics. So if we're sorting out a piece by piece of construction and we're talking to those who produce construction products, and if they're the ones who also think that this should be arranged, I don't see why don't we pass such a law and edit the market? Those were the reasons. We worked together with all the relevant factors when we're talking about this area. I really believe it can only bring us good. After all, we're going to see each other, so we're going to measure those results, but I believe we're not wrong anyway, because we're listening to those people who really work in this country and make our economic development better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46685	MP Sreto Peric, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46686	Mrs. Mihajlovic, if you can explain to me now, it can be much shorter than before, in one minute what the great trade chains that have been opened in Serbia in the last year and more, it is the same law that I can accept and that I fully understand. You mentioned that the first electronic license was given to IKEA. Did you know that about 10,000 products were in their sales range, and only three were produced in Serbia and that was a cutting board, a bet, and I don't know what third would? That's what we're afraid of with the construction industry. People are starting to get by. Our people are valuable, but we fear that through this law many will not put the key in their lock.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46687	The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46688	This article 1, that's the big sentence we wanted to rewrite somehow, so we've even submitted 20 amendments to make it more understandable for everyone to know what's in this article. To paraphrasise, it is essential that this article provides that this law regulates the conditions for placing on the market of construction products of a certain, or appropriate quality, etc. What is the problem here in this whole law and tomorrow in its application? The problem is that, said colleagues from the SRS, we have several affirmative manufacturers of construction material of this kind or that kind, we have a lot of those who are trying small companies and there's a problem and there's a problem that the state should do what it does to these foreign investors. It should give incentives, that the state should encourage, 10,000 euros per job, as you give whatever kind of work they come here, be a year, two or three, then leave, and if you give it to our man, he will try to develop his job, expand it, hire new people, for starters, probably, rope members and wider families, later and others. This is what if you really want to improve both quality and timeliness and in general this type of production and products should be done by the Government. It's easy to rewrite the law from the EU and say -- here, they told us, so we tell you, and then it's adopted. The problem of applicability and this and many other laws, we always stress, is always present and it is shown when in two, three months you propose amendments and additions to this law, as at this session today, we have six, seven amendments and additions to the law. That says you don't work hard enough, or seriously. It says you only work to get a cartoon on that European agenda there. Of course, we are not interested and we are, the Serbian radicals, the attitude that Serbia should not go to the EU. You're commenting today that it's a legitimate position. If you hadn't said, we wouldn't have known, but here's our attitude. Don't let everything be your EU, EU, EU. Give some help to our people. Let the production of construction products develop, to activate construction operations, to be, again, what you like to say, leaders in the Balkans. We were leaders on the planet as far as construction operations were concerned. We can do that again, but you've got a little bit of power to help. Greota is indeed, as much money as it is enough for strangers, and our people are nothing or almost nothing. One of these affirmative companies, Natasha mentioned, you helped a year, two days ago and they really expanded their production significantly and that was good, but let it be more. It's our appeal and essence and our amendments. Actually, first of all, the explanation of the amendment. Just two things about something you said in the last few hours. There are people from Bora reporting. They say, as far as issuing building permits, tell the minister that nothing is true. Nothing works in Bor, general chaos. Check it out. I'm just telling you what's been said. You replied to an MP that there was never a talk of moving, cutting the hill, etc., in the Gredel ravine. You don't trust Wolfie, do you? So he said, "We will cut across half the hill, if the other half is necessary." We were just quoting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46689	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46690	Okay, you quoted yourself. The president didn't say he was gonna move the hill. So the hill certainly hasn't been moved, and if they're cut off hills, they are, but let's leave it to those people... If you've cut half and half, you've moved. All right, I've listened to you. So, let's leave it to those people who do it. Now I'd go back to the law, a few things you said, and I think they're important and important. First, for your information, in the area of construction products, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, 24,500 registered business entities are operating in Serbia, and 18,000 of them are operating in a harmonised area. In this harmonized area, of those 18,000, 11,500 are producers and 6,500 importers and distributors. Now, when we talk at all about this harmonisation and adaptation, they'll first harmonize where there are no producers of our own, where we don't have production. So, those products that are primarily imported, we will go to harmonize first so that we can have producers here, then the ones that have already adapted to European standards and appear in other markets outside Serbia, and only in the end will we coordinate exactly those who have a lot of problems and should help them to gradually harmonize. So we made sure that the phasing out was in everything we do, especially in this area, aware that it was the area in which we had to take care of the manufacturers of construction products, that it was, first of all, in favour of our development of construction. I would not comment on the amendment, you simply changed one word, as far as I can see, of the "issued" you substitute with the words "who are to betray". I think it's less important now than what I just answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46691	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46692	Maybe that's less important to you, but good. Infinitive is something, but good, something that is absolutely unacceptable in Serbian. But, more importantly, are you, in this law, not having it, who is that organ, which is the inspection service, who is who is going to say – e, this product, construction, meets all standards and this kind of product we're going to install on that building over there and it's not going to be a stinking building, it's going to be a building of normal quality. Now, that's a question you haven't given an answer to in the law, and it's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46693	National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46694	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on construction products, in order to further define the subject matter of this law. A law like this was necessary to the Republic of Serbia, not only because of compliance with EU rules, but also because the area covered by this law should be the basis for all those involved in the construction market. Especially today, when we have a record number of construction sites in Serbia, 36,000 with issued building permits. We have a record number of investments in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Today, when factories are opened from place to place, when traffic stations are built, when infrastructure is provided, so that every municipality, every city in Serbia, becomes a decent place to live. The responsible government, implementing the SNS programme and making proposals in the interest of Serbian citizens, is restoring dignity and reputation to our citizens. After the destruction of Serbia and all good in it, responsible leadership, to which citizens have given confidence, recognised the need to create basic conditions for life first and to make them a platform for further development. And, so investment in education, in health care, infrastructure, are recognised as a priority. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, is responsible for addressing the problem, both at national and local level. Citizens of the municipality from which I come, citizens of Ub municipality, are witnesses of a turnaround recorded over the past six years. Today, by pawning responsible management in Ub municipality we have a record number of built municipal roads first and second row, a record number of built, restored untegorized roads, we look forward to realising, that is, the completion of the construction of the section of the highway E 763 Obrenovac –Ub and access to the highway and everything that brings the highway, a larger number of investments. In the municipality in which it is working, the building, which is becoming an increasingly desirable destination for the lives of citizens, is under way the realization of an important project for Ubljane. It's building a new kindergarten. The facility will be completed in September of next year, and we are especially looking forward to having every child a place in kindergarten. The facility is built in an area of 3,000 square meters and the value of the investment is 218 million dinars, while the equipment will require 20 million dinars. Everything in line with the project and the building permit issued shall be realised. So, in Ub municipality, the draft law on the agenda is also intensively built, it certainly fits into the atmosphere in which the Ub municipality is currently located and in which it will be. And certainly, the bill and other draft laws are moving forward with the situation in which Serbia is located, Serbia that is being built, in which citizens connect, Serbia whose cities and municipalities are developing, building, solving citizens' problems by priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46695	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Janjušević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46696	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues, this law is certainly a function of quality, better quality of construction materials and a higher standard. The funds that are invested in a better standard and quality cannot be called costs, it is a basis for greater competitiveness and why our businesses would not be even more competitive abroad and why they would no longer look that way and why they would no longer believe in themselves and return our companies, our companies to the path of old fame, which is certainly the way we are going. I will refer to investment in tourism. An example of the municipality of Nova Varoš, which is experiencing tourist expansion in 2000, is recorded in the municipality of Nova Varoš, more precisely in 2012 in the municipality of Nova Varoš there are 2,000 nights of tourists. At the end of this year there will be over 100,000 overnight stays in the municipality of Nova Varosh. So new hotels are being built, accommodation facilities and Zlatar, the real pearl of Western Serbia, is experiencing a tourist expansion. What I want to say and to express my gratitude to the citizens of Nova Varosha, it is the beginning of the reconstruction of the route from Vranoševac, therefore, from the municipality of Nova Varoš, to that tourist zone on Zlatar. This is the key direction they lacked to have full tourism content and to move to another higher level of tourist offer. Also, as you have responded effectively in the case of an access to the Priboj industrial space, where you have effectively solved 2.6 km of road, and thus opened the door for many investors, where 400 people are working today, and I would like to ask you to consider the possibility to realise a single project, which is the road route Kokin Brod – Jarmovac. So that's the way we out of Pryte, that's our way out, let's say, into the world. The development of the economy currently in Priboj and the start of serious tourism, particularly related to the Pribojska Banje, in a way requires that the road route in the length of 24km be at a higher level. So he's being held up, but you can really see the need for him to be on one higher level. On this occasion, I ask you to consider that possibly together as a municipality we may be performing to do a project, but thanks for all the effective help we have so far, and we are very looking forward to Corridor 11. So all these infrastructure projects that we're doing are bringing the better future closer to us than we're looking for. So we are not waiting for something to fall from the sky, we are attacking and making the most of it, and we are leading Serbia into a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46697	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46698	I have to admit, there are really impressive results regarding the number of nights. As for this route, there is a possibility that together the ministry and the local self-government, together we can do project technical documentation, and even later we can see in which relationship we would then go into, I guess, the reconstruction of the changing or whatever the project does. So now the 2019 budgets are being prepared slowly. It's time to deal with it now, so here's what I wrote down, and I'll let you know very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46699	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Grubor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46700	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to congratulate our golden volleyball on the success of the world championship in Japan. Indeed our athletes are the best ambassadors in the whole world. Secondly, I would like to condemn the invitation of our fellow MP to hang on the terraces and the Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic and our president, Mr Alexander Vukic. It's a great shame for all of us and our people. This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving the business climate. The adoption of this law, sublegislative acts and regulations, which will define concrete rules, a list of standards, as well as deadlines for their application, will improve the business climate in the Republic of Serbia and thus affect the development of the Republic of Serbia. Construction material manufacturers, distributors, investors, designers, but also quality assessment laboratories will feel the effects of the new Construction Products Act. The goal is for the materials to be used in Serbia in the future to comply with European standards. Domestic producers will make it easier to reach foreign markets by standardising their products. What was the business climate in Loznica and Podrinj in the previous regime is the fact that everything that worked was destroyed, closed, all the major factories lost their workers. It's the only Zajca, i.e. "Parmacom", worked five times with increased capacity, melting poisons from all over the world to the health of all locals in the region. You personally made sure in the field what it looked like. The fact that 80% of the children sampled in preschool and school age had lead in their blood over the upper limit, which is 10 microgram per decilitre of blood, speaks about the way they operate “Parmacoma”, all for their own material benefits. The estimate of the owner's and his associates' profits in Zajaca alone is around 20m euros. Our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic and our government are returning life to Loznica, Podrinje and Western Serbia. Bringing large world companies, American Adient and Chinese Mint, life in Loznica and the environment will certainly be better. Adient has already started working with about 150 workers to build a new factory in the industrial zone, when it will employ about a thousand and a half workers. The local self-government of the town of Loznica, headed by Mayor Vido Petrovic, has made a lot of efforts in the last 10 years, starting in 2008, in the formation of the industrial zone of Šepak and the reconstruction of Republika Srpska Street. A total of 2,929,851 euros were invested in the construction of municipal infrastructure, traffic, hydrotechnical infrastructure, electrical installations, asphalting of streets in the zone, parking, sidewalks and public lighting, out of which a total of 2,929,851 euros was invested for the reconstruction of Republika Srpska street 1.512,832 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46701	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46702	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, from the moment you personally said that some people, or people who have led the Engineering Chamber in the last few years, made a law of their own making and that they were taking money, I asked to check, based on what you've been saying, whether it's true or not. So, what I have to say in this case is that I have proof that you deceived the public of Serbia for the simple reason that here in front of me is an official review of the net fees paid to the members of the Authority and the Commission of the Engineering Chamber, which was also confirmed by Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic. It says here that Dragoslav Šumarac, who otherwise led the Chamber, who apparently was the object of revenge for individuals who failed in the Engineering Chamber in the elections to take him away, in a year, in a year's time, received 60,000 dinars. That's a little less than 500 euros. However, when we look at those members of the Engineering Chamber through which the ministry tried to influence the last elections to shift, or with those officials of the Engineering Chamber who are here in front of the ministry, in line with the SNS, there is a slightly different situation. We have, Obradovic Radojka, who made 5,500 euros on the same basis. Then, we have people who, here are 10,000 euros, excuse me, 15,000 euros, Damljanović Milisav who was one of those who tried to replace the current management of the Serbian Engineering Chamber in front of SNS without talking about others: Obrenović Gligor, Otovic Slobodan, from 10,000 to 5,500 euros. So these are the people who were tasked with taking over Serbia's Engineering Chamber in front of the ministry, and you have accused Belgrade University professor Dragoslav Schumarc of doing this to receive certain amounts of money. So, this financial report was approved by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. She sent an inspection there several times, and they found that there was absolutely nothing controversial about this report. So, for the sake of truth, the Engineering Chamber is changing because neither Dragoslav Šumarac nor Serbia's engineers, 28,000 of them, have an independent professional association, but rather the need for SNS to control every pore of this society. So it was important to move the Court of Honor and issue licences to the Ministry that will send a simple message to engineers tomorrow -- you are not welcome to stay in this country, go somewhere else in Western Europe, there are probably a little better conditions for us, and we will share licences to those who are similar and to those we think are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46703	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46704	Come on, please, first let's start talking about what the Engineering Chamber did and why the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to return to its jurisdiction the Engineering Chamber of Serbia. Don't deceive the public with that story and the caring attitude towards engineers, because if you were really caring and if the management of the Engineering Chamber had been very careful then you would have invested in our engineers, then our engineers would have been further educated and able to do very complicated and difficult projects that we are doing today. Unfortunately, the Engineering Chamber has become a private engineering chamber the moment you pulled out the Engineering Chamber in 2003, practically, and passed over jurisdiction, and that is, what we should do, maybe it doesn't suit someone, DS and it is Dragoslav Šumarac who did it, so, using the practical Law on Planning and Construction, by paying membership fees that engineers have to pay to even keep their license. If you don't pay your membership fee, then there's no license, then you're denied your license, so the engineers had to pay their membership fee of 7,500 dinars in order to keep the license, instead of actually educating our engineers. You see, by restoring jurisdiction, therefore, by not shutting down the Chamber, by not removing, etc., by restoring the competence of the Ministry and the Government, there will be, under one, a membership fee, under two, additional training by engineers and, of course, as regards the various prices of Serbia's Engineering Chamber, it will no longer be that way, because you have used these pricers for various jobs. We had one handful of engineers who participated in a variety of project solutions, signed various project solutions, and now, in fact, the biggest pain, not only will you lose your foothold, and use that engineering chamber politically, but it is a pain to open all the papers, which will be very good to see who signed everything and everything in the previous years, since 2003. There is much to change in the Engineering Chamber so that young engineers, but also those with knowledge and experience, can normally do what engineers in this country should do, not under the story of politics and everything you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46705	The word is Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46706	Article 106, Mr. Marinkovic. First of all, let me say good morning to Mr. Bozovic. I hope you got some sleep, Mr. Bozovic. It's 4:00. Isn't that right, Mrs. Verice? Did I make a mistake? I see a little weaker. Sixteen hours and 10 minutes. We've been working since 10:00 this morning. Balsa Bozovic entered the National Assembly building about 1600 hours, and otherwise they did so when they had responsibility for leading the government of the Republic of Serbia, so they came to work in the ministries, so they came to work in the government, and then they were surprised that they lost power, because they were doing nothing, and what they were doing, they were doing to harm Serbian citizens. What I'm trying to say to you, Mr. Marinkovic, is that he's a broken member of 106. I understand that Mr. Bozovic was on instructions from the head of the city board of DS, Dragoslav Šumarac, who told him what he should say in his defence here in the National Assembly, but this is not the topic of the agenda and I draw your attention to the violation of Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I guess Mr. Bozovic from 10.00 this morning, although I doubt he's waking up at that time, early from noon, he's probably, so now somewhere by 4:00 p.m. he's been tutoring the head of the city board of DS, Dragoslav Šumarac, but that shouldn't burden us who work here in the National Assembly, according to the agenda. Currently on the agenda is not Serbia's Engineering Chamber, although I know they are in pain of losing power in Serbia's Engineering Chamber, it's the only thing they have left in Serbia, which was somehow their own, which is what they thought was theirs and where they could collect income. Now it slips under their feet, no more rackets, no more robbery of engineers, no more coercion of Serbia's Engineering Chamber...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46707	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46708	Mr. Marinkovic, make sure that the injured member is 106 because Mr. Balsha is just up and probably hasn't woken up yet. I'm not asking you to vote on hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46709	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46710	If you don't give me the right to a replica, I'll just answer Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. So, we found that what the gentleman wrote and spoke to Mr. Arsic was not true and it is nice and very important that we tell the citizens of Serbia. Thank you for that. Let's move on. The Serbian Chamber of Engineering was supported by the European Council of Engineering Chambers, Engineering Initiative for Regional Co-operation, Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers, the Chamber of Engineers of Investment Design of Bulgaria, the Chamber of Authorised Engineers of the Republic of Macedonia, the Chamber of Engineering of Serbia, the Association of Engineers of Belgrade, the Association of Urbanists of Serbia, the Stomatological Chamber of Serbia, the Pharmaceut Chamber of Serbia, the Chamber of Biochemists of Serbia, the Chamber of Medical Sisters and Medical Technists of Serbia, the Association of Fine Arts and Designers of Serbia as well as a huge number of individuals. And, now, since I was with engineers from Serbia's Engineering Chamber from eight o'clock this morning, what they asked me to do by coming to the Assembly and in front of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is to hand over a letter from the European Engineering Chamber, behind which half a million European engineers, who say, Mrs Mihajlovic, that your bill is scandalous, that there is nowhere in the region, that there is no example of any practice and what is worst that Serbia will not be able to do in the EU if professional associations are not independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46711	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46712	Mr. Martinovic mentioned me earlier, but I know you don't want me to replicate, so I have to use Article 32 like this. Mr. Martinovic said that Balsa Bozovic appeared here at four o'clock, that he probably got up an hour or two ago. That's obviously true, because where he'd be if he wasn't in his workplace, if he hadn't slept. But there's a problem, if someone changes day and night like that, then there must be a problem with functioning. Others are people who have to work at night for work, then rest during the day, etc. But someone who's supposed to work during the day, and who knows where he spends the night, then sleeps this long and comes, shows up like he's fallen from Mars, and then I really think we're absolutely justifiably wondering if he has the ability to continue to monitor and participate in the work of this Parliament, since he doesn't seem mentally ready for today's debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46713	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) All right, everybody's gonna turn up. Orderly, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46714	Thank you. Chairman, you've again allowed a breach of article 107. In fact, this is where the dignity of this Assembly was really injured, when someone who obtained a degree in Law School today, until this law came into force, to acquire some engineering degree, defends those honest engineers, is indeed an insult to this House. I really understand if he's defending Mr. Schumartz and everything he's been doing, because they're from the same fele and there's no dilemma, no problem at all, but we have to point out, that as he thought they could get to a degree in law school, not going to exams, with such a step he's trying to protect those designers who designed the reconstruction of the Obrenovac-Ub road, and that they never went to the scene to see what that field looks like. For me, it's absolutely unacceptable, and that's reliable information. And on that information, no one from the Ministry then, no one from the Engineering Chamber who wondered about it, no one, not even the supervisory authority that followed that road section, reacted. What do we expect now? That a couple of bastards who abuse their positions, humiliate and insult all those engineers who do their job with honor. You should not have allowed this, and this is how Mr. Balsa Bozovic was exposed to the dignity of the Assembly, as I have already said, and you had to interrupt him in his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46715	Thanks, buddy. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46716	I thank the chairman. So, given that certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure have already been advertised, I will appeal to Article 27 concerning Article 106, which is otherwise pointed out by fellow Martinovic, when he drew attention to the fact that we have really strayed from the agenda and that we are really now discussing something that is certainly not the point of the agenda, because I do not see what the Engineering Chamber has to do with the quality of construction products? However, what is still symptomatic here is that this Assembly is also used for populist purposes, contrary to Article 107, which protects the dignity of the Assembly. First of all, a large number of engineers who are members of the Engineering Chamber in no way accepts the attitudes we have heard today. It does not accept the views that the Engineering Chamber in any way, taken by the state, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The engineering chamber was at one point detached and precisely from the government that formed the structure, i.e. the party that was then a superior party, so DS. That's when the Engineering Chamber received the outlines of a private chamber where those things were happening that didn't happen in any other chamber. Let's just say, the bar is not like that, the bar has its principles. He's got public authority. What are the powers of the Engineering Chamber? And to conclude, I just want to draw attention to the fact that this particular Chamber of Engineers that is protecting itself has done a lot of things that are dishonest, especially for those against whom it should not have done so, which is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which means that no engineering license has been taken away from the work of engineers. I mentioned the example of Zlatibor in 2010, when over 10,000 squares of an unmoved object was destroyed. Destroyed, fortunately without consequences, no loss of life. No one was responsible for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46717	Thanks, buddy. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46718	Mr. Marinkovic, since you took over the bat from Mr. Arsic, you needed to focus a little bit. So you and certain MPs from this Western failed alliance weren't at the session all day, and then you couldn't keep track of the entire session. We have been very argumentative and professional, as MPs of the SRS, discussed our amendments, discussed the criticism of this law, answered Zorana Mihajlović, and this is now irrelevant, but now that you have come, and since these creations have come like this in the image of Balša Bozovica, I ask you to protect the dignity of the National Assembly and to prevent any further attempt to destroy the dignity of its uninvolved statements and manner of conduct as he tries to destroy this dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46719	Thank you. I'm just asking you, as I've been doing since the beginning of this session, to treat and treat our colleagues in a dignified way. There's no need for such strong words. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) (The Faith of Radeta: The Rules of Procedure. Another time? Here you go, but let me hear what member it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46720	Article 27(1) It wasn't. Mr Marinkovic, you've intervened a little before when Natasa Jovanovic spoke and said you've been acting since the beginning of this session, that we should take care, etc. At the beginning of this session, on the first day, Balša Bozovic, son of Zeka Bozovic, who was the director of "Serbian Nikla", who threatened the environment with these excavations, yes, yes, Balša Bozovic was then the president of the youth of the Democratic Party, the high-ranking father, who was a political official, rather than a official in this second sense, so he, Balša Bozovic, said, speaking to the MP Seselj, that – indeed, he was speaking to the chairman – to prevent and preserve the dignity of the National Assembly in the future. Balsa Bozovic has not received a warning. From that moment on, this is legitimate and from this moment on, or from the moment this is said, you can no longer defend anyone to say it. For now, Balša Bozovic is a creation. If there'll be more, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46721	Thank you. I'm in favor of the opposite right now. I remember that, I remember that beginning of the session, when my colleague Bozovic said that about the head of your party's parliamentary group and, of course, I use the opportunity to say to him that there is no need for such words, as I said to Natasa Jovanovic. I ask all the MPs, there's no need to mention each other, I think it's a matter of gentlemen and not crossing that line of reference to parents, children, relatives. We're here in the political arena and I don't think there's any need for that. In my own ways and ethical principles, it's not good, nor is it allowed. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic, so you, colleagues Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46722	Mr. Marinkovic, a member of 107 has been injured and I'm paying attention to that. Namely, you say you shouldn't mention family members. I will now read to you how in the most vulgar way possible family members are mentioned, i.e. Alexander Wolfie's parents. Those who earn, they're the ones who are behind what I'm about to read. Yesterday, Aleksandar Vukic visited works in the Kingdom, in the Adriatics near Kraljev, to open a new factory, which should employ two and a half thousand people, the value of the investment was 35m euros and thanked the Turkish investor for working not only young, or relatively young women, but also women of 40 and 50 years of age. Now, from that sentence, the Democratic Party and all those who support that so-called. Serbia's civil opposition, led by Dragan Gilas, made it as if Aleksandar Vukic publicly called for the rape of women in Serbia. Here's what one of them says. He says -- one of the evidence that Angelina and Angelko -- they're Alexander Vukic's parents -- didn't do the job well for their parents. And the MPs of the Democratic Party who so present themselves on their Twitter warrant are, look out, it's to this extent monstrous that I simply have no words. So, the President of the Republic thank the Turkish investor for hiring two and a half thousand people from the Kings, including women between 40 and 50, and here's what those who earn say: "End the sentence, President. Finish your sentence and let's hear you laugh at them. Have courage, so let's hear what you think the employer expects of his workers, what you think of women who sit behind machines for hours, other than asking the Turks to take care of them, as if they were in their mercy."... etc., etc. And the lady...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46723	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46724	Let me finish, please. It's very important. It is very important that you see what is meant by the civil opposition in Serbia. And Mrs. Kristina Kovac says of Alexander Vukic: “A male chauvinist. ” He goes on to say: “Come on, Bots, I'm very interested in what angle you're going to defend from the indefensible fact that the President of the State, Alexander Vukic, alluds that when you hire women, it means that you hope that you will give them y... “ [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46725	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic: This is the Democratic Party's policy. Why are you shutting me down until I'm done? Three minutes you've been talking. Call again, I'll give you my word. It's not a dispute. (Alexandar Martinovic: Three minutes, and the employment of 250,000 people they fired, that doesn't matter? Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. I'm taking a break, in accordance with Article 112 of five minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The First Amendment was submitted by the National Ambassador of the Master Igor Becic? (Maya Vidinović: Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? You have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. I have continued the session. (Balsa Bozovic: You said you'd give her a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) There were different circumstances. Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46727	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law that we are talking about, of course, is directly in the development function and that is what is undermining and amending Article 1. When you listen to the arguments received during this session and you read them in the material, you see that it is directly made possible by a legal solution, such as this, to achieve greater competitiveness on the market and this achievement of greater competitiveness has to do with the good things that are happening in Serbia these days. For example, right on the world ranking list, which monitors competitiveness, which came out the other day, and is already familiar with the public in Serbia, Serbia has jumped further for the new five places. So this ranking list is being edited by the World Economic Forum and the World Economic Forum has ruled that Serbia is progressing on this issue. This is all good news, therefore, for all those who work in Serbia, for all who will come to Serbia to work, and for investors, like the Turkish investor we talked about today, who will provide new 2,500 jobs and for every other factory in this country that we have managed to bring in the previous years and thus provide directly bread for thousands and thousands, but here we are talking about tens and hundreds of thousands, so we are counting them now, families in this country. For everything that seems to bother people who sleep until four o'clock in the afternoon, people have no idea what this assembly is about, it seems to me that they first went into the lobby today, called a press conference, and there you know what they were doing, invented. They invented that SNS MPs had submitted some and some amendments. So, people come out, so they're building what someone from the SNS suggested, so it's not voted yet, but it might vote. If he might vote, then maybe it will affect God's question. So these people, who apparently sleep as they walk, sleep while they sit in these benches, sleep and talk here. Clearly, they have no better business, nor any more significant contribution to this debate. At the end of the day, we understand each other. To the balks in debt and to Dragan Gilas, who holds them in his hand, because he first personally owed them, then he took that debt into his pocket and therefore today he is in a position to give them orders, so he sends them here to speak the greatest possible nonsense in this white world against SNS and Alexander Vukic. You've seen some nasty things about his parents and other members of his family, but he seems to have an evil God in his debt to each other. The woodsman, mentioned today, is otherwise headed by the City Committee, something that once represented a party, and today does not represent, because today represents absolutely nothing. He's head of this committee, and he's in a position to issue instructions, orders along with Gilas, and you know why? Because the previous president of the City Committee, something that once represented a party, and today absolutely nothing, was so capable, was so skillful, that during his presidency he managed to bring them down with something more than 20% of the support in Belgrade, you saw, probably in March, what happened, to 2.2%, thin 2.2%. Because they are so successful, they are not just below the censorship line in Belgrade, where they have recorded this knowledge and this wisdom, they have had the opportunity to show, they are so in charge, that today Dragan Gilas comes out and tells them – go out and schedule a press conference, be as emboldened as you can. It's something that they're absolutely not in a position to refuse. As far as Serbia is concerned, it is progressing on global competition lists, it has reached European countries, EU countries like Croatia, and as could be seen, progressing faster and this is very important, when we talk about trends, than all countries in the region, which is a clear indication that we will continue to record these good results in the future, among other things, through these laws, so that in these results, when it comes to how the world sees us, I congratulate the Government, and I congratulate you on all the good proposals of the law. Those across the street, if they continue to work well with this kind of energy to contribute to their own destruction, I believe, next time they won't have a chance to talk to us in either this or any other congregation in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46728	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) He didn't mention you, nor did he mention you to the party. (Balsa Bozovic: He mentioned the City Committee and the Schumarca. He didn't mention the game. Of course, he spoke skillfully and did not mention you, nor did he mention your party. You want to pick up the amendment, Mr. Bozovic? Maja Vidinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46729	Vice-President of the 27th and 103rd. You know, your job is that at a time when the President of the Assembly does not chair the Assembly, you chair the Assembly and you tend to respect the Rules of Procedure. It is your obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure that, when Deputy Chief of Parliament, authorised, my colleague Balša Bozovic, has the right to reply, you do not bid and ask him if you want to follow the amendment, we are not at the market, nor are we playing in this serious institution. It is your obligation not to attack the senseless accusations of Aleksandar Martinovic, who were very, as well as Thursday, when we witnessed this wonderful synchronization of the SRS and SNS, did not attack those of Balša Bozovic, representatives of the opposition, deputy head of the DS parliamentary group, attacking a man who today courageously stands up to defend the profession, who stands up for 28,000 engineers, who have stood up and said they do not want this government to humiliate them, to drive them out of the country. So, when this MP, and this whole game, throughout the day and the previous week, by accusing you of the most senseless ways of Balša Bozovic, it's not worth the answer, not him, but none of us, it's being rejected by us. On the other hand, by attacking Balša Bozovic, you do not attack him and the opposition, attacks at the moment of 28,000 engineers who have stood up to defend their professions and they do not agree that they are humiliated by the Ministry and the SNS who will not allow that there is an area of this society that will not put it under their own control, by allowing you and whom you will give the word, to silence the opposition, not even us, or my colleague Balša Bozovic, to silence the citizens in whose name we are obliged to speak. At this point, you're silenced by engineers who have stepped in defense of their own profession and their own dignity. I want an explanation of what I said, and then I'll tell you whether to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46730	Comrade Vidinovic, everyone could see in this room, of course, those who follow, a direct transmission that I didn't speak a word of it. You had the opportunity, used two minutes, pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and pointed to what you consider to be neither in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, as regards what that member implies, conduct and maintain order at the sitting. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you think you represent 20, 30, 50 or 100,000 people, that's, of course, your thing and you had the chance to say it, and there's nothing I can do about it. You have the right to say who you represent, like everyone in this room. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) Does anyone else have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Vladimir Orlic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46731	Article 103(8), and as regards Article 107. Mr. Chairman, of course I'm not answering because I want to oppose that attitude that Balsa Bozovic is suffering something terrible because she shows courage. It is clear to you that what he does, first of all, to himself, by having to comply with ingenious requirements, by holding conferences for the media he makes up, he does himself first and foremost to those people he sits with. I don't think it's called courage, but it's called a little different. But that's not why I'm answering at all. Article 103 paragraph 8 says – you have the right to react when clearly it comes to the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the obvious poor management of time. Why does it matter when it comes to dignity? They say a man protects professions. You know, when someone shows up here, obviously sadly awakened, obviously by assignment and protects directly the interests of someone like the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas, you know which people and what people he protects. It protects people who don't hesitate to devastate a trusted system. It protects people who do not hesitate to threaten the future of the citizens of this country. It protects people who don't want to get dirty rich, get well off and call themselves a profession, and get even with the honorable professions in this society? I don't think that's acceptable, and there should be a sanction here. What's that? The gentlest of all is to take away two minutes to discuss it. This will protect not only the dignity of this National Assembly, but also prevent this unpleasant situation from escalating. You know, when someone here says, and it's there among their ranks -- we're not at the market, that's a threat. I don't know if you recognized it as a threat, but I'll explain. That is a threat, because when they join together and find themselves in the markets, you know what they do, they beat people. There's an ex-president who's ex-president because he was just as successful as that former president of the City Committee. He beat people up in the market. And if they say, don't let us turn this into a drinking atmosphere, we know what they're thinking, so let's warn the unloved scenes and don't God, any violence, that it takes them two minutes, because they can't use it in a smart way, so it'll be easier for them and for you and the people who are watching this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46732	Of course, we will not allow this situation and the session of the National Assembly to be like that and to be an atmosphere like at the market, but rather like this high and respected home. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word is "The Faith of Radet, "the violation of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46733	I don't know why they need these from, I don't know if it's DS, if it's an alliance for everything, I don't know what they're called anymore, it doesn't matter, but why do they always need to discuss with SNS MPs, why do they mention the SRS? We had nothing to do with it. Balshin Kum, Boris Tadic and his co-worker took part in the creation of the SNS and we have nothing to do with it, but, of course, when Balsa and the team arrive at four in the afternoon, there is much to be expected. There comes a man and this lady, too, rebellious, who doesn't know what they're talking about, and then there's a lot to say. So, we want to participate in this debate and really see what personal motive it is, which is a serious motive that made them come here today, after a night's sleep, to defend what is called the Dragoslav Šumarca, who destroyed the construction operation, which contributed most to the construction of illegal objects, which did everything in his own interest, as they do. That's why our question is, what's their bill, that they're so committed to it? Who knows if he's more their member, since they don't know you, they're here today, they're there tomorrow, is that minister still some of them, according to Marian, the government in the shade, right, Marianne? (Marian Risticevic: Government in the shade. Yes. So it's certainly no ideological motives, but it's the motives of a material nature, but we'd like to know which, so let us know openly. You know, Balsa is the son of Zeka Bozovic, even if they now scream as much as they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46734	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46735	Either you let me go, or I'll continue on the second call. I don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46736	Proceed in the second call. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Miss Radeta: No.) ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46737	Mr Marinkovic, members of 27 and 108 have been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You must not, as chairman, allow the political terror of those who came to the National Assembly at 4:00 p.m. to represent the personal and private interests of a man here. It is Dragoslav Šumarac, who is, to remind the citizens of Serbia, and if I am not mistaken, the president of the City Committee of the Democratic Party. So, what they're saying is defending the profession, defending engineers, no, they're defending their private interests in Serbia's Engineering Chamber, and that's what Serbian citizens should know. They appeared in the congregation at 4:00 p.m., and they said they were serious MPs. Well, what if the factory worker showed up at one in the afternoon, and the working day starts at eight? What would happen? What message do they send to Serbian citizens? I assume that during that time, while they were not in the National Assembly, they were in the writing of the most dangerous tweets against Alexander Vukic, who visited yesterday the opening of the factory, or the opening of the factory in Kralje, where 2,500 people, who were fired, will be employed. The value of the investment is 35m euros. Mr. Vukic thanked the chairman of the Turkish company's Management Board for hiring women between the ages of 40 and 50, and we all know how difficult it is to hire women in that lifetime. So, what do you get in return? You get an insult, hate, slander, one pathology that a man simply can't believe. He says on a statement by Alexander Vukic, who thanks Turkey's investor for hiring, among other things, from 40 to 50 years old: "violence, misogyny, mistreatment, shame". That's what the Democratic Party means, and then it says, "Well, you are, Toprak," that's the chairman of this Turkish company's board of directors, "all the women took to work, so you're happy, you think you'll j," they wrote, "when you pick for the president, you pick the radicals of a fresh mammal from the fan bar." It is written by those who represent themselves as democratic European Serbia. A sleeping, shriveled Sasa Jankovic also called.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46738	Finish your colleague, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46739	I'm done. Who says this: "Citizen Block 381", I don't know what that means to him, "is warning that the invitation of Alexander Vukic to the Turks in Serbia to take care of our women, the last in a series of statements which he from the highest place in the Republic of Serbia underestimates and humiliates the nation from which he was taking place, and this time especially women". I say to them: shame be upon them. They humiliated all Serbian citizens because they were in a period of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46740	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46741	Let me finish. Here, look, this one's on his cell phone. He doesn't know what he's gonna do better. They humiliated all Serbian citizens because they left 400,000 people, including women, and young women and women from 40 to 50 years of age, out of work between 2008 and 2012. The Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vukic give these women and those people in the King hope that they can return life to the Kingdom and every other place in Serbia. And you just shoot!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46742	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexander Martinovic: No. ( b) The Belief of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46743	I have to finish what I just started, and it was a little before 107. It's attitude one now. So, I was talking about the personal interest, convinced that Balša Bozovic and this group have a personal interest, which is why they are trying to turn this whole session into a battle for Dragoslav Šmarca. How much an engineer he is, how much an expert he is, we know well, he remembers Martinović and Arsic, we were then in the same parliamentary group, who had all the information about him and then informed the public about it, but then it wasn't current, in the meantime when Zeka Bozovic, the father of Balša Bozovic stopped being a national MP, then they chose him as Director of SC "Tashmajdan", so when they elected him as director of "Serbian Nickle", the journalists asked him how you would now take over that function, what you know about it, he says – well, I am no longer an MP, people chose me, what not to do. So he answered, the rest is recorded. So it doesn't matter what she knows, it doesn't matter what she suggested back then to SANU, or back in 2005, that she wasn't going to study nickels. They wrote that if we went into this business, we'd be turned into a lifeless desert for all time. That, of course, did not interest Zeku Bozovic, because there was good money. Do you know why? Because "Serbia Nickel" was informally the company of Milo Djukanovic. It is their connection, and in this way they tried to poison Serbia, so this Alexic, who is now also in the coalition, was then the president of Tristenik municipality, unanimously decided at the session that he would not allow Zeki Bozovic to join the team, although they were then in the same political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46744	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Miss Radeta: No.) Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46745	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, Mr. Chairman, because one discussion continues here, so I would like to ask the Minister present whether Mr. Shumarac has finally returned the official car of the Engineering Chamber? For years, Mr. Schumarac was driving an official car, had it 24 hours a day, without a dinar fee. The chamber poured out every liter of gas or fuel it uses, and probably while he lectured in various universities and colleges, he charged them with travel expenses as if he were traveling with his own vehicle and used it officially. In particular, he did so while he was a member of the Management Board of the Post Office of Serbia. Maybe he had a car there, too? Maybe he had two, one for him, one for some family member. One more thing, there's a big insult to what they said, to let the waist object. Twenty thousand engineers, times seven and a half thousand dinars a year is 208 million dinars. It's more than some local self-government. How many kindergartens, preschools, can be built to renovate hospitals? Let's say, in the village of Topnica, the renovation of the infirmary of 7.5 million dinars. So, Mr. Schumarac and his team have eaten 20 of them a year on their official travels and fees. That's true. Twenty-seven thousand engineers celebrate what no longer has to pay the racket and fine to Dragoslav Šmarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46746	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Veloljub Arsic: No. No, no, no, In accordance with Article 112, I'm re-determining a three-minute break. I want to give the Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic a chance to say something and get out of this completely inefficient debate, of course, after we start with the session. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46748	I thank the chairman. I am glad, first of all, that Serbian citizens could see that some MPs across the street are coming to work at four o'clock, even though they were due at ten. We also had confessions from some of them, though. They tried to justify themselves, to wash themselves, to say that they had some activity of eight, so by force they arrived at four in the congregation. In this way, they only showed their respect for this institution, but they also showed their respect, that is, for those same citizens of Serbia. When it comes to the amendment, we are all aware that construction is one of the most important industries. We are all aware that construction is a shock to other business branches and for this reason I have submitted an amendment that represents direct support for this bill, so the proposal for a law on construction products. It is also important here to point out that for the first time in this way, the whole area is uniquely regulated and harmonised with standards and positive EU practice. I, as someone who comes from Belgrade, simply have to look at some facts when it comes to construction ventures in the city of Belgrade. So, just in 2018, as we heard, the city of Belgrade issued construction permits for a total of 750,000 squares and location conditions for over a million squares. In Gilas' time, that figure never crossed 250,000 squares. Besides, these across the street can come out at any moment and look at it, compare the number of cranes today, and compare the number of cranes that it used to be in Gilas' time. So, at this point, there are currently 1,450 different construction sites in Belgrade, which are private, which is state-owned, and that is tenfold more than at best someone while Gilas exercised power. It says it is being built in Belgrade, which says Belgrade is attractive to investment and that we achieve excellent results when it comes to building Belgrade. What he would further point out is that everyone who builds has absolutely equal treatment. So, with this bill, but also with amendments to the Law on Law on Law on Planning and Construction, we introduce a complete order in these areas, we remove all the shortcomings we have and we promote and develop further development of cities and municipalities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46749	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Natas Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46750	I had to react, Mr. Marinkovic, after the presentation of my colleague Markovic, because he didn't tell the whole truth. He probably didn't make it, and that's the injured article 107. You could have added it, too, because you know very well this information that I'm going to talk about. In fact, it wasn't only in Gilas' time that there was a catastrophic robbery of Belgraders and manipulations in construction operations, it all actually started, Mr Marinkovic in 2001 when this creation of Bozovic and others who came today to defend Dragoslav Šumarca literally destroyed all the famous Serbian construction firms overnight. A certain Dragan, what was the name of that mobster, Kopcalic, a "yellow" official, is a real criminal, a mobster man, who at the time when Balsa Bozovic was president of the youth of the DS, that mobster destroyed the largest Serbian construction firm and became the king of Belgrade's housing company through his company, "Monter". No one could do anything. So they would now take power again, but this time by violent means, the people will not, with the help of the Americans, their Western employers, Soros, who knows who. It won't be possible, because those people they left out of work and today curse the day they came to power, who ruined Serbia. Serbia at that "yellow time" was and they did so, almost a house without a foundation and without a roof.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46751	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. No, no, no, Balša Bozovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46752	I'm really surprised that the one who's the boss in this assembly is afraid to allow you a replica, to get a replica because it's obviously so much fear in the ruling ranks of any arguments, and then I have to spend time on the amendment. All right, it's not hard for me, I can do it like that. I very much commend, one small depression, this co-operation between the SRS and the SNS, and I am glad that your majority has increased in this assembly. What I wanted to ask is how is it possible if all that is true is the speaker of the amendment, the earlier one, said that in Belgrade it is built at 700,000-800,000 squares a year, etc., how can a small 70m street be reconstructed worth 150m dinars? Twenty thousand euros for one meter of street? Twenty thousand euros? Really good for you, it never happened in Belgrade's history. Here, you really have every confession, with the prosecution being the one that should have responded to that confession. Natasa Jovanovic is a SNS MP. What was proposed by the ruling majority, as an amendment, is that the SNS advocates that everything that has been illegally built in the last three years, although not subject to this law, is legalized and legalised. Every tycoon he's built in the last three years thousands and hundreds of thousands of squares, you've given him your amendment to legalize everything. Natasa Jovanovic proposed an amendment in front of the SNS and she said on behalf of the entire SNS – let's not legalise this until 2015, as Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic suggested these amendments and amendments to the law, but to extend until the law came into force, by the end of 2018. You're legalizing a thief. You want to absolutely legalize every illegal shop in Serbia in the last three years. You have proposed this amendment and we will wait to see if you will vote for that amendment, I believe that you will because you promised to the tycoons and because the tycoons knew this law would come on the agenda. You're doing it because you're in contact with the Serbian construction mafia and this is proof of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46753	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. Replica Aleksandar Martinovic, then Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46754	As for the tycoon, if someone's in league with the tycoons, it's, I don't know what to call them anymore, what's your name now? Alliance for Serbia? So, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradović, DS, Dusan Petrovic, etc. All of them are now in the same crowd and calling the SNS for some alliance with the tycoons. I of the larger tycoons, so Serbia of the larger tycoons than Dragan Djilas, of Vuk Jeremic, has not seen Dusan Petrovic in her life. Explain where Dragan Gilasu got 25m euros in his account? Where did Vuk Jeremic get eight million euros? People, where did you get so many millions of euros? What did you do in your life, so you acquired so much property? Tell me, please, so that I can give advice to a friend of ours, a colleague, a relative -- people, you do what Dragan Gilas did, if it's all fair, you'll have 25 million euros in your account. The biggest thieves, the biggest criminals, those who have ruined Serbia, those who have left 400,000 people without jobs in four years, are now presented as an alternative to Alexander Vukic and an alternative to the SNS. All the factories in Serbia have been shut down, up to one, including this factory in the King which we are now opening. And then you mock, in the most brutal way possible insult, you twist the words of Alexander Vukic because he is grateful to the Turkish investor who has hired, or who will hire 2,500 Royals to work, which you have left without a job. So, you explain, where did your boss get 25 million euros? Where did Vuk Jeremic get that kind of money? How is it possible that Vuk Jeremic is getting money from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin? What did he do for Qatar? The same Qatar that finances the Islamic state in Iraq and Syria to cut heads off Christians, hostages, Syrian soldiers, etc. Then you answer, and you are the greatest destroyers of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46755	Thank you. Okay. [[Balsa Bozovic: replica.]] I just said what's your turn. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46756	To remind the public that in 2003, the SRS shot DOS out of power. One of the basic reasons, the colleagues who were with us at the time in the parliamentary group, and Martinović and Arsic, know that we had a folder and a folder of materials and most of it, of these malversions were precisely about the construction and the Dragoslav Šumarac. That's all the rest is recorded and everything can be checked. In that DOS, in another form, were both Gilas and Balša and Vuk Jeremic and Dusan Petrovic. So now Stamatovic and Bosko Obradovic joined. Sanda was now and then, so now they're called "Snow and Seven Dwarves", I guess because of her seven dwarves, morals, whatever you want, political ones, they can't be called anything else. It is, indeed, a group of criminals, and that they are not in prison, which is the problem of those who are now in power, because really, when they are seen, their picture can be freely signed 100 years in prison, without running a court case. So it's about seriously dangerous people both in the country and in the interests of this people. On the side, not on the side, but above all, the fact that Vuk Jeremic is the main NATO lobbyist with Boris Tadic, and Boris was, by the way, Balshin godfather, and Balsin's father, Zeka Bozovic, at the time they burned the Assembly, so when they came to power, he was in crisis headquarters, he went from one health institution to another and replaced the directors. I don't know if you remember that. Otherwise, I'll finish this, those who defend Dragoslav Šmarca... Just this sentence, why are you impatient, for God's sake, mate?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46757	Where did you get that? No, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46758	So Dragoslav Šumarac is also known for having lost power when he lost power at the same time at the Management Board of Post, in the Chamber of Engineering, at the Faculty of Civil Engineering. For three reasons he received serious compensation, and then he came to think of it, so for some newspapers he said – The engineering chamber is an esnafian institution, it's not a state institution, so that third salary doesn't matter, and he mostly took it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46759	Thank you. The right to replica has Aleksandar Markovic, then Balša Bozovic. Here you go. Since you, a colleague of Bozovic, mentioned him by the name and last name of a colleague of Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46760	I see a colleague across the street has mixed both the location conditions and the building permit and the numbers. He got it all wrong. Didn't he break up or don't he know the procedure, I don't know now? You know, when someone sleeps till 4:00 in the afternoon, everything goes wrong in his head. So, just for public reasons, last year, so in 2017, when it comes to the city of Belgrade, construction permits were issued for a million and 24,000 square meters, and in Gilas' time up to 250,000 square meters. So four times less. This year, therefore, at the conclusion of September 30th this year is 750,000 squares and over a million location conditions. Do you know, Mr. Chairman, why there's such a difference between our city government and Gilas City Authority? Because as Gilas exercised city power, he wasn't interested. He was interested in other matters, and the results of his interest are numerous affairs that we have not received today. So, the acquisition of trams, the reconstruction of King Alexander's boulevard, the great affair with underground containers and, ultimately, the biggest affair, the bridge affair on Ada. So the previous speaker should give us answers to these questions, instead of asking for answers to something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46761	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is Balša Bozovic, right on line. Excuse me, colleague Bozovic. The word is Gjorge Komlenski, Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic throws. Please be patient. You've just entered the O.R., you can be as patient as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46762	Thank you, Chairman. You've allowed a violation of article 27. You really need to take care of the order here at the assembly session. You allowed your colleague Markovic to show one misunderstanding and intolerance towards the complete decomposition of Mr Balša Bozovic. You know, he's been with the Schumartz today, according to his own eight-hour statement, and he probably passed six or seven exams, so I'm not sure if Mr. Lawman from "bonafides" didn't become an engineer. I'm really asking you to work on that a little bit with your colleagues from the ruling set, to have consideration and tolerance. Still, the concentration isn't just the question when you got out of bed, when you woke up, it's what you dreamed of this morning from eight o'clock to five o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46763	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. I'm always intolerant and that kind of relationship. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has Mr. Balša Bozovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46764	Thank you. So, all insults to my account can be hanged there somewhere about a wedge. I would also like to hear from Minister Zorana Mihajlovic – will you support the amendment of Natasha Jovanovic of the SNS, which says that all the tycoons have been mutilated by everything they have illegally built in the last three years? It's a simple question and then you insult, when you don't have an answer or you don't know what you're going to say. After we caught you, out of the thousand amendments you suggested, one of you thought we wouldn't read. So, Natasa Jovanovic, who suggested on behalf of the SNS amendment that everything they've been building in the last three years, is that your policy, are you behind it? Will the Ministry support this? Will it support what the Serbian construction mafia has been doing in the last three years? That's funny to you because this is how you're going to get sick of Serbia. Without any law being built in the last three years and then the deadline for the legislation is moved from 2015 to 2018. Serbia's advanced party by name and last name stands behind the fact that everything they've been building in the last three years has been mutilated by all the tycoons. You may be insolent in this way, you may insult, but this is your folk letter, the SNS MP, so all the tycoons are mutilated by everything they've illegally built in the last three years. I wonder if the minister will support this SNS proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46765	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. I've got a full display, but first there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure according to the Rules of Procedure. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46766	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Article 107 has been injured. I call on Mr Balša Bozovic to read the amendment to Natasa Jovanovic, so let's see if the amendment mentions tycoons, mobsters, criminals, and that Serbian citizens hear exactly how the amendment reads. So, I'm not asking for anything big, just to get Mr. Balsa Bozovic up, I'm asking you most kindly to let him get up, to read exactly what the amendment has been made by our SNS colleague, so let's see if there's mention of tycoons, mobsters, criminals, or any of what Balsa Bozovic said. What interests Serbian citizens, not only the SNS, as it is possible that the highest road bridge in the world, in France costs 400m euros, 2460mm in length, 343mm in height, has seven pilons, and that the Gilas bridge costs 400m euros, is less than a kilometer long, has a height of 200m and has one pylon. That's what Serbian citizens are interested in, so we'll see whose side the tycoons, the mobsters, and those who represented the construction mafia in Serbia by 2012. And now, Mr. Marinkovic, once again I ask you to let Mr. Balša Bozovic, here, the man is freshly drowsy, much more rested than I do, let him read that famous SNS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46767	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Balša Bozovic, you have the right to make an amendment to speak You have no right, I can't give you... [[Balsa Bozovic: I was looking for a replica.]] You can pick up the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46768	I had a replica, but well, again, he's afraid of Aleksandar Martinovic every kind of replica, because he knows he's powerless and knows it's not true on his side. But here, I'll read it. So, Natasa Jovanovic, a national SNS MP, since the proposal issued by Zorana Mihajlovic to the Assembly that the subject of the law can only be an object visible in the 2015 satellite video of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Jovanovic suggests that all of this be deleted, quote – until the date of entry into force of this law, 2018. So, all the tycoons, all the mobsters who've been illegally building in the last three years have been mutilated by everything they've done in agreement with SNS that the rest of the citizens didn't know. So, a small circle of people was well informed, they had good information, that at some point this law would come to the Assembly, and that the amendment of the SNS would make it so scandalous that everything that has been built in the last three years, which the citizens had no right to build, but it was those who were the construction mafia in Serbia, that they were strengthened by this SNS proposal. So, among other things, the hotel on the bathroom. So, the hotel on the Kopalnik is in this SNS amendment. Now it's legal for the hotel to mutilate. That's what this is about. And I call on Natasha Jovanovic to explain his amendment, not me to explain her amendment. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46769	Comrade Bozovic, please refrain from emotion and such difficult words. Although I can understand you, this is still the heat of a political struggle. We're moving on, Miss Radeta. Thank you. [[Natasa St. Jovanovic: I pray for a replica, I am right. Don't pretend you don't see me.]] Don't throw it to me. There's a fine for it under the Rules of Procedure. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46770	Article 32. First I would ask my colleague Rancic, I heard that he is an excellent expert in his profession, to see some little pills, for this Balša Bozovic, obviously and loses his nerve, not only is he not mentally prepared for this debate, which shows from four hours, since he came in, for him the first shift, but the man no longer knows what he's talking about. In fact, he's malicious, he's ten times, and you've had to warn him about it, Mr. Chairman, he's talked at least 10 times about the amendment and spoke to the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic. With all due respect to counterpart Natasa Jovanovic from the SNS, somehow when you say Natasa Jovanovic in parliament is more connected to Natasa Jovanovic from the SRS, and he deliberately turned his attention, and you yourself know when you call one or the other Natasha Jovanovic, to speak both middle names, or two middle letters, because their fathers' names begin with the letter S. You had to warn him. The fact that they got together, you don't know who they're with anymore, that's their business. We are Serbian radicals, here an independent, opposition political party, the strongest opposition party in parliament. The fact that in some attitudes we have in relation to what Balsa Bozovic says, similar attitudes, it has nothing to do with any of our relationships, etc. We are the opposition to power, but we are the opposition and those who want to take power, because they are much worse than those who are in power now, and that is why we fight not to let them come to power. We fight, of course, for these to go, but let's replace them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46771	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I really don't know who Balsa Bozovic meant. I can guess. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107, 108, 109. Namely, you were obliged to give some measure to Mr Balša Bozovic. This is where he finished his speech screaming that you weren't ashamed, mentioning the mob. What would be the shame of his mob? I suggest that all these parties, yellowish, have their seats in Schiller's and have their pool in common. But they collapsed to remove their traces of inhumanity. We didn't sell three sugars for three euros. That's what a close man, the financial director of DS, bought him. We didn't sell drug dealers combined very cheaply to cocaine dealers. That man's name was Saric, he was their best investor. They sold him most of the combinations in Vojvodina. We didn't sell and trade to mobsters. Bojan Pajtic was seen on a plane with Mr. Saric. I think even Saric might be a bigger gentleman than them, maybe he's a smaller mob than they are. In their time, I will use the expression Zoran Djindjic, quote -- every country had a mafia. In their time after Djindjic, only the mafia had its own state. So I quote their president. So it could have happened to them alone, and that's why the DS lived to be embalmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46773	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46774	Chairman, I must re-advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, now and Article 103 concerning Article 27. I really ask my colleagues when they comment that they have any consideration that this is about Bonafides' legal degree, which does not differ from Article 107. The Rules of Procedure don't have three positions, there's only two, but that's not what they learned. And if there's an engineer here by nightfall, if we get there early to finish this session, there's a Forester waiting for him to sign his degree in some woods next to, maybe in Pioneer Park. So don't expect someone to even know what amendment he's talking about and what he's reading. I ask you, for this very reason, that you finally give our colleague Natasha Jovanovic a word, that the woman says what she really is and what the amendment has written, that it has nothing to do with this lie we're listening to here. His ignorance is not the justice of his lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46775	Thank you. If they were to enable me, I would also give in that right and order, when it comes to reporting and when it comes to the right to replication. The right to replica has Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46776	I apologize to counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, I think she will also have the opportunity to say, since she is mentioned, but for the citizens of Serbia, Balsa Bozovic is a man who always makes me uncomfortable as surprised as he is ready to lie without blinking. It writes well here – the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Serbian Radical Party MP group, October 15, 2018, president of the National Assembly – on the basis of Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we submit to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Law on Law-Making, the following amendment - in Article 2 of new Article 6(1). The bill, after the wording "object", adds the text "until the day of entry into force of this law", and the rest of the text is deleted, MP Natasa Jovanovic, but Ms Natasa Jovanovic from the SRS parliamentary group. And Balsa Bozovic kills a man to explain how Natasa Jovanovic of the SNS filed some amendment in which we defend tycoons, in which we defend mobsters, in which we defend criminals, in which we seek something to legalise what is illegally built, and as you can see, neither is the SNS amendment, nor is any tycoon or mobster mentioned after all. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Marinkovic, most kindly, to take care of what Gilas' MPs say here in the Serbian Parliament. Apparently they've mixed up the speeds, they don't know who they belong to or what they're supposed to say anymore. They've mixed up who belongs to a group of MPs. So this is about the amendment tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, but from the SRS parliamentary group, not Natasa Jovanovic from the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46777	Thank you. After all this time, since it has been mentioned so many times, the word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, straight to the replica. Please, let's give our colleague a chance and a right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46778	Thank you. I'm finally in a position to say a few words, because I've been mentioned several times since, unfortunately, I have to say, colleagues across the street, Balša Bozovica, who brings up, I can't tell the truth, this is about a disgusting lie. The other thing is, we've heard him named by now as a college graduate at the Bona Fides Club. I've heard at this point that he can't even read and he's scratching letters. Maybe it's the situation he might be tired of, but I don't think so. When diplomas can be passed on to clubs, maybe, who knows, and so far, schooling's got something wrong. My amendment reads in Article 1. The draft law on construction products adds item 2 which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the growth of economic potentials." I have submitted four amendments, and all relate to the Construction Products Act, and no amendments to the legislation. So, all this stuff that's been said, and I'm asking the citizens to keep that in mind. Now, my colleague, I understand why he doesn't know us, I'm with the SNS, by the way, my name is Natasa Jovanovic, a co-worker from the SRS, also named Natasa Jovanovic. However, a colleague spends so little time here in the Assembly, or he's just flying in, out, and pulls out a card, so he hasn't even been able to get to know us. I'm also asking for an apology on this occasion because I don't want anyone to muddle my name. Last time your colleague, also chairman, I drew attention to what he could come up with when he wasn't using this. Jovanovic or Stanoje, a colleague is Spasoje and that is the situation. But that's why I insisted. Well, look what it comes to. However, I ask for an apology from, call my colleagues Balša Bozovic, because the disgusting lies serve me more in my mouth not to take.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46779	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. It seems that the Faith of Radeta was right. In accordance with Article 112, break 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46780	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work further. You have no right to a replica, my colleague Bozovic. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46781	Thank you, Chairman, we've heard everything and everything, from across the street and today and the previous days, but a little bit of smart, better say nothing, here's what I've given them. We tried people, but from what he said, we couldn't even hear anything, except lies to lies. Well, we even found out, despite the fact that the thieves, who destroyed this country, who robbed everything they got, the whole tree, they robbed everything that came into this country, we found out they didn't even know anything. But they also talked about history, so it's time for us to say a little bit about that history now. Those who attacked here today, of course, show that they can't even read, attacked the SNS, forgot to say that they looked back at their history, when they ruled Belgrade, so they left a historic debt, from a billion to 200 million in the city of Belgrade, so they left historical debt to families, from 400 million, who returned and returned to their families, so they left historical debt to pensioners, so they historically left the unemployment rate in Serbia to 27%, so they historically fired 400,000 people from their jobs, so they historically closed down all the factories in this country. All that remains recorded, as the worst part, the saddest part, part of this country's history. This, extensive historical robbery of Serbia. Now, they came in today, woke up, forgot to wash themselves, woke up about two, stopped by the Ice Bar to have some coffee, came to the Assembly, to spill some nonsense, to show they couldn't even read, at least if they had learned to read, at least so much. Well, a man to forgive them, to say read something, they don't even know it. But it's not their fault they don't understand anything. They're guilty of their bad intentions, there was little to them once that they got on this people's backs in 2000, not one meter of time, not one factory, not one new job, everything they touched was ruined. Well, it's their SNS now, which we've done more highways than in the last 40 years. Well, it's now SNS and Alexander Vukic that we've hired new 180,000 people in Serbia, 180,000 families. You from the strangulation alliance, rape and all that, you didn't know how to help people, you knew how to help them. You knew how to degrade society. They knew everything in Serbia that was created for decades only to destroy. Today, when you pass through Serbia, you see hundreds of kilometers of highways, you see the airport, which records record visits, millions of tourists cross the airport "Nikola Tesla", you see bridges that really exist, are not models, are not projects, are not costing half a billion euros to Serbian citizens. You see the land that goes forward. You see the King who won the factory yesterday with over two thousand jobs and he'll get more. You see Nis with seven factories. You see from south to north, west and east of Serbia factory by factory, in every place Vladicin Han, Lebanese, Vranje, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac. You see the clinical centers that are being restored. You've ruined it all and ruined it. Of course, it's all the SNS' fault and we'll remain guilty, because the growth at the end of this year is going to be over four and a half percent, because there's going to be a pay increase in the public sector as well. Because we've already made a decision to raise pensions for our pensioners and that's why we'll be guilty. Because the citizens of Serbia will live better and better, and you only dream after some of the next choices may touch the censorship with some association, strangler or rapist, so that helps you. Different for you here is hardly going to be a place, you're free of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46782	According to the amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46783	So, I have not yet received an answer from the ruling party in this parliament whether in the voting day to support amendment by Natasha Jovanovic, who says the hotel in Kopalnik needs to be torn down... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46784	My colleague Bozovic, you don't talk about the amendment first, and you've come to the amendment, and my advice, as an older and more experienced colleague, is to apologize to your colleague, Natasha Jovanovic, for being a gentleman. To accept responsibility for what you do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46785	It wasn't Mr. Arsic that I mixed up Natasha Jovanovic, it was the MPs' clubs. So, what's the point... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46786	You can't mix up Natasa Jovanovic without mixing up parliamentary clubs, that's impossible, so they're not twins. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46787	So you have the same explanation, the same policy, how do I not mix two SRS and SNS MPs. Well, you've been working together all day. One more thing, I don't need to apologize to anyone, but you should apologize to the citizens for insulting the intelligence of every sane man in Serbia because you are not allowing some criminal and mobster to knock down the hotel, and then at the small door, not to mention which party it is, but it is a letter from Natasa Jovanovic, you are proposing an amendment to curtail everything that has been illegally built in Serbia over the last three years. I was just asking the minister if the SNS would support the amendments' voting day to cut down everything the tycoons in Serbia have been building for the last three years. What's so hard about that? So when I speak with the SNS, I answer to the SRS, and then I get the impression that it's the same MP group. I ask you, question Zorani Mihajlovic referred to, will you agree to adopt this amendment in the day of the vote? Do you support that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46788	My colleague Bozovic, I must tell you, I gave you my word and I let you go, because I was hoping you'd end up being a gentleman after all. Obviously, you don't even know how to spell the amendment, because if you did, you wouldn't have made such mistakes. So, on the left hand side goes the logo of the National Assembly, and then goes the parliamentary group to which the MP who submits the amendment belongs. And one more thing to tell you, as an older colleague. Learn once that when you make a mistake, and it's human error, this is a mistake like any other, and it can happen to anyone, that at least once you apologize for your mistake fellow MP. Since it's hard for you to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for everything you've done, at least a colleague you directly put in an awkward situation, that she supports some tycoons. According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46789	Article 106, Mr. Chairman, which defines acceptable or unacceptable content of discussion and conduct in the National Assembly. You're absolutely right and because of what you just said, I'm telling you in advance – I'm not asking you to make a statement about this injury. Balsa Bozovic was obliged to make an apology first. Not to us, it is clear to us that this man is not capable of telling the truth, but to a MP who has not been able to get out of his mouth for the past hour. She's been saying her name and last name for an hour, she's been pointing at her when she talks about SNS, and she claims that a woman did something she didn't do. And we're telling him here it's not true, we show him when he's handed over what the amendment is, what the contents of ours and what some others are, then he gets up, reads, and of course there's not a single comma behind what he's been saying he writes there. And man doesn't find it appropriate to say at least some basic things, like – I was wrong, I'm sorry. I didn't mean it like that. I meant it like that. Whatever he said, just not what he said now. So that's, to express ourselves to the end of a precise, completely raw lie. And how raw lies are, and everything else we listen to. He was talking about some street he said about today, I don't know if you remember it, he said four days ago that 75 meters of street cost 150m euros. Well, 150m euros is in the rocks the other day. As true as that can be, so much as this, when he's caught in a flagrant lie today. As much as it is a raw, completely banal lie, it is as much a lie as what they claim to be about Alexander Vukic and what they write in their statements about him, insulting his family, and about their highly minded and talented tweets. It's all one thing after another, a pure, raw lie. He mentioned something else. He mentioned the same policy. When he wakes up to finally apologize for his duties and fellow Members Jovanovic and this National Assembly, he is obliged to explain the same policy he has today with Latvians and fascists. To stand up and explain whether he has mastered the pieces of Dimitri Ljotic. If we're talking about the same policy, it's his policy and theirs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46790	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46791	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if the Rules of Procedure allows you to do so, but I think it is necessary for you to take the measure of sending Balša Bozovic to wash. He needs it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46792	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46793	I was fine at 4 p.m. when Balsha woke up from his sleep and came here, said he was obviously not mentally prepared to follow this debate. In addition, he is also very rude, as he deliberately called counterpart Natasu Jovanovic from the Serbian Progressive Party. Actually, who knows if he saw it? He reached some amendment, and I'm surprised that none of you presidents noticed, we are now on amendment to Article 1, and he was talking about the amendment of Natasha Jovanovic from the Serbian Radical Party to Article 2. So he missed both MPs and a member. And the law missed, it's not this law at all. The man obviously missed this place at all. When he slept until four, he could continue until the end of the day, let us work as nice as humans. The mention of this Article 2, amendments to Article 2, which we won't even be able to talk about because of these amendments that are on the agenda before that, he spoke -- Natasa Jovanovic of the Serbian Progressive Party, and I repeat, the amendment was Natasa Jovanovic of the Serbian Radical Party, in any case, connecting those MPs with some construction mob, again, made a mistake again. Kopchalic is an DS mobster. He was the biggest mobster in the area of construction, because Kopcalic and his firm "Montera", he is from the DS. So Balsa Bozovic really messed everything up today. If they asked him at the front door what his name was, he might say Zeka Bozovic, the man obviously doesn't even know his name. Of course, well said Natasa Jovanovic about whose amendment he was talking about, he is indeed one of the most common creations that mocks the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46794	The right to reply, slowly to my colleague Bozovic, you have a little bit more, you have done, and here's counterpart Natasa Jovanovic reporting, I don't believe you'll get an apology, but here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46795	To be honest, I didn't expect an apology from Balša Bozovic. I would say a saying by Napoleon Bonaparte, if he is smart, he will understand what I am talking about: “A fool has a great advantage over a smart man. He's always happy with himself. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46796	Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46797	Thank you, Chairman. On this occasion, I will support counterpart Natasa Jovanovic of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46798	My colleague Žarić, I'm sorry, please, my colleague Bozovic, you have challenged four or five replicas and are now asking for every replica you have caused to receive the right to replication. It won't work. Ask for the word again, colleague Žaric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46799	I repeat what I said earlier, which is that I will support my colleague Natasa Jovanovic from the SNS parliamentary group, who has been called here so many times today and who has responded quite nicely. I have been patiently sitting and listening, not only since four afternoons, since some came to work, but since 10:00 this morning and I have to say that we now have a situation here that those who have allegedly advocated European values, those who have spoken in their pre-election campaigns, will lead Serbia into the EU, are now criticising the laws that will work to bring our legislation into line with the EU. Not only that, they say they're protecting the profession, but I'm actually hearing here that they're protecting some engineers who obviously didn't deserve it, at least given how much I could hear today in today's debate, and it's about doing their job right now. I have to admit that at any time when they're protecting someone across the street, I think right now, and my first association is that they must have some interest, so now whether it pays Gilas or Wolf Jeremic, we're going to see it, but they have some interest. Without that, it can't go beyond that that they don't even talk about the amendments they come up with, that they don't even talk about the draft laws that are on the agenda, but they're talking about some other draft laws that will come up on the agenda later. This ex-post mind is getting more and more pronounced and suddenly they're worried about the profession, suddenly they're worried about fighting crime and corruption, about wild construction, and that's all I'm telling you. It's some empty story, some floscules paid by Gilas and Jeremic, that's what happens in this assembly. I, the chairman, have to tell you, I don't even find that interesting anymore. These attacks on the SNS, now the names of every MP from the SNS parliamentary group, that doesn't make any sense anymore. I know it hurts. I know it's such an election result of pain and I know it hurts what we've been doing and what we're doing and what we're going to do, but give it at least once in a session to be human.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46800	You're bringing the end, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46801	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46802	Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46803	Thank you. Here, for the third time, for the fourth and fifth time. So, are you going to insult me, I'm telling you that again, I don't trust the citizens very much and that I'm interested. These insults that are pronounced in the Assembly, believe me, there is absolutely nowhere in any parliament in the world. So that's one thing. The other thing is whether you will apologize to the citizens of Serbia. What is important is that we know whether the position of this SRS coalition, SNS, is going to vote in the election day for Mrs Natasha Jovanovic's amendment to tighten the hotel in Kopalnik? You didn't answer that question. Will the bell be on or not? Or did you think that out of 1,000 amendments, you'd get away with this without anyone reading it? Well, really, do you think DS MPs don't do their job zealously? Well, we can't get away with anything. There's nothing that can go through with what you've come up with. So what's important is that this amendment has been legalized for the last three years of illegal construction. If you thought it would go through the needle's ears, it wouldn't. The public needs to know this. Once again, what's important to the citizens is that they know if fair is being punished after this amendment? Are those people who paid fairly, handed over the paperwork, paid their building permits, and these mobsters who build everything and everything around the municipalities and cities across Serbia, by national parks, they are, what, absolved from responsibility? Well, how do you think such a law can be passed and passed? You still haven't denied it. Here, for the fourth time and you still don't deny whether or not you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46804	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46805	A little bit of my turn. From you, Mr. Balsha, no one can get in line. All the talk you're saying has nothing to do with the brain, but start from the beginning. To be honest, I did not expect as chairman that you would apologize to SNS MPs, since everything your members write against the SNS, the president, and, above all, to women, it is clear to me that you will not do so, so that there is nothing to expect. That is how it is with them, and I think it will be the citizens of Serbia and how they will know when they are in the elections as it is. Secondly, regarding the amendment you mentioned, not only did you make a mistake first or miss a letter. Secondly, you've missed the whole law you're talking about. Thirdly, if you'd read the law, if you'd been on one committee, if you'd looked at at at least one answer, then you might know and probably know, but now you're trying to explain in some direct transmission that the SNS is doing something wrong, and you're terribly honest, etc. Well, it's not like that. On the contrary, the amendment was rejected. So, what the SRS is proposing won't be able to do, because that automatic concept changes completely the law, and it's us who are trying to solve these issues that you left us. Why don't we keep reminding ourselves that two million illegally built objects were created after the rule of the DS and their people from Jeremic, Gilas, Jankovic and I don't know Tadic, Cvetkovic and now I don't count them all. When you mention the reconstruction of the roads, also be so moral, if that's possible in your case, so say every time we reconstructed, rehabilitated, we didn't raise the road and the asphalt, but we had to change the entire communal infrastructure that hasn't been changed for 30 years. When you're talking about prices, then take a look at the structure of what's going on. Seriously, the question is, where are the millions, where are tens of millions of euros spent on reconstructions, supposed road and rail reconstructions? You've reconstructed in the rails about a mile and a half, in the roads of about 20 or 30 kilometers. So these are all the questions that you have to answer one day, so that these attacks on the government, on the SNS that we're doing against the law are primarily immoral, the other are complete lies. So, not false, but lies. When you talk about engineers, to return, I remained in your debt, Dragoslav Šumarac, if once there was a construction mafia, if there was a period and years when we could say that there was a construction mafia in Serbia, it was created just during DS and Dragoslav Šumarac as a minister and it was so accurate watching construction firms, looking at the money that was being exported out of the country, watching what you did with construction during that period. Dragoslav Šumarac, if you're talking about his incomes and incomes, which is a little different, in 2015 as the president of the Engineering Chamber pays 236 million dinars, in 2015 this Dragoslav Šumarac, such an honest and phenomenal character. And not only that, he blocked the work of the Engineering Chamber. You in the Engineering Chamber couldn't issue a single license. Do you know what else is scary? Our engineers are much better than being defended by one Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46806	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46807	Yes, Natasha Spasoje Jovanovic. I have to make that distinction. Mr. Arsic, you know that this is my sixth term in the Serbian Parliament with one small interruption while this, what do I call it, a DS fisfir, I don't have another term, believe me, I used all the other epithets today, so I don't repeat myself...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46808	My colleague, what's your name, just a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46809	He tried to mix both the law and me as a person. Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. It is really unnecessary for me to answer to the son of a man, his famous father, a DS official, who wanted to poison half of Serbia. You know, when that affair started, a colleague of Radeta talked about it, so the whole Mokra Gora got on her feet. I personally spoke to our celebrated director, Mr. Kusturica, who was amazed at the fact that Balša Bozovic's father wanted to dig up the entire Wecru Gora by investigating the nickel, because, as he says, so can I. Now he says that the SRS in the SNS, made by his best man Boris Tadic along with him and with the rest of that click, has some arrangements on legalising tycoon business. Well, where will you, Mr. Bozovic, bigger thieves and tycoons than you, your father, Dragan Gilas, the forest man and everyone else from that yellow company? (Verica Radeta: Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic... ) Vuk Jeremic, Tadic and I no longer know who to gather from the stakes and ropes and what our people would say, from the evil father and from the worse mother. Indeed, Mr Arsic, when something like this goes on, you know, that an MP in the Serbian Parliament knows neither where he is, nor any person talking, nor any law, so I suppose you must be like a man who has some longstanding parliamentary experience to react, and you know very well, because then you were in the ranks of the SRS, in any way and any arguments, and how we blow away those who are all but not for the Assembly and are not for the choice of the people, because they will not, as they were not, as they were not wanted in 2003, when both the Schumarac and all that bullulment from the DS were replaced by the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46810	My colleague Jovanovic, I really apologize to you if you think I offended you by not saying your middle letter between name and last name. I'm really sorry. I'm on my feet this morning and don't mind me saying that, but I don't understand why my colleague Bozovic is mixing you, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and other Natasa Jovanovic, when he is in the Assembly for about an hour. I'm setting a break, based on Article 112, for three minutes. [[after breaks]] We continue with the work of fellow MPs. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) First applicant of the amendment, MP Jovica Jevtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46812	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on Article 1 of the proposed Construction Products Act, I am submitting an amendment that precisely defines the link between the proposed legislative solution with the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, Article 1. The draft law lays down the subject matter of the regulation of the law relating to the entire range of conditions and instruments necessary for the implementation of the proposed legislative solution. The most important reason for the adoption of the draft law on construction products is the need to regulate the placing on the market of construction products by general regulation, which has not been arranged so far. Another important reason for the adoption of this law is the fulfilment of the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with European Union regulations. The fact is that the area of construction products is not regulated in a comprehensive and unique way by the general regulation. It is also not possible to further edit the area of construction products in this legal context, which is necessary, given the progress of technology and technology in this area, the emergence of new construction products and the challenges posed by developed markets to the domestic construction industry. Without the legal regulation of this area, the development of construction as a complex activity that involves different services and processes, as well as the construction of finished products in the facility, with the final result being the product that should satisfy the prescribed basic requirements in each respect. The existing legal framework for construction products, however, does not respect specific construction products in relation to all other products. Construction as an important factor in sustainable development in strategic terms is one of the most important industries, as it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. It requires the development of legislation, which regulates the area to be a permanent process, and the instruments for achieving quality policy in this area are very complex and to a certain extent different from those relating to other areas. The adoption of the proposed legislative solution enables the development of construction, an area that has been deployed and affects all areas of social life. That is why the proposed amendment also goes in the direction of supporting the idea of Serbia's even development, as construction certainly has the most impact on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46813	By amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46814	Mr. Arsic, I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, not by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46815	Well, here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46816	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. Can you tell me, since many are reporting that there is no more transmission directly to RTS, you have to notify the House of the National Assembly whether or not there is no direct transmission? If there is, tell us. If it doesn't exist, the citizens are interested, gentlemen of the elderly, I know it's very comforting for you. On the other hand, it's very important that we know if we're in direct transmission and why this direct transmission has been abolished? That's my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46817	We'll check on my colleague Bozovic. We have no information that the transmission will be interrupted. We'll see about RTS, which is a public service, what about that transmission, and we'll let you know about it. A colleague of Orlic's in business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46818	Article 103, position 8. Mr. Chairman. Since this was obvious, saving time, I don't think we should stay on it after all, but we should align the effects of what just happened. So, everything's nice and fair. The man answered, nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, you heard it yourself. It's nice to make up for the time of the parliamentary group. It's no big deal. An interest in why, as it were, the transmission was interrupted? I think first Mr. Bozovic could give us an answer to that question. There they are in RTS all the very frames set by the Democratic Party. There must be a number of phones for anyone who deals with technical issues, transfer issues, and anyone who deals with editorial policy, so if he thinks it's being transferred or not being a matter of political attitude or editorial policy he probably knows personally Mr. Bozovic knows anyone who should be asked about it. Let's get rid of it. It's coming down with its shoulders. You know, Mr. Chairman, you know that, that's why I don't ask that we plead on that point. We're not in this room because first of all we'd be in a transmission, and that's not what needs to be our priority. I want to show understanding for everyone and in every situation and it occurred to me that Balsa Bozovic might have wanted to explain what I called for to explain for a moment, to explain how she now represents the ideology of Dimitri Ljotic, to explain how she agrees with the crime policy against her own people, to explain how she agrees with anti-Semitism policy. He may have wanted to explain these things, but to do it in a solemn and important way, in a direct transmission, to be heard by all the members of our people, when he explains his new ideology stemming from his new political association. If he wanted to do so in a direct transmission, I understand, but it would be best if he and his co-ordinator, his current head in the National Assembly, Bosko Obradovic, were caught by hand, to come to those journalists before whom today Balša Bozovic lied in one and 15 unearthly that our MP had submitted something to explain to them how all the most beautiful of them together saw and interpreted in Dmitry Ljotic, the movement "The Assembly", the policy of war crimes and anti-Semitism. That would be the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46819	Before I give you my word, my colleague Bozovic, that we have received an official statement from RTS that from 17 hours and 57 minutes, there will be no transmission, direct transmission of the session of the National Assembly, and for the reasons of the transfer welcome volleyball in front of the City Assembly, which will be broadcast on the programme on which the session of the National Assembly is normally broadcast. (Balsa Bozovic: After the amendment. ) The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46820	Thank you. So, what's important is, Mr. Arsic, that you didn't give me a line for who knows which time today, but it's important for the citizens to know, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia said she was confused by what I said was the construction mafia that is ruling today and what I would just like to ask one more time, why if the construction mafia doesn't rule today, why doesn't the hotel collapse in Kopalnik, Mrs. Mihajlovic? So, why doesn't the SNS crash under number one hotel in Kopalnik and why the SNS won't answer me, here's the 17th time I'm asking if in the voting day they'll support the amendment to mutilate everything that's been built against the law in the last three years? So, please, just don't let us hear that denial... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46821	My colleague Bozovic, I have to interrupt you, I really do. Really. So, you got the first word on the amendment, you came here about an hour ago, and I apologized to my colleague Jovanovic that I got up at five o'clock this morning, so 13 full hours ago... (Balsa Bozovic: I at 4:30 in the morning. You came here rested. You have come here rested, as far as I can see, with your colleague Bozovic, trying to make a mess in Serbia, trying here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and now I give you a warning. (Balsa Bozovic: Warning? I got a warning? ) Yes, you received a warning because Mrs. Mihajlovic told you that the amendment was rejected by the promoter, that it was not an amendment submitted by the SNS, so she would plead on it... (Balsa Bozovic: Mr Arsic, I asked not the government, but parliament, you know who votes on the amendment, not the Government, but... A colleague of Bozovic's, that's not our amendment. (Balsa Bozovic: I ask if they will vote for him? I really don't understand you. Replica, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46822	This is a very nice situation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and it's very interesting for a man to vote on any amendment, any amendments. In particular, he's heard what the government thinks clearly and what we think, and it's clear that this has nothing to do with anything smart when we talk about his words. The best way to find out how the parliamentary majority is being declared is to come in the voting day, to come and not to sleep all day long for a vote like we do from session to session, so it'll be nice to know everything we voted for, for which we didn't. Of course, I don't expect anyone who asks, and I don't expect them to remember it, because he has shown that he is unable to distinguish or distinguish between MPs or different members of the law or different laws. A man who is able to hold a press conference in one and 15, tells so much nonsense that we just look at each other – What happened to him? Then when he enters the O.R. a few hours later, since he was probably resting, tired and overworked from holding a press conference, we tell him – that's all nonsense, don't deal with it, you missed everything you could miss. Then for another hour he continues to sin, and after another hour to an hour and a half of sin he realizes that he was wrong, but as it was written by Twitter, I missed something, and there's no courage, and there's no cheek, there's not so much elemental dignity to tell a colleague – I insulted you, I wronged you, I apologize to you. At one and fifteen he starts to sin, at half past six he somehow realizes he's wrong, but even when he realizes that he has no cheek to make an apology, and that's due, first of all, to his colleagues. As we vote, it will be very easy to determine. The biggest problem is, because he called a certain gentleman here to some apologies, which they did not realize that they were absolutely in a catastrophic error at all, but they did not yet seem to realize that they were obliged to deliver many apologies to this country. Let's say, apologies to 5,000 people in the Ironworks they wanted to leave on the street. For example, apologies to all the parents in Belgrade who were wronged, so they charged them twice as much, and now the city of Belgrade has to find a million euros each month on that basis. Let's just say for all those citizens who were in charge of this Belgrade for a billion and 200 million, and in Serbia only for much more, and for every school they've ruined, every set of books that have denied children and every social aid they've denied and installed in their expensive suits, 500,000 apologies to instruct people they've thrown out on the street, and then to talk about other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46823	Right to replicate National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46824	Mr Arsic, you can really see from previous exposure and back an hour and a half that Ambassador Bozovic has been completely decompensated, whether that is the case with counterpart Rancic, you are a doctor and expert in the area, who came to this session. If he had come in a state in which he could follow, his absolute argument for discussion, maliciously and tenantly, would not have been an amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group which, to teach you, my colleague Bozovic, is an excellent amendment. Why is this amendment excellent, but it was rejected by the government and Minister Mihajlovic said so? For the reason that the SRS believes that it is necessary to enable all people, not to whom you said in November 2015, but until the day of entry into force of this law, we are even going three years further, to enable them to legalise and that they can legalize everything they built. For what reason? If this letter student of Shumarca had been at a session when Radeta spoke about this law, he could hear that it was because in many towns in Serbia people who have been building certain buildings over the past period, and we have particularly potentiated properties in the country where the son is separated from the family household or grandson, etc. or someone is building a building for a job, no detailed urban regulation plans have been done, and these people are not waiting for something like that to resort to building in such a way. Unlike DS, and Bozovic, and Djilas, and Jeremic, and all as many as there are in that conglomerate of traitors and thieves and seciks, they just destroyed and destroyed, we don't want to collapse, but to give the opportunity and that's why the amendment is great, and that he can't read, which he doesn't know what he's saying, which is neither the day, nor where he came, it's already his problem, and soon they'll be in the past, as the people will punish them in the elections, so one day Balsa Bozovic will talk – I was once in parliament, I've been talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46825	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Compirović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46826	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, today we are political, economic, investment and infrastructure leaders, but also sports leaders in the region. It also proves the success of our volleyball players. These are huge successes in the region. We've stabilized public finances for the last four years and we've managed to open a hundred new factories, bring unemployment down from 26% to 11%. We are leaders in the region by direct foreign investment, and the third in Europe for GDP growth. Thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's policy we have a clear foreign policy and on every political issue his calmness and energy leads us to peace policy, we have the best possible relations with China and Russia. Our country is being built, we have more highways than Croatia, and we had twice as many. These are big things for us, and we have a lot more kilometers of highways than Romania is an EU member, but we will not stop. If we didn't do highways, we wouldn't have any factories or foreign investors. It is easier and nicer for everyone to go across the country and public roads and highways, bridges, so thanks for it is carried by both Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic and her team. They change laws, they bring new ones to step up with time and reach European standards in these areas. We'll have modern transportation and construction. The law on construction products is a new law and as such will regulate the quality of construction products and regulate the market. The most important effect of this law of construction products and raising the quality of materials used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings, with more favourable investor prices enabled by the manufacturer's competition. Projects, investments invested in the KIM premises, the maximum effort of our President Aleksandr Vukic allows the Serb people to last, function and remain in the KIM premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46827	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46828	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed amendment, which adds Article 2 to Article 1 of the proposed law, refers to the development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the increase in investment. In this context, my attention will be devoted to increasing foreign investment, i.e. foreign direct investment. Namely, all developing countries, including Serbia, as a country in transition, see foreign investments as a significant source of economic development, modernisation, growth in employment and income exports. They also have great political, economic significance, as they signal to others that the country has certain performances and an economic future that investment can prove profitable. Without investment, it is practically impossible to achieve economic growth and development in a global environment. Additional benefits from increasing foreign investment in Serbia include the launch of technological transfers and spillovers in domestic economy, aid in the development of human resources and management capabilities. Contribution to international trade, helping create more coherent environments, developing entrepreneurship. It should be noted that the future of Serbia's economy, especially exports, depends largely on increasing foreign investment inflows. For this reason, additional measures should be taken on the plan to create a quality business environment in each respect, which will pose a challenge for foreign investors. Recognizing the multiple importance of foreign investment, the government of the Republic of Serbia, firstly headed by Aleksandra Vukic, and today with Ana Brnabic, has taken all available measures on the plan to create a quality business environment to be seen, above all, in ensuring economic and political stability, improving the quality of the law and making bureaucracy more effective, giving subsidies and incentives to investors, solving infrastructure problems, and all in order to attract new investors to the benefit of citizens. Of course, the positive results are not missing. Unlike the period to 2012, when Serbia failed to attract a larger and continuous inflow of private foreign investment, due to a poor business environment, when the share of the greenfield investment was negligible, while foreign direct investment was primarily in the process of privatising enterprises from profitable activities, such as cementers, brewers, tobacco industry. Serbia has now become a leader in the region at the level of foreign direct investment in GDP, so it has attracted more than half of foreign direct investment in the Western Balkans in the last five years. In 2017, foreign direct investment amounted to 2.4 billion euros, and this year the NBS estimates it will reach 2.6 billion, as it has been 1.1 billion euros for the first five months, 14% more than last year. It should also be apostrophe that foreign investors operating in Serbia are satisfied with the business environment, so about two-thirds of the profits achieved are again investing in expanding their business in our country, which is only a confirmation that Serbia has become a recognizable investment site, especially long-term. If we analyze all relevant parameters in this area, we can be proud of what we've achieved. Many known companies from China, Russia, the EU and other countries have chosen Serbia to invest their capital, and many of them have long-term plans, which means they have come to Serbia to stay. Such a trend will certainly continue as long as SNS is headed by Aleksandra Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46829	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46830	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Deputy Prime Ministers and Associates, the Law on Construction Products as a brand-new law introduces order in the area of construction products and on technical requirements, as well as on compliance with advanced technology in this area. The market for construction products is in constant development, and our producers, who are also export-oriented, have problems harmonising the rules of domestic legislation with foreign market regulations. It is just the development in the area of construction that is one of the drivers of the development of the economy and it is extremely important to enable domestic construction companies to participate in the race on the European and global markets. We are all witnessing how important the infrastructure is for the development of a country, and we are also witnessing how much Serbia has been committed to building infrastructure in recent years, i.e. building roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings. The new regulations will also allow for the development of construction and for building facilities to be safer and more environmentally acceptable throughout the entire century. Strategic construction is one of the most important industries and provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. By introducing a legal framework in this area, we achieve standards that guarantee that only safe and secure construction products will be placed on the market and a clear division of responsibilities in the chain is defined. So we're going to build quality, safe and secure, which is, of course, the basis for long-term infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46831	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46832	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on construction products with the aim of further defining the subject matter of this law. The most important reason for the adoption of this law is the need for a general regulation to regulate the placing on the market of construction products, which has not been arranged so far. The second most important reason is to comply with the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules. The path of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU involves, in addition to many other reform procedures, preparing for opportunities and demands of a competitive common market. This requires great commitment to the quality of products and services. Without the legal regulation of this area, the development of construction as complex activities, which includes different services and processes, as well as the installation of finished products into the facility, with the final result being the product that should satisfy the prescribed basic requirements in each respect. Construction as an important factor in sustainable development in strategic terms is one of the most important industries, as it provides infrastructure facilities for all other economic and social categories. Serbia is now recording positive developments in all sectors, and the construction sector is the main driver of economic growth, as right there, in the second quarter of this year, the largest real growth of gross added value, 22.9%, due to large infrastructure projects of national importance. Serbia has become a country with stable economic growth and stable finances, all thanks to the responsible SNS-led policy with President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46833	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46834	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The bill, which I have proposed to add item 2 with the aim of linking this law to the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that by harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, it will contribute to Serbia's comprehensive development. First of all, we will get a better quality of material used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other objects, and by obtaining better quality of materials that are being built in, we will also have safer facilities for the lives and health of citizens. Secondly, domestic producers operating in Serbia, but also on the EU market, will no longer have the double costs and double procedures they have had so far. Third, we will have domestic accredited bodies to assess compliance, so we will no longer have to hire foreign bodies from the EU. Then, we will make it easier to realise projects financed by EU funds, innovative products will be able to market more easily and speedily, and then, different levels of control will be introduced during production, thus ensuring the continuous quality of the product. All that I mentioned will contribute to the development of construction in Serbia, as one of the most important branches and, of course, to the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46835	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46836	Thank you. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, so that it can be built according to a single procedure consistent with EU standards and best practice, the government of the Republic of Serbia is passing the law. In this way, the construction product market will be regulated, raising the level of quality of materials to be used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings, providing the most favourable prices for investors, as competition will be increased. In fact, Serbia will be more attractive to investors due to favourable conditions, so we can expect more investment. In this way, a successful cycle of progress in construction is being circled. As a key improvement in the area of building land and construction, the efficiency in the implementation of the conversion process is highlighted, a record number of building permits issued thanks to the introduction of a united procedure and e platform, as well as a constant readiness for dialogue with the private sector. Progress is visible in the work on Corridors 10 and 11, it was completed and opened for traffic of the Pirot-Dimitrovgrad highway, and works on the Obrenovac-Surcin section are under way until the end of 2019. Two charging stations for the electric power plant are set up on Corridor 10. In the future, focus should be focused on continuing capacity improvements and quality of transport infrastructure and services, more strongly encouraging public private partnerships and private sector participation in building major road and rail roads in Serbia and in general, in order to maintain a high level of quality of work and competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-22-0.u46837	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 74 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
