ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45624	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 78 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45625	Thank you, President. I'm asking my parliamentary question to the Minister of Health, Zlatibor Loncar. The parliamentary question concerns debt, i.e. non-payment of monthly income to Novi Sad pharmacy by the Republic Health Insurance Fund. In contrast to health institutions in Serbia, pharmacies pay other taxes to employees, but also obligations to suppliers, energy, pay the energy required for their smooth business. All of this pays out of a 12% margin on drug and medical supplies, as well as on aids. Apothecary Novi Sad's business account is due to an unmistakable debt from the earlier period in the blockade. For the purpose of paying off earnings, salaries, travel expenses, severances, jubilee awards, material costs, etc., the Treasury Department has opened a dedicated sub-account which, according to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot be subject to forced enforcement. The payment of those funds, i.e. margins, shall be made by the Republic Health Insurance Office through a branch office in the South-Bačka County of Novi Sad, with mutual consent. Since April 2018, for unknown reasons, the payment of the margin for February has ceased and so is the day of today. The Republic Fund never got an answer in the New Sad branch, didn't give an answer as to why it was happening. The total claim of Novi Sad pharmacy according to the Republic Health Insurance Fund for the March of July 2017 is 9.339.000 dinars and represents in these conditions the business of the pharmacy and one and a half months' earnings for 66 employees, as it is now left there, and is due to them for 11 months' earnings. According to information, the Nova branch has now asked the health ministry for an opinion and has not received it so far. Otherwise, no one knows when the request for an opinion was sent and nothing at the end of it should be declared, because it is prescribed by the Law, the Rules of Understanding and the Government's conclusion defined it all. So, everything that's been sent to the ministry, I don't think it's valid. Since it is a significant asset and debt during the disbursement period, the pharmacy's business is very difficult, so I ask Minister Loncar, when can the Republic Health Insurance Fund expect an opinion and when the pharmacy workers expect that what they have not been paid so far will be paid?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45626	Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45627	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents, the MPs' group of MPs has three questions. The first question is referred to the Ministry of Justice. Since 2006, civil codemaking has been under way in Serbia. So 12 years have passed, the fact is that it's a key code that should last for decades, if not centuries, like in France. But even though every year we have promises that this will be exactly the last year and that this will be the last year, it hasn't happened. Given that many vulnerable groups in Serbia, who are discriminated against on the basis of unsolicited differences and some other criteria, suffer the consequences of not adopting the civil code. My question for the Ministry of Justice is – is the deadline defined this year, as informally announced, or will we have one additional prolonging of the creation of the civil code? The second question is for the Competition Protection Commission. Local self-governments in Serbia often have practices that, in fact, de facto, confirm cartel agreements from their authority, i.e. agreed price formation, which clearly defines that providers of certain types of services cannot provide a price below the minimum agreed price. If there is something that is a classic cartel, it is when many service providers are joined by agreeing on what minimum price it will work at. Article 10. The Competition Protection Act knows institutions when something similar to a restriction on competition can be accepted, but Article 11 makes it very clear what needs to happen in order to see a competitive restriction as beneficial. These are things such as accelerated technical development, such as sharing benefits equally with consumers and service providers and other things that have undeniable positive effects on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the economy. Cartel agreements which define the lowest prices, especially in the area of the provision of local transport services, cannot in any way be part of the explanation that exists in Article 11 paragraph 2 of that law. That would make us very grateful to get the Commission's interpretation of competition protection, such as setting a minimum price, in the spirit of protecting Serbia's competition. The third question is referred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Recent developments in the EU labour market, and in particular in some of the countries that are the biggest, suggest that we will be facing a greater migration of people from the Republic of Serbia very quickly. By moving out, which in its proportions will be difficult to compare with those we have ever had in our history, at least in peacetime, and which will likely lead to us in Serbia really not having unemployment anymore, that we will not have low wages for the simple reason that we will have a situation as soon as possible that we will lose our workers in many activities. It is now, for example, already happening in areas where you have professional labour, such as medicine, such as again some kinds of workers in branches that are currently having strong growth rates, e.g. like construction. With current changes in legislation, e.g. In Germany, it will come to the conclusion that we will soon have great problems. Even some strategies against which we are deep in the movement of the center, e.g. The strategy of attracting subsidies will not make sense because there will be no more cheap labour that will be able to work. This is already happening in some parts of Serbia. And many other strategies will be our dead letter on paper because we won't have people. My question for the government of the Republic of Serbia is what we can do, that is, how we recognize the key reasons for eviction, we cannot influence materially, but for some other reasons we can influence, and that is part of what the government should do, to find out where we will have a labour deficit, it will happen, and how it reacts to that. Let's simply see how we will have a strategy of reacting to the development of events that will inevitably happen in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45628	Thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45629	The first question was referred to you as Parliament's president. The last day in public is the news that parliament ordered tons and tons of certain specific food products, tons of cheeses that cost 30, 40 euros a kilo, mah by Italian production, almond milk, I thought it was used in cosmetics and not in nutrition. I don't use congregation restaurant services and, as I recall, the Assembly doesn't order it itself, but it goes through joint services, but I think it's important that the Serbian public gets the information because this is how it's going to turn out that colleagues and MPs ate all of that, which is not true. So my question is, for what purposes is this being obtained, what are these quantities, what is the budget planned for it? You can find out as president and let us know. Why do Italian cheeses, goat, sheep, and I don't know what all the origins are, when we have pyrotically cheese, so we have haystacks, so we have purpose, and what's all this all about? Why didn't Parliament's competent services inform the public that it had nothing to do with this body, but that it was ordered by someone else for other purposes? The second question was addressed to the defence minister. He flew to Kazakhstan on Monday and returned from Kazakhstan yesterday from Aleksandar Vukic. A plane flying both in departure and in return to Serbia's territory was escorted by two aircraft of the military air force. I think it's the MiGs. My question to the Minister of Defense is – why did this happen? Was Alexander Vukic at risk on that flight, so those two planes had the job of providing him, was it part of some war air drill, or was it an internal advanced circus that was supposed to become a rule? I think it's very important that we find out because there were some journalists on the plane, so let's say the journalists of the State Agency of TENJUG who were filming that scene, the follow-up, the wedding, I don't know what kind of flight was protected, and then they were ordered to delete it. One portal published it, so within five minutes, he had to take it off his site. I'm interested in why it happened, first of all, why there was this escort at all. Two, why is that a secret? If it's a secret, then why could some people record it and publish it, and then it was taken off the air afterwards? The third question was addressed to the interior minister. He said yesterday, the day before yesterday that he still had no information about Oliver Ivanovic's murder. That murder happened early in the year, there was plenty of time for any possible legal information to come up. He said he didn't have any information about it. Alexander Vukic said on 17 March this year that in two weeks, the public will be informed of the details of the crime and that many will be surprised by the facts. From this statement, I conclude that Aleksandar Vukic has been informed of the information on the subject, since he knows even that the public will be surprised. I ask the Minister of the Interior – is Alexander Vukic, as someone who knows about the murder much, in his own words, invited to a hearing or to talk to citizens? Have the authorities come up with any information on the subject? Why has this information been hiding for so long? Is this part of the Brussels Agreement, what they're hiding, or is it part of the coalition with Hashim Thaci, with which Alexander Vukic and his parties are in the coalition? I think not only the family, not just friends, but the whole Serbian public, and not only the Serbian public, deserves to know who's covering up the facts about Oliver Ivanovic's murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45630	Thank you. I'll answer your first question. I couldn't wait for anyone to even ask me about it, so I expected them to be journalists, but thank you for asking the question. Indeed, an inappropriately offensive campaign against the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and against all MPs has been under way for the past few days. I expected all of us to react to this together because every little child when they read what is written about us, and can read a sentence saying that public procurement runs the joint services of the Republic of Serbia and that the Assembly has no knowledge or any touch points with that particular supply, I don't even know if it's real. I have doubts as to who initiated this whole stunt to parliament, but it's no problem, when they come to parliament, we'll talk about it too, that person I think I know very well who he is. I don't know why no one reacted. Now, I have to agree with you that the information service of the parliament that exists to react or some other authority should have denied this hack. This morning I watched another inappropriate contribution where citizens were surveyed on the streets as if it were both de facto and de jure a confirmed thing. We don't do anything else here, we sit here, we eat and boast. Indeed, such a hickey led to the Serbian Parliament is absolutely inappropriate and does not correspond to the real state of affairs. This is where MPs come, work, debate, adopt legislative proposals, and do not sit or eat, especially do not make purchases, at least some who have never entered parliament, nor do we host guests here in parliament. Therefore, this is a staged thing, and let it be honor to the one who went into the hunt to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to the MPs, whoever we are here, 250 MPs have not been elected or come to eat. Those who lead the hajka on us will come and eat all that it says that we have ordered and that we eat and boast. Go ahead, here, we'll all pay for those lunches together, those who think the parliament is like that, feel free to come and use those moldy cheeses. I thought I'd keep quiet and we're still dealing with politics, not nonsense, but when I saw this morning's contribution to one of the TVs with a national frequency where they say they've contacted us, but we're not exactly gonna answer, I guess we're having breakfast, we're eating these crazy cheeses and drinking those milks, or we're milking them, as you said, we're using it for cosmetic purposes, and then I begged God to ask you to ask that question. It's really enough with that kind of attitude towards parliament in the media and not to write about us what we do, but to keep some nonsense, they invent some kind of affairs that don't exist. Thank you again. I'm not in charge of this other thing. They'll answer the people you've sent it to. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45631	Thank you. I have a few questions, also not big and very concrete, and I expect, as so far, mostly orderly answers. The government brought in Oluka yesterday on the abolition of the visa-free regime with the Islamic Republic of Iran. We have been informed of this from the media, and a year ago, less than 14 months ago, 22 August 2017, the Government of the Republic of Serbia lifted visas, i.e. a decision to lift visas with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Unlike some other visa-free regime agreements that have passed here in the Assembly, ratified here in the Assembly, for example with China recently, or with the Kyrgyz Republic, this is, therefore, done at government level, and not through confirmation of the agreement in the Assembly. The government has this right, i.e. a foundation and a foothold in the law, but it is interesting that such an important decision did not go through parliament, perhaps in order not to draw attention. What's my question, of course, is the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of the Interior, because they're connected, in this matter their jurisdiction is one piece intertwined and overlapped. So, I'm asking the foreign and internal affairs departments -- based on which analysis has been taken of the Decision, and the evaluation and research, have taken the decision to abolish the visa regime with Iran, and on what basis has the decision now been withdrawn in a little, just over a year? Does this decision to abolish the visa-free regime, i.e. the introduction and order of visas for Iranian citizens, have anything to do with this, we're talking about planes and tourists from Iran who come massively to Belgrade, but these planes are coming back empty because they're not coming back, they're going on or they're staying here looking for visas? Is it because of this flood of tourists, in quotes, from Iran, and in fact migrants and those wanted by visas and asylum, asylum seekers, on the basis of this possibility that Serbia could be the only country in Europe that could come without visas, or is it, in fact, pressures from some Western countries, and this has been talked about, and is that what the pressure from the West has led to this abolition of the Decision on visa waiver for citizens of Iran? In any case, whatever it is, it shows that this decision has been made to a shortcut, in haste, with little thought and judgment and that it may not be bad for such things to pass this congregation debate, or debate on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where there are little arguments about and against. My second question goes to the address of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and concerns, in my opinion, unacceptable statements, not only of the statement, but also of the NATO Secretary General Pact, Jens Stoltenberg, the Faculty of Philology, so, one educational institution. And, I ask, first of all, did the Ministry of Education - have they been informed as the Ministry of the visit? So, did they know about that visit? Did they approve it? I guess the Foreign Office did know. So, was there any reaction, did the Foreign Ministry consider that there is a basis for some reaction to unacceptable statements that Secretary General Stoltenberg made to the students at that time, including that he knows that in Serbia they have bad memories of the bombing, but we have done this, quote, in order to protect civilians and stop Milosevic's regime? He also later said that their scientific research confirms that there is no harmful fact of the impoverished uranium and that it is all just a farce that is raised in public. Well, I'm asking -- why did this Assembly ever form a commission, also very recently, almost unanimously formed a Commission to determine the consequences of Serbia's bombing or parts of Serbia's territory with uranium, if the secretary general says there is no basis and that the poor uranium is not harmful? So two are things, two are short of this question. Has anyone assessed that it is appropriate that the Secretary-General of the Alliance, independent of his background, his presence in Serbia as a child, regardless of what he knows about the song "Ringe, ringe, paradise" and other children who, as a child of a diplomat, sang here in Belgrade, but he is now a function, I am not talking about a man who can be nice as a politician, so has anyone assessed that it is not quite appropriate to host the higher school institution of NATO's Secretary-General Pact, not specifically Mr. Stoltenberg? Were there any reactions, our official reactions to these statements he made. Anyway, I expect an answer from these two ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45632	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word is Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go, Dr. Jelenkovic. Sign up again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45633	Thank you, Chairman. I ask the question of the Minister without portfolio in charge of regional development and the work of public enterprises. A support programme implementing the measures of a balanced regional development of the Republic of Serbia envisions the state's participation in an economic-financial incentive to establish new cooperatives, as well as investment projects already in place. It is thought of Nisavski, Toplički, Pirotski, Jablanski, Zaječarski and Pcinski administrative district. Since the Ministry's site shows that the specified amounts are in the old and new cooperatives' dinars, does the ministry have feedback on how, when and how the funds were spent? If there are reports, would you please forward the above-mentioned administrative districts to the MPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45634	Thank you, Dr. Jelenkovic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45635	Thank you. I ask the question of the interior minister and the competent prosecutor's office, whether any official actions have been taken in the past ten days regarding the shameful text published on the social networks about the Serbian prime minister, Ana Brnabic, chairing the Gilas Alliance for the Robbery of Serbia and the president of Serbia's joint union Slog, Zeljko Vesenovic. A single status was enough to show us that those who publicly invite the military and police to cancel obedience and who publicly threaten the Romanian script in Serbia see the same Serbia in which they would be the government, Serbia in which political opponents would be punished by rape, which would be directly transmitted through national television. What if this is not a serious threat not only to Prime Minister Ani Brnabic but also to all citizens of Serbia who do not think the same as Zeljko Vesenovic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic or Bosko Obradovic. What's hate speech if it's not a threat to closing in four walls, without a key with one gifted African-American just released from prison. Should I specifically point out that everything written in the text is not only vulgar and dirty but it is also open discrimination and racism and not to mention all the abominations brought to the expense of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic as to how to call the writing of African-Americans that Željko Vesenović represents as bloodthirsty, wild beasts raped by women, unless I clean up racism. For all of this, I would like to know whether the Ministry of the Interior and the D.A. took any action, since the fact that Zeljko Veselinovic deleted the text from his order does not mean that the same was indeed the fruit of Vasiljevic's hasty, inconclusiveness, and that it does not paint his firm determination that there or some other disgusting thing already, as far as it takes place tomorrow in the event of coming to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45636	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. The word has a People's Messenger, Mr Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45637	A question for the interior minister, minister of education, minister of economy and minister of agriculture -- what concrete measures are you planning to do for the security of Serbs in Orahovac and Velika Hoca, and how do you intend to economically strengthen Serbian citizens from Metohija and help them survive in these centuries-old Serb areas? Mr. Stefanovic, do you intend to protect the citizens of Serbia in Velika Hoca and Orahovac, who currently have about 800 and who face attacks, threats and disturbances on a daily basis by Albanian broke youth, who comes to the center of Orahovac and threatens unprotected Serbian children playing at the only children's playground in the city? Also, there were frequent robberies of the remaining Serbs' assets. Last week, Serbian 20-year-old Nikola Matic, who stepped up to defend his brother and other children, was automatically arrested for this act, and the Serbian public was not notified at all through RTS and other media with a national frequency. Why keep quiet about this? Incidents with young Albanian nationalities in Novi Sad, which none of us justify, are raised to the highest level and there is not one high-ranking official from Vojvodina who has not heard from this incident, and President Aleksandar Vukic himself has finally called. Otherwise, 3,000 Serbs lived in Orahovac before NATO aggression in 1999, in the villages of the Orahovac municipality, 2,000 more people. Today in Orahovc, compressed around the Church of the Success of the Mother in Velika Hoca, lives only 800 Serbs. The rest of the villages are heartbroken - Retimlje, Bratunac, Ratkovac and Omnaš. Orahovac is the only town in Metohija that was attacked in May, June, 1998, when 42 people were kidnapped and killed. Thanks to co-ordinated actions by the army and police, Orahovac was released and for this the greatest merits belong to the then commander of the Prizren Corps, General Bozidar Delic and Police Lieutenant Veljak Radenovic, who, unfortunately, retired in 2012 and buried without any state honours. Mr. Stefanovic, do you intend to repay this hero of plenty, about whom the children of the Oracan and the song sang or at least propose to raise the monument or give the street after him, financially help his family, as well as all other members of the Serbian police who gave their lives to defend the sovereignty and statehood of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Sarčević, you visited Orahovac on January 26th, promised to renovate the school, help with computer equipment and maintain a humanitarian evening to help these people. Unfortunately, to this day your promises have not been fulfilled and I here in front of the Serbian public ask the question when will you do so? Also, the problem of 40 elementary school students in Orahovac, as well as 49 elementary school students in Velika Hoca and the equipment of the kindergarten “Our joy”, in which there are 44 minors from three to three and a half years old. These people, Mr. Sarcevic, expect emergency assistance from the Ministry of Education from all of these problems. Question for Minister of Business Goran Knezevic and Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic - do your ministries have any plan or project to offer businesses from Orahovac and Velika Hoce? Do you intend to economically help the remaining Serbs living in Metohija in any way and enable them to subsidise to start a private business, especially in the area of agriculture, instead of financing foreign companies from the Serbian government's budget. The biggest problem for our people living in Orahovac and Big Hotchi is unemployment. Young people would stay living in those areas if they had jobs and stable sources of income. Why don't the state institutions help hire young boys, young fathers, who could be guards of schools, terrain and thus survive in those areas. It is necessary that young couples are provided with jobs, for just these days a young couple with four children left the Orahovac because they had no chance of getting to work and income for their family. Here are your competitive proposals, fellow ministers, to resolve them and prove that you care about Serbs living in Metohija south of Ibra. A question for the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic - please answer us as far as it has come with a proposal for a bilateral memorandum that I should deliver to the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation, which would define our proposal for a solution to the problem of extending working time, i.e. working visas for a year to our citizens working on the territory of the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, it was written five months ago. Two MIP memos have also been sent to address the problems of our workers in Russia. We expect an answer from these competent ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45638	Thank you, Mr. Bones. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45639	Thank you. First question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. In the municipality of Žitište, a commission is being held in Banatski Karadjordjevo. That commission, that project was aided by the German GIZ. It's a couple of pilot projects, and now in Banat Karadjordjev the next thing. Through this process of cohesion, which, of course, the pair know nothing about, but listen to municipal leaders telling them that everything will be fine, they practically move from quality land to unquality land so that a small group of people belonging to the ruling majority there take for themselves large plots of land. It is a village that was won by a volunteer country after the First World War, where the participants of these wars, the First World War for the Liberation of Serbia and the whole Balkans, were given the king the country as a credit for their engagement in the First World War and especially for the breach of the Thessaloniki Front. The question for the minister is does he know what's going on in Banat Karajordev? Is he aware that the peasants there are being kidnapped by the country, that a small group using a compass of compasses, is trying to push them into an unquality country and keep to themselves the highest quality land there. This is very important, especially for 100 years of the Thessaloniki front breach. There are other villages in Vojvodina, but also in all of Serbia where similar things are being carried out. The pyrot is also one place. We haven't marked a breach of the Thessaloniki Front that took place 100 years ago, and I've already asked that question, and now these volunteers are being kidnapped by a volunteer country. I ask the Minister of Agriculture to answer this question urgently and, if he is not familiar with this problem, to go to Banatska Karajordjeva and see what's going on there. I was there 10 days ago. We've spoken to over 150 locals, local couples, who are participating in this process. People are scared. They want to get information that they won't be robbed, that their property won't be taken. The second question goes to the Minister of the Interior. About a half-year ago, we received information from the official authorities that the state of Serbia has given an application, i.e. provided an asylum application for over 620,000 migrants. After that, they stopped giving information about it. What's interesting about all this, migrants first come to the EU, it's Greece, they don't give them an asylum application, so they go through Bulgaria, which is also the EU, or via Macedonia, to come to Serbia and only in Serbia enables them to submit an asylum application. This is completely illogical for a country like Serbia to carry such a burden. Probably citizens don't know, but if the application of migrants, who usually go to Germany, that's a typical path, are returned, will be returned to the country in which they applied for asylum, which is Serbia. We are interested in how many of these migrants are now, where the state of Serbia, or the Ministry, has stopped giving that information, so I have to address the minister this way, how many asylum applications have been submitted so far? We know that the smaller number is approved. It's thousands, but the number he's filed is over 620 grand. Is this part of the deal between the government and the government of Germany, or Merkel, and what is the background of that whole deal? This is a very important issue for Serbian citizens. Of course, migrants need help, but it is completely illogical to come and go through the EU and to first Serbia to be a country in which asylum applications can be submitted. Then, a question for the finance minister, boasted here in the Assembly that unemployment was falling, talked about various percentages -- does the finance minister know how many Serbian citizens are moving out of Serbia annually and does he know that Serbia is the only country where the government boasts about the drop in unemployment and that there is also a drop in employment, i.e. maintaining employment at the same level? This is a worldwide example that both numbers are going down. Is it possible that the fall in unemployment is directly related to the eviction of our people from Serbia? From Serbia, they are moving from all over the Balkans from Kosovo. Citizens probably don't know there's less than 700,000 people out there. So does the minister know that he actually boasts that our children are getting out of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45640	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45641	Thank you, Vice President. The issue is aimed at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Minister Branko Ruzic, and concerns elections for national councils of national minorities and campaigns currently under way and we fear the numerous manipulations that the whole process is under way. When we discussed in this Assembly a few months ago the laws concerning the rights of national communities living in the Republic of Serbia, including the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, we of the DS warned that the laws were conceived and proposed so as to continue to allow for a terrible domination of political parties on minority self-government, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is, in fact, established by the Law of National Councils of National Minorities and that, as a matter of fact, we will come into the situation that national councils are actually only expositories of parties, political parties although their concept is essentially, in theory, entirely, the opposite. What followed, however, we couldn't predict even our worst ideas. In fact, it happens that in certain national minorities, hundreds appear, thousands of people who are organised into special voter lists, who overnight become members of these national minorities, and on their own enlistment in a special voter list come by organized transport and without any clear awareness or knowledge of what they are doing here, what lists are being entered and why they do so. The question for the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is, how will it establish mechanisms to prevent such abuses? Right away, we do not accept the answer that yesterday tried to give one of the ministers to a working group that was responded to by a sad number of members of the ruling coalition who had just been destined for elections for the national councils of national minorities. She told us that the state can practically stop anyone from pleading as a member of some national minority, to sign up on the list, which is absolutely correct. So my question is not how does the state plan to prevent someone from signing up, to plead as a member of a national minority, my question is how does the state plan to prevent abuses by SNS and other parties making up the ruling coalition, citizens who apparently belong to the majority people, organisedly enlist in special voter lists for national councils of the national minorities in order to make those citizens, who, overnight, become members of those national minorities, vote for the lists supported by the SNS and then immediately sign out of the special vote list? So let the minister pay attention to the question in which way the state intends to prevent organised enrollment of citizens in special voter lists? The second issue also relates to the process, Minister Ruzic was also referred to as a sign-over and to the application of the list for participation in these elections. Is it known to the minister that certain lists that are not close to the parties that make up the ruling coalition were almost impossible to reach the verifyers, to the premises, to have local self-governments tripped them at every step of the way and how they intend to resolve the issue and how they will treat the complaints that are coming? It is obvious that this is happening in all minority communities, except for the two largest, and it is obvious that there was one agreement that in these two minority communities elections run so that once again the parties in power are dominant in national councils, while in other SNS is trying to reach the majority in national councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45642	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go, colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45643	Thank you, Chairman. I'll ask you two questions. The first question I'm sorry to ask here, and I'm wasting valuable time on everyone, because that's the question I was at yesterday during a regular session from Mr. Trivan, I could get an answer. It was a matter of dumps in Vranjska Banja. Since the topic was ecology, I was talking about the dump, it's this here, a large amount of waste and garbage that's literally on the coast of the Morava River. Yesterday, they praised the president of the municipality for investing a lot in environmental science, and my question was simple – why not do something about this dump, because it was absolutely not true that there was anything to be invested in environmental science in Vranjska Banja. My question for ministers, given that the president of the municipality is not very interested – in what way and how will he suggest to the local self-government that he finally finds a solution to this dump? I ask my president, he says there's no money in the budget. Then the second question I want to ask the Minister of Culture, Mr Vladan Vukosavljevic, and ask him how much can a book like this cost? It is a book that should represent 150 years of organised tourism in Vrnjačka Banja, 150 years in which many presidents of municipalities and various learned and important people contributed to Vrnjačka Banja after 150 years as she is today. It was important for the president of the municipality to place his picture at the beginning of that book, as if he had made Vranjska Banja, and dear colleagues, believe it or not, that's my question for Minister Vukosavljevic, is it realistic that 750 pieces of this book, what is the circulation, costs five million dinars?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45644	Thank you, colleague Vujic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45645	In February of this year, before that twice last year, a delegation of Iran visited Serbia at the highest level and was accepted in Serbia at the highest level by the president of the state, through MPs, to members of the government, the Deputy Prime Minister, above all. The Serbian-Iranian Forum on Investments, Tourism and Exports was then held. Then they raced from the president of the state to the Deputy Prime Minister, all in the media, how economic, political and other co-operation would develop with the Republic of Iran. In August 2017, visas for entry into Serbia were lifted for citizens of Iran. Without any announcement, on the contrary, three or four days ago, the decision was abolished on October 8th of this year and the citizens of Iran cannot enter Serbia without visas again. In March of this year, Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic said that when something whispered about lifting visas for Iranian citizens, he said it would be a disaster, that this would be very terrible for our country's economy, for the development of our mutual relations, if it were for the citizens of Iran to abolish visas. Now, what pain has made the government do this, that's what we want to ask the president of the state, the Prime Minister, Ljajic Vice President and Vice President and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic? Some story that appeared in the media that it was allegedly done because of some uncontrolled entry of migrants, a citizen of Iran, into Serbia is something that we in the SRS don't believe and we also ask what the number of migrants from Iran who have compromised good relations between Serbia and Iran? You know, if you cut someone's visas, you're jeopardizing good relations. What number is that? Is that five, 50, 500, 5000? In addition, even here in the National Assembly of one committee, the MP said she was looking forward to the migrant law, that migrants should be moved into uninhabited places in Serbia. She still said it would be good for Serbia because of our low birth rate. So, what's the real problem, which is why the government abolished the decision to lift visas for Iranian citizens? Iran, we recall, is a friendly state of Serbia, a state that, by not recognising the false state of Kosovo, actually protects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and the visas are, in fact, abolished and the public needs to know, because the European Council in its report stated that Serbia should refrain from turning away from the common visa policy, and that a new practice of agreeing with third countries is causing concern. So in this way, our state summit recognises that we are in a vassal relationship with the EU. What do we care what the EU thinks about the conclusion of an agreement that we conclude as a country on an international new one? Well, Iran is our friend, and the EU is our enemy. The European Union is kidnapping KIM, the EU is helping terrorists at KIM who do not give peace to Serbs to live there, who attack every day, etc. All of this is done under the auspices of the EU. And we will now listen to the EU and one friendly country, which has excellent relations with the Russian Federation, we will now say – well, your citizens can't come to Serbia without visas anymore, because they don't give us moms and dads from the EU. Indeed, there is a lot of this unspeakable relationship between the hypocritical policy led by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state and we insist that we get an answer to that question -- as long as with this hypocritical policy, as long as the eye blurring and our friends, while playing with the patience of our international friends, are satisfied with the enemies of Serbia sitting in the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45646	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45647	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, today I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Health, Mr Loncar. The question concerns the field of labor medicine. The Ministry of Health has formed a Republic Expert Commission for the Making of a Strategy of Medicine, starting with the need to treat and protect the health of a working-age population, which in every society, including ours, creates all the values and material goods necessary for the life and progress of the state and society. To create, the working population must be healthy. In that sense, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Health - is it also planned when the adoption of the medicine strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the next period, which was formed by the Republic Expert Commission for Labour Medicine, which was formed by the Ministry of Health? Let me explain. The health of the working-active population deals with a special branch of medicine, which is medicine work. It is a multidisciplinary branch of medicine, which deals, first of all, with the prevention of disease and the preservation of the health of a working-active population, and we know that a single dinar invested in prevention is the same thing as sixteen dinars in curatives. It also deals with risk assessment at the workplace, recognises hazards and harmfulness in the working environment and the working environment, which can endanger the health of workers, the prevention of occupational diseases and diseases related to work and work-related injuries, as well as the assessment of working ability. Medical work has seen significant changes since 2010. Earlier, larger businesses had their so-called factories, and smaller businesses had one joint clinic. In these hospitals, medical specialists were in daily contact with workers, followed their health, and recognized the dangers and harmfulities at the source itself, thus preventing the health of workers from being damaged by preventive measures. Today, health at work comes down to previous, periodic checks of workers working at jobs with increased risk. A large number of employers are engaged in the periodical examinations by the medical services selected in the tender, so it is mostly that each year the second service is the provider of services. This loses continuity in the assessment of health and health monitoring. The result of this work is very often inadequate health care and more importantly, there is no continuity in monitoring the health status of employees, as well as the comparison of health conditions with the previous review. For example, if a person’s hearing is damaged on a periodic basis, we do not have an insight into his prevention chart to compare the condition of the hearing and whether the damage occurred due to noise in the workplace, or whether that hearing damage existed before entering the workplace. Our country had one of the best and most functional health care systems in the world, which at the time took over and applied many countries, developing on our model their medical work system. One of the countries that copied this system is Finland, which is now an example of good practice in the world. At the moment in Serbia, a large number of specialists in medicine work pleads for the selected physician out of fear for his existence, as the RFZO does not recognize the specialists in the medical work in its personnel plan. I'm afraid we're going to enter the vacuum, because the average age of medical specialists is over 50 years and this medical staff is becoming disabled. The EU's recommendations, which we are seeking, are that five thousand workers are receiving a specialist in medicine work. International working organisations in their instruments particularly highlight the importance and place of medical work and must not allow the preventive work of medical practitioners to be left to the market without public concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45648	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45649	Dear Vice-President, I ask the question of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia – will the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia initiate proceedings against the anti-state action of Vuk Jeremic? Explanation. NATO's failed powder candidate, Vuk Jeremic, has been working against his country for years. First, Jeremic was already pushing ahead of Serbian diplomacy in 2007 to move the KIM talks from UN jurisdiction to the EU's authority, thereby causing invaluable damage to the state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, in 2008, Jeremic duped the Serbian public, Mission Eulex, in KIM, past the decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thereby causing invaluable damage to the state of Serbia. Third, when the so-called so-called illegality was declared in 2008. KIM's unilateral independence, Jeremic and his diplomacy did not knowingly take any effective action against the unilateral declaration of independence of KIM, and thus brought unconceived consequences on the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. Fourthly, Jeremic said in a conversation with US Congressman Ted Dolo in December 2008 that the entry of KIM into the UN is the best that Serbia can hope for if it is lucky. It's a finished quote. It has also caused inconceivable consequences for its country's state and national interests. The honourable MPs, Vuk Jeremic, thinks so today, when the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, takes a courageous and decisive step towards finding a lasting, sustainable and compromise solution for KIM. Peto, Jeremic deliberately asked the International Court of Justice an unnecessary question in 2008 about the legality of the KIM unilateral declaration and thus stabbed the Republic of Serbia in the back. 6th, Vuk Jeremic, at a closed session of the North Atlantic Council in Brussels, said he advocated, quote, for Serbia's full membership in NATO, a quote, and thus inflicted great damage to the state of Serbia. Seven, Jeremic, in the authorial text of "Washington Post", most brutally insulted the state of Serbia and its president in front of his very important Serbia meeting with US Vice President Michael Pensa in 17.07.2017, undermining the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. Eighth, Jeremic in the authorial text and "Parisko Mondu" in July 2018, prior to the meeting of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic with President of France, accused the state of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic of spreading the stability, i.e. dictatorships in the Balkans, causing huge damage to the Republic of Serbia. Nine, Jeremic is a member of an international gang of thieves and frauds, in which his two best friends Patrick Ho, Interior Minister Hong Kong and Sheikh Tidian Gadio, are arrested in the United States for bribery and money laundering. Patrik Ho has visited Jeremic's Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development several times and is one of the main finances of Vuk Jeremic. Jeremic made a four-billion-dollar investment deal with the Mexican... oil sources at a time when Mexican laws banned it. Tenthly, Vuk Jeremic was alienating money from the Republika Srpska budget in an illegal manner. In 2011, the state audit institution referred to the "Aerosport" affair in which the foreign ministry paid 42m dinars, based on an unsigned invoice and without public procurement, by buying airline tickets to Vuk Jeremic. Dear citizens, for 2010, the foreign ministry paid 33m dinars for flights to Vuk Jeremic. The owner of the "Aerosport" is a close relative to the wife of Vuk Jeremic. Dear citizens, Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the former wolf, Sasa Jankovic, known as the Praengi Hall, Boris Tadic, called Lipicaner, Dragan Djilas, known as the jiki mafia, Dusan Petrovic, called the dule cow-killers and other members of the alliance for the second destruction of Serbia, was the first to be reunited during the DOS, which I hope will not return to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45650	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. We're moving on with our work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dusko Tarbuk, Stefana Miladanovic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that for the purpose of the search in detail of the item 1st agenda, the draft Law on Changes and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, are invited to attend and there are, present, Mr Goran Trivan, Minister of Environment Protection, Slobodan Perović, Biljana Filipović Đušić, Jasmina Jović, acting as Assistant Minister of Environment Protection, Mr Andrej Bojic, head of the Office of the Minister of Environment Protection, Branislav Atanaskovic, acting as Secretary of the Ministry of Environment Protection, Darinka Radojević, Dusan Ognjanović, Aleksandra Posilić and Olivera Topalov, Head of the Department of the Department of the Ministry of Environment Protection, Nikola Maravic, Head of the Department of the Department of the Ministry of Environment, Marija Raičević, adviser in the Office of Environment. We're moving on with the amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go, Dr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45651	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, in order to further define Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which is amended in Article 90b, is added: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to strengthening environmental protection." One of the big problems we face today is the concern of environmental and environmental issues. Many climate change, as well as most natural disasters, are the result of man's negative impact on nature and thus the environment. We need to understand the importance of the conservation of ecosystems and the environment, changing our everyday habits, and that is achieved only by strengthening the awareness of our citizens. Environmental protection and all procedures that go with it are planned from the budget, and we must do so not because of what the EU expects of us, but because it is what our citizens expect of us. The environmental protection measures will contribute to the faster development of our agriculture, with all its related branches, but they will also raise the level of environmental protection, which is essential for the health of our people. The IPARD 2 Fund provides significant funds for investment, as a form of pre-accession aid for rural development, which under this law must meet the prescribed conditions of environmental protection, and therefore also adopts an act and fulfils the conditions. Uncontrollable investments are a problem in general for society and for the whole country, so they have to be strictly controlled. They must meet the conditions in order to protect our natural wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45652	Thank you, fellow Grandmother. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45653	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, apart from environmental pollution, there is a moral and spiritual pollution of the environment, which is even worse, and what we can see in the performance of those who make the most serious accusations here and then move on, so they don't hear counterarguments. Serbia is a country rich in natural resources, with fertile land and in 2012 we found poor and hungry people. That's unforgivable. But the development of agriculture has its price. Many think that agriculture only has a positive impact on the environment. It is, by many estimates, the second, after industry, an environmental pollutant. With regard to IPARD funds, environmental protection has a proper role to play, because we need to make strong agriculture, with as little impact as possible and as little environmental pollution as possible. Hence, two ministries need to co-operate, not only on IPARD funds, but on agriculture and excessive use of mineral fertilisers and pesticides. That is why many laugh at bats, not knowing that they are the ones that reduce pesticide emissions, or use them. Only 15% of the pesticides we use in agriculture go directly to the plant, everything else goes into the atmosphere. The bats catch insects at night and contribute to healthier food and the environment. I can't stand the ridicule of my opposition colleagues, and it's about the yellow kind, I can't understand that mockery, because it's a mockery of a healthy life, of a healthy food, and may God forgive them. Agriculture also affects nitrogen, so it is necessary to reduce the amount of nitrogen fertilisers. Many do not know that even irrigation, if it is not done carefully, damages the environment, comes to salty land, degradation of various species, saltiness, etc., so that the vast areas of agricultural land disappear annually, and we that have found ourselves on this planet, and on IPARD and at all agriculture, we must make sure that when we leave the country at least in the same, if not in a better state than the one in which we found it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45654	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45655	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I have given another amendment to Article 2, and it is my interest that we work as much in small areas, in small areas, and in the environment, and in the economy, and in agriculture. In particular, since I come from Srlig, I represent that part of those small municipalities that have the capacity. We have a healthy environment, but we need to invest there, increase capacity. I'd like to say a few things, and I've said that before, about collectors, that we should do in these small municipalities, for wastewater, which is very important because a large number of our small municipalities, and even larger cities have water pipes that have asbestos pipes. In that part, we need to work more, to provide resources and opportunities in these small municipalities, in cities where there are still asbestos pipes, to change these asbestos pipes, to change these water lines and to make it the best way, so that these people can drink healthy water. By the way, the source I'm coming from, I think the water line is done, the asbestos pipes have been changed, but there's little left. There are these asbestos pipes in both Nis and other municipalities, and there are these asbestos pipes in our local communities. As a representative of the United Peasant Party and of a man living in southeastern Serbia, a man elected from the SNS list, I am interested in the city of Nis and all around the town of Nis and the region of Nisovsky County. Otherwise, the head of the district of Dragana Sotirovska is very active and then I can say for sure that she is now a lighthouse in the area because she is very interested in the environment. One question that I wanted to ask you is also about thunderbolts, since we have in the territory of the city of Nis, Aleksinac and in small municipalities another close to 30 lightningheads that are radioactive, so my question is, when are we going to be able to move those thunderbolts to dislocate, to remove the thunderbolts, because it's very harmful to all citizens in Nis and Aleksinac, and other municipalities where there are such thunderbolts? And I'd still like to invite you to tour Nis, find the possibility that these thunderbolts can be removed, because it's one of the more difficult things and the city of Nis and some small local self-governments can't do it and I can't move it, and because there's a certain procedure, a great investment and I think, and I'd like you to come to the city of Nis as soon as possible to find an opportunity together with our head of the district, to find a way to remove those thunderbolts and thus strengthen the capacities and development of the environment and the health of our people, because I think, first of all, health is in the first blue. We have a chance to develop from these small environments through certain activities of all of us, promotions of healthy food, healthy environments. That's what we need to use now. But before that, we've got to figure this out. Solve the water lines, asbestos pipes, move the thunderbolts and normally work on people to get as much information as possible and to know how and what to do. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45656	Thank you, fellow Miletic. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said in my previous report that there are no larger budget allocations for a healthy environment if we do not have a strong economy. A good example of how the Serbian economy is strengthening is the event that is coming to us today in the Kingdom. It is the opening, i.e. the beginning of works on the construction of the new plant "Leoni" in the King. The value of the investment is 60m euros. By the end of the year, the Kingdom should employ 150 people in this factory, and by 2023, 5,000 workers, which will be of paramount importance not only to the city of Kraljevo, but to the whole of Raška administrative district. Otherwise, the production area of “Leoni” factory in Kralje is 45 thousand square meters. What is important to stress is that Leoni already has three factories in Serbia. One is in Nis, the second in Prokuplje, the third in Maloshist, to employ 6,000 Serbian citizens in total and is one of the 15 largest exporters in Serbia. Mr. Minister, two days ago, the Fiscal Council proposed to the government of the Republic of Serbia to increase environmental protection funds in the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget by 130m euros. You will agree, I hope, with me that the request is legitimate but that, on the other hand, it is not possible to achieve it if we do not continue to work on attracting investment if we do not create new jobs and if we do not continue with the overall strengthening of the Serbian economy. That we are on a good path to witness the fact that in 2018 we will end up with a 295m-euro surplus, which definitely says that we are a country that is a European leader and regional leader when it comes to the growth rate, when it comes to the number of foreign and domestic direct investments and the number of new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45658	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's my colleague Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45659	Respected representatives of the government, respected fellow MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment The Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the SNS, regulates another very important area of life in the Republic of Serbia, which is the area of environmental protection. Environmental protection involves a set of different procedures and measures that prevent environmental threats with a view to preserving biological balance. Environmental defense is multidisciplinary and should be a permanent obligation for all members of society. Her multidisciplinaryism stems from the fact that health, environment and social conditions are a complex of areas and problems that are in constant interaction. The concern about the environment is from our society's point of view of priority for society as a whole. A healthy environment is the basis for the preservation of human existence, the healthy development of society and an important factor for the level of life of the population. So, the obligation of all of you, all of us, is to deal with this exactly the way it happens. Once again, the Law on the Protection of the Environment in Article 90b. Article 1 1 provides that the resources of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia are to be allocated to beneficiaries in order to finance the protection and promotion of the environment, and on the basis of a public competition published by the Ministry, but Article 2 of the same Article requires that the funds may be allocated exclusively to the beneficiaries without public competition in the event of the financing of the activities referred to in Article 90b. point 16 of the Law in the case of the financing of intervention measures in exceptional circumstances of environmental pollution, recycling and recovery of polluted space and in accordance with Article 66 of this Act. I think it's very important that we go meet the problem and we already have one of the models to solve it. Proposed amendments and additions to the law in Art. 1. and 2. another exception is proposed from the prescribed public competition obligation to prepare and co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance, in accordance with Article 89(3) and (4).
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45660	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go, colleague Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45661	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, we have been discussing very complex environmental issues here for days. However, it is something that has mostly been implemented in Western European countries. I would briefly return to the problems we have in Serbia, which is that a large number of municipalities in Serbia still do not have a water and sewerage network, unfortunately in the 21st century. Many use septic pits that are not made properly, and they happen to pour out, that they can represent a potential way to create a major epidemic of infection. The land is also polluted. As you know, I come from Voždovec and I would say, I was part of the Vlazdovec government when one city municipality had no sewerage or water network in its part until 2014. As you remember for sure, you were then the city secretary, in 2009 when this coalition came to power on the Voždovac municipality. The Democratic Party was in power in the city of Belgrade, and unfortunately it was more important for them that someone who came here could not do the job, not collect some points, by building the sewer network, but by sort of stopping it, as has been done. With the arrival of the temporary body in 2014, you must remember that in the village of Zuce, a more coastal settlement, a wastewater treatment plant was built and that it was then the first time that Zuce was able to connect to the sewerage network. It was also done in Ripanj. They are connected to the water network, etc. The obelisk part of the Vozdovac, which is beneath Avala, which is otherwise a protected park, has finally received basic conditions for life. So I hope you will try to solve this problem in the rest of Serbia in order to really have some basic conditions before some of the processes that are now happening in the EU. We'd better deal with some basics right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45662	Thank you. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) George Komlenski, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45663	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, progress and new technologies obviously don't always bring about a better one. They don't bring in when some phases need to track progress and new technologies are missing. We've obviously been on this for many years, better said and decades, we haven't taken much care of it, and what is the simplest notice to each of the citizens is a huge amount of plastic packaging and this kind of waste that we can do at every step, if we look a little better to see that it's adequately delayed, or rather completely irresponsiblely thrown. The fact is that what is done with plastic bags in large hypermarkets gives some results, which I can agree that what gives results should not go to the burden of citizens, as one of the colleagues said these days, is already to find the possibility that those who earn profits in fact in sales or in production, when using that type of packaging should bear a clearly defined amount of cash compensation from which they could provide the means to practically secure the collection and recycling of these materials where they are. I don't know if the Ministry was thinking about it, I am, but it doesn't mean that I'm right, that we really need to think seriously about returning glass packaging to use, but those that are being replaced and returning, go back to using and stimulating such a way of packing products, that we don't now declare any product that can be found in plastic packaging specifically, because it would take a long time to make sure that someone doesn't think he's particularly apostrophe, find ways to get tax-stimulation, other kinds of stimulation from any of the funds, those who return to the use of these types of glass-type packaging, I remember as a child that they bought sour milk and milk in glass bottles that were coming back, used until someone physically destroys them, doesn't break them, and I think it was far healthier and simpler and more responsible for nature than what we do today. I know this won't please those who used technology to pack their products as easily as possible and sell, but the right to tell you I want to live in Serbia, I want my children and their descendants to stay living in one healthy environment, and I think this is one way not only of criminal policy, not restrictive, but just by stimulating those who would come back and so to say, conditionally speaking, healthy species, what does not pollute the environment, packaging and use stimulate the state in every way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45664	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45665	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the most important issues of taking care of the environment. We are actively dealing with this issue and only as a comment that I agree with it and the world is already on the strategy that has decided that it will definitely reduce the use of plastic for all possible purposes. Glass packaging is what it's all about and goes to, Europe and the world are going to it without any dilemma. We'll go to it. We're dealing with thinking about it, and as a courtesy, we can say that thousands of tons at this point of time of plastic packaging floats the oceans, and that one of these islands practically exists in the ocean, and it's just thinking about how to clean it up, and in fact it's a busy course, yeah, that's gonna be done, but it's gonna have to solve the problem where it's going, and that's that the question is open whether plastic packaging today and in the future and in the world has a perspective or there's no perspective to certain research of different scientists, which says that every fifth packaging or almost every fifth packaging in each material that's in it, so every liquid leaves those tiny nanoparticles of plastics, and so you have data that almost every other fish in the ocean has plastics. The prize question is, or maybe it's not – are we aware of how many plastics are in us? The Ministry's in on it, and you'll see what it will bring us next year. This bag thing was a pilot, so let's see how the public reacts to it. The public responds well to this and we will take other measures and we will change the legal framework in the direction in which it will be seen. It'll be right here in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45666	Thank you. Comrade Yokic, your group of MPs is out of time. So time only has the head of the Parliament Club, you know. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and together by Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45667	We have seen and heard these days that the use of IPARD funds implies and meets certain conditions. Unfortunately, in many places and many situations in Serbia, these conditions are not met, and something does not quite seem to be. We mentioned to you ministers, here we go again and maybe explain a little bit of the problem that exists with the sand mob that's connected to the construction mob. It's about exploiting sand and gravel, mostly in the defenseless part of the left bank all three Morava, Sava and Danube. There the sand and the gravel were exploited without any control, without the presence of inspection and without any compensation. This sand mob is connected to construction, because they actually get cheap, or they take free of charge that gravel and sand, and the builders buy it quite definitely under some favourable conditions. What's the problem with that? Environmental problem, undeniable. There's a change in the flow of the river, there's an erosion of the coast, there's a flood as soon as three drops of rain, there's a drop in people's fields, and people don't know what to do. In particular, in Batocina, in Šumadia, you have a situation where people are missing acres of land, and whoever they turn to, they all come down to their belts, like we do to you. So that's a serious problem, maybe it doesn't seem to you or anyone, but it's a serious problem. What's interesting? Against such a dangerous crime, we have no record of this year, only four criminal charges were filed last year. If you're driving, wherever you come along the coast of the river along western Serbia, along the Sava and Danube stream, you see machines there. It's digging, the trucks are driving, everyone's acting like the state of Alibeg's straw. The problem we started yesterday, i.e. the topic refers to Vrnjačka Banja and the problem of polluting Morava in the part of Vrnja Banja. Indeed, a colleague tried to explain yesterday that only she knew what Vronjačka Banja looks like, so she even said that I, who am not from Vranjska Banja, can't talk about Vranjska Banja, but well, she'll learn what the MP is. Unlike her, I've visited every place in Serbia who knows how many times and about everyone I know what to say, because I know what problems are all over Serbia. I guess that's the part of the MP. You know, in such a touristic place to allow a dump that not only threatens Vrnjakska Banja, further to this Morav, it goes to Trstenik, three drops of rain, it's a mess again. So Minister, pay attention to these things. For what I just told you, it doesn't take a lot of money from the state, all it takes is goodwill, field inspectors, no office seats, no application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45668	Thank you. The word has a Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45669	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start at the end, so such places in Serbia, I'm talking about dumps, there's a lot of regret. Wild dumps, if you talk about wild dumps, data differs, but estimates range between 3,500 and 4,500 dumps. I personally think there may be more, depending on what we count by a wild dump. But that's where we all agree, and that's why it's not really a problem for us to agree on that. The problem is how to solve it. Now, a lot of, at least these visible places you're talking about, a lot of these places are looking for a little money, that means a lot of money, and that's the story of local self-government, but the ministry needs more money to solve these issues. Of course, they can get rid of the money, but first we need to get rid of the system that we talked about earlier. I don't want to talk about it. I'm just giving it the right to be an important problem. In this case, when it comes to Vranjska Banja, as well as some other places, essentially without having to burn ourselves with each other, these are actually historic problems that last for decades, and we will do everything we can to help them and local self-government to solve it, because often they cannot solve our own good will and there will be some money to solve it. This first problem that you mentioned, although this seems to be a bigger problem with the dumps, personally, is pressuring the problem with sand and gravel. Personally, I think it's one, so I don't have to say necessarily, the biggest problems, but I think it's a huge problem, that it's a simple devasting of resources, and we don't have the right to do that, and that order has to be introduced once already. I have to repeat for the third time that I wish the waters and forests were in the jurisdiction of environmental science, because then there's the story of resources. It is not allowed and cannot be allowed to do such things on its own, to take away from nature what does not belong to it. Now the question is, if we were to figure out how much of it is actually taken away from nature, if it went into legal flows, you know, then we'd have less problems with the money that we have to invest in anti-erozione facilities, because that money that's being taken from water and these resources, we should go back there to protect ourselves from floods, etc. So the inspections really have to do their job. Part of this story isn't about the environment, but I'm going to seriously now think about it after what we're saying here today, how do we try to find the basis for the environmental inclusion in this story. I'm fully aware of the capital, I'm fully aware of who's doing this job, but as in the case of hazardous waste, it won't impress me, and in this way you've just raised one question that we're going to try with colleagues from other ministries to sort out somehow, and we're going to do our best, because, I say, we treat it as a resource. You're absolutely right, the coast is changing, the bottom changes, and I could do about it now because it's part of my profession, but there's no need for you to say it yourself enough to do it harm. I agree with that, and I'll try to do everything I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45670	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45671	You ministers took over this part of the environmental affairs, let me say, drawn from one ministry, since it was previously within the Ministry of Agriculture. Now, what you're saying, thinking out loud, I'd say, I'll have to see how I can handle it. So don't act like you're an MP for the opposition here. You have to come here with a solution. It's a good thing you accept when we say that something is a problem and you say yes, it is a problem. And, you should see to it that you launch an initiative on whether to join your ministry, whether part of the agriculture ministry to merge within your ministry, whether to determine the parts of the ministry's administration that will deal with it. You know, organizationally it can certainly be done, but it is necessary and urgent to do, that's what it is. You know, the farmer in Batocina who took the water from the 2 ha field to him is irrevocable and the question is, will anyone ever pay him? Hardly, people are tried, they pay court fees, they pay lawyers, they have no one to charge from. So there are some, most of what is actually related to the environment and to the threat of the environment are the consequences of lasting character. That's why it has to react quickly, and that's why you have to tell the government -- people, we need 150 inspectors per Serbia. There are people who are unemployed, let them run away, give them instructions, give them free hands within the law, of course, and act. Four reports, I may have told you too freely that it was the Sand Mafia, because what's going on is the mafia. Four applications in a year's time is playing, so you need to get the people around you and yourself serious and insist on more inspectors to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45672	Right to the replica of Minister Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45673	I have no intention of plowing. I just have one sentence to say, it's not in our jurisdiction right now, and that's why I said everything I said, and I'm going to do my best to try to solve it in ways that the laws are currently allowing. What you're alluding, I'm already talking about, I just don't need to talk about it right now, and I'm still saying that you've raised an important question and that we're going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45674	Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Come on in, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45675	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister with Associates, Chairman, we have, on several occasions and in principle debates and in several proposed amendments, pointed to two disputed places of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The first is that it is not sufficiently stressed that there is no protection of the environment without the protection of our natural resources, so we have repeatedly intervened to include ourselves in the title of the law and certain members, insisting that anyone applying this future IPARD asset received from the EU must protect the environment, which means that it must protect our rivers, our agricultural land, our mining resources, our sources of clean drinking water. So we must enter into the law the obligation to protect our natural and economic wealth. If we don't bring it in, then don't let us complain, complain and complain about when someone abuses our national resources or when, as the minister says, we have a horror with mini-hydrocentrals in Serbia, because there's no legal person here who hasn't done the job, and there's no inspection, and there's no authority to get to that horror. So, Mr. Minister, if you were to publicly state that the mini-lowering horror is without feeling even a little responsibility and doing nothing to change that, that's a big problem. On the other hand, how are these IPARD funds going to be shared? It's also the subject of these amendment interventions and, in general, our notes. Will it be shared as everything is shared in Serbia today, only by members of the SNS? Can anyone else in the public sector who is not a member of the SNS be employed in Serbia? Will this pre-accession funding from the EU receive any farmer who is not a member of the SNS? What rule will you handle, some rule that no one will ever see? So, a very simple thing, you usurped the entire state, turned it into party property, one man decides everything, and only members of the SNS can live and work. So we're against it and we need to talk about it simply, plainly and loudly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45676	Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45677	As Serbian citizens can see, Serbian co-ordinator Dragan Gilas, the To God's Alliance for Serbia, has no political programme, has no economic idea, knows nothing, has not brought into Serbia any single investor, and in coalition with those who have shut down all possible and impossible jobs in Serbia since 2000, which have closed all factories, which have destroyed the economic substance of the Serbian society. Mr. Coordinator tells us today that their only policy – we hate Alexander Vukic, we hate SNS, and we are very fond of those who have systematically worked to destroy the Serbian economy to the ground. Just to remind Mr. Coordinator that he is in the coalition with Dragan Dilas, that he is in coalition with Vuk Jeremic, that he is in coalition with the DS, that he is in coalition with all those who are until yesterday... And Borko, where did Borka forget? ) Yes, thank you, Verice, so Borko Stefanović, etc. So, that in the coalition with all those who did all that was up to them, they were personally enriched, and that Serbia was economically completely devastated. The only thing he can talk about, whenever he hears, is party employment by the SNS, and the only job Mr. Coordinator worked at before he became a MP was that he was a spokesman for the City Library in Čačka "Vladslav Petkovic Dis", and he was brought to the workplace by Velimir Ilic, one of the leaders of the peto-octobaric coup. That's what those who intend to vote for the so-called elections should know. The Alliance for Serbia, that it's an alliance of grandmothers and frogs, an alliance of people who can't do anything but rob, except steal and live on the back of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45678	Thank you. Minister Goran Trivan has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45679	Whether you will protect the environment and whether you will do your job properly depends on what you call the law and what adjective or epithet you have brought into it. I still believe that we all want our environment to be clean and I don't say that demagogue, so I really believe that. But I also understand the needs of MPs that every environmental issue is also involved in the day-to-day policy, which I, here, do not accept again. The story of mini-bodies is a story that I can talk to anyone in this room and out of it for as long as you want. I've made my point publicly about it, and what I'm doing about it, you'll have a chance to see, because it's both difficult and theoretical, and let alone that you're able to know every day how it's going and what I've done about it, and for some things it takes a little time to get an epilogue in front of you. So you're going to have a chance to see that and I'm asking you not to put me in that context of unhappiness, incompetence and everything else. As for the law that's in particular on the agenda, it seems to me that you're making a replacement for thesis all the time. Therefore, IPARD is undoubtedly important for individual producers and those who want to compete with the Ministry of Agriculture. So he'll compete. The competition will be called according to the rules, etc. When it comes to the Environment Fund, therefore, there are precise rules to be made, and the truth is that today, if she adopts the Assembly tomorrow, a rule will come out that sets the rules. That's where we stick to the rules of those who gave those funds. Here you have a competition, with us at the Ministry you also have for the Fund of Competitions and some exceptions mentioned here due to extraordinary circumstances. You, of course, have the right to doubt all that, but time will be the only judge in the whole story and I have no intention of defending myself against what the future will be. The future will be marked by what we do then and we will be subject to any kind of analysis, control of whatever you want. I assure you that this will all be well, despite your right to be skeptical, but again I ask you not to involve us in this day-to-day policy, especially with that first question that you said, because we have already made clear what we think about it. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45680	Mr. Obradovic, Minister in his discussion... (Bosko Obradović: My colleague Martinović mentioned me. ) A colleague named Martinovic listed persons who are not in the O.R. At no point did I understand. I really don't want to question which of the MPs he was getting paid for. (Bosko Obradovic: I am the only coordinator and spokesman of the Chacan library. If you think you are a coordinator, I see that you are only with your MPs, I do not see any other around you, so I cannot give you the right to reply. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Nogo, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45681	We've heard a lot of problems, and here we have today, and as far as environmentalists and colleagues even from the government are concerned, they've brought examples from their places, from their environments. The minister found it, and he himself couldn't tell if it was important or if they were all equally important and big. However, I would not agree here with you with a sentence that you just said in your replica on the presentation of my predecessor, Mr Obradovic, which is that our objections are put in the context of daily politics. If it were in the context of daily policy, it would be good. Here, unfortunately, corruption is something that is permanent and day-to-day politics is passing. So, parties change, individuals change, people change, but a system that enables corruption, which has ruined us and brought us here, this corrupt system, and today, it's going on. You are now still trying to strengthen such a corrupt system through these legal changes to a small door because by exempting from the public competition the allocation of funds if the project besides the Green Fund from the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been co-financed by the European Union or international organisations, you are practically opening up a serious space for malfeasance and abuse. As you yourself noted on Thursday, the biggest challenge in the process of joining the European Union and the most financially demanding will be in the field of ecology. Some 15 billion investment is waiting for us, we don't have that funding, and we're going to be withdrawing funds or loans from the European Union. This gives room for these very funds that will be enormous in a speculative way to come to corrupt actions, either with our tycoons, or with bureaucrats from Brussels, from the European Union, because, I repeat, from donations and loans from 2000, from the government of Zoran Djindjic to today, every donation of 15 to 30% in cash we had to pay back to European Union bureaucrats, every loan for infrastructure they get to carry out, in fact they only transfer money to subcontractors who work, and what they keep is practically some sort of compensation for the credit they have granted. That's how it's going to be with these funds, and that's why this legal solution is bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45682	National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45683	Thank you, Chairman. Here, at the end of the debate on amending the Law on the protection of the environment, it is an opportunity to realize that for Serbian citizens nothing will change. I am pleased that the ruling party's MPs have just admitted that in the 21st century we have not solved the issue of sewage and plumbing, let alone something else, that the problem of plastic bags is resolved on the cost of Serbian citizens, not on the cost of neither the state nor large trade chains. Farmers are hardly going to be able to do something about the Green Fund or the IPARD after the Ministry has prescribed new additional rules, and we know that they will have a hard time getting regressed oil, that the oil excises will remain the same. So, of all this we've been discussing for almost 10 days, the only thing that changes is that the funds will be able to be allocated in an untransparent way, without public competitions. You, therefore, deceive not only your citizens, but also your partners from the European Union, because here I will give concrete examples. If a rule is prescribed from the European Union that the wastewater issue must be resolved by 2030, for example, domestic contaminants admitted by the minister that he cannot control, they realize that they can actually pollute freely by 2030 and that they are not responsible for it. The minister also said in his first address that all ministries must coordinate with his ministry and listen to instructions, but it seems to me that the environment ministry actually serves as a cover for other ministries, because we all know well what abuses are done in the assessment of environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45684	Thank you. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojić submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45685	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. The Proposer proposed to Article 3 an amendment to Article 101 of the basic law by adding a new member of 101. The Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment and we have proposed a solution that we consider more comprehensive. The proposal states that conditions will be created for the creation of a sublaw, a regulation that will be drawn up jointly by the environment minister and the minister responsible for agricultural and rural development tasks. In practice, it has been shown that the drafting of a sublaw is long and that certain matter remains undefined and undefined, which makes up the basis for different incorrect interpretations of the law and incorrect application. In practice, it has been shown that the drafting of a sublaw is long and that certain matter remains undefined and undefined, which makes it the basis for different incorrect interpretations of the law and incorrect application. We of the SRS parliamentary group have tried to give amendments concrete solutions in order to avoid arbitrary interpretations of the law in practice. As the debate on the Amendments and Supplements Act nears the end, since it contains only four members, and we are now discussing amendments to Article 3, it is noticeable that the Proposer did not want to co-operate and accept constructive proposals from the SRS parliamentary group, so that the ruling majority will likely adopt the text that it has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45686	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not sure this government is doing everything in its power and in its jurisdiction when it comes to the environment and its protection. I'm still under the impression that selective approach is still in place when some of our ends are at stake. Namely, I come from Nis, which is the centre of Southeast Serbia, and it seems that in this area the rule – the saddest it is, and southern and southeastern Serbia is one of the most beautiful, and still, fortunately, the most preserved in natural terms, parts of Serbia. The town of Nis has a fantastic and beautiful environment, focusing on several mountain ranges, such as the Drava Mountain, Stara Planina, the Hawk, the Svrljska Mountains, etc. There are also two beautiful ravines, the Jelašnica ravine and the Sitician ravine. There is also an endemic species of "Ramonda Servica" found in the Siscevac ravine by famous and famous botanist Josif Pancic, so I think it takes much more attention to pay attention to this region of southeastern Serbia. Here near Nis and two large artificial lakes, Zavojsko and Vlasin Lake. The lake is not only the largest of our artificial lakes, but as far as altitude is concerned, it is the lake with the highest altitude, just over 1200 meters and one of the highest lakes of its kind in Europe. Now, to take the opportunity to ask the minister why during the summer the water from these two lakes mentioned was released under the maltena below the ecological minimum, and was that necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45688	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Zoran Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45689	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS MPs said in their presentation that the laws cannot be passed solve the problems of Serbian citizens. Serbia does not only have that problem when it comes to the environment. These days we have heard many of the problems Serbia has about the plant and animal world, polluted air, non-sanitary dumps, bats, bears, white-headed soup. Dear fellow Members of the People, I am not diminishing the value of this debate, since the debate, let's say, what we eat and what we produce. How do we protect our agricultural producer? First, it prevents the tycoon import lobby, then adapts the price of agricultural products to the market price of which agricultural producers will benefit. Serbia still has a good environment to produce healthy and quality food. It must be noted that agricultural producers are adequately educated regarding the use of various chemical products, herbicides, pesticides and the like, since they are used uncontrollably where the ministry of reference, together with the agricultural joint forces, would systematically solve these cases. If we act preventively, we will make Serbia healthier in terms of both water and air and food, only then will we have positive results and reduce the number of patients suffering from severe and incurable diseases. The Serbian Radical Party considers and calls for the mandatory prevention of the import of GMO foods that, according to its composition, have an overdose of hormones in modern nutrition that unfortunately cause premature full maturation in children, breast tumors and other organs. That is why the Government and the RES are obliged to rigorously control both phytosanitary and market inspections to prevent the poisoning of citizens, animals and ecosystems.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45690	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45691	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the issue of the environment is of exceptional national importance around which all of our potentials, human resources, scientific, professional, organisational and all others should be collected, because we are ruthlessly destroying our natural resources, and very few are being restored. In some countries, in order to reach one tree, you need five, six permits, and we Shipari are destroying forests along the entire administrative line and continuing where NATO villains have stopped. I must once again point out the disastrous and inconceivable consequences of environmental pollution as a consequence of the criminal NATO bombing of our country. A few days ago, the NATO chief who sang "Ringe, Rings, Paradise" with circumstances said NATO civilians were rescued by Milosevic. Please, and then they shot the hospital in Nis, Dragis Misovic, the Panchevo refinery in Novi Sad and so on. Even though he apologized for the innocent as victims, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I want to tell you that in this statement, all the indifference, insensitivity and cynicism that adorn these cruel white-blooded, cold-blooded NATO killers have been gathered. But he didn't miss a chance to get us ready, so don't happen to think about defending the citizens of Kosovo, we'll protect them, just call them. NATO knew, and thus approved Hashim Thaci's famous visit to northern Kosovo, which is the biggest provocation not only for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but throughout the planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45692	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Milorad Mircic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45693	The minister here has decidently pleaded against a mini power plant. We don't know what your position is when it comes to the wind generator. We don't know what your position is when it comes to nuclear power plants. You have decidently ruled out any possibility here if it is you, or your ministry, that a project of any mini power plant can be realized. You tell me Ministers that this Serbia will develop economically and economically if it is deficited in energy. You'll most likely find a solution to this in raising large hydropower plants. To raise large hydro power plants, you need big money. We don't have it as a state. They're not even interested in investors, but we have a situation right now that they're interested in raising these smaller hydropower plants. You're just the authority over it and you said in the eco environments you're against raising hydropower plants. What does that mean? It's a broad term, it's a general place. Does that mean national parks, protected nature? First, there's no problem in technology if the law clearly defined anything to be disturbed in nature when it comes to hydropower plants, if it's defined by law. If the inspection service monitors the zealously all tasks related to the preparation to the finals of any project, which refers to the production of electricity, there is no problem. If you let it break the law, if you find any shortcuts to do it, then there'll be problems. You have not declared what attitude it is when it comes to wind generators raised in Serbian cereals in Vojvodina, where you can no longer find birds, birds, insects, or anything in the vicinity, and there are orchards nearby that need to be naturally questioned, ministers, so that you remain unarranged and it would be interesting to say what the government's final position is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45694	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jojić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, for the past 20 years, a false atmosphere has been created to protect the environment only for reasons to extract taxpayers' money from the Republic of Serbia's budget and to spend uncontrollably. It is necessary to check how much is in Panchev, as I come from Pančev as a member of the SRS, and for years I have been pointing to problems that Pančev is the most polluted city in the Republic of Serbia, how many environmental taxes have been charged, and where did this tax end? She ended up in other purposes and in cases of tourism. Unfortunately, the ineffectiveness of the competent state authorities in practice has shown that there are no energetic measures against hazardous waste pollutants, and in Panchev, it is actually a very dangerous waste site. Therefore, the competent authorities who were in charge, and above all environmental inspectors were obliged to carry out regular inspections. However, for the last seven, eight months of your engagement and public statement, I suggest you often address the public and point out where the lives and health of Serbian citizens are at stake, because the case in Obrenovac, the case in Pancheva, was launched, but the state authorities did not follow it well, except BIA. If it hadn't been for BIA, there wouldn't have been a process of several of these dangerous criminals who were actually committing crimes, because they were allowed, no one controlled them, uninterrupted, so they got rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45696	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Sarovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today the debate on this law is slowly ending, and I think we should sum up the impressions. The citizens probably didn't understand that, but it is a law of all three members and a fourth member that says that the law takes effect on the eighth day of its adoption in the Official Messenger. 400 amendments have been submitted to those four members. Of these 400 amendments, more than 300 were submitted by representatives of the ruling coalition. If the three members of the law are submitted to you by representatives of the ruling 300 amendments coalition, what does it say about the law and what it says about how much they appreciate your work? The second thing, which again speaks of the quality of the law, you accepted three amendments from SPS MP Djordz Milicevic on three members. So, for days, we've been arguing in the Assembly, you're sending a three-member bill, and no member is good enough not to have to make amends. What are these relations in the ruling coalition, that's the real question? You, on the other hand, not counting an SPS MP whose three amendments you accepted, over 300 amendments to the ruling coalition, how much did you accept? Twenty percent? Thirty percent? You're not. Two proms? Three pomegranates? And that's a lot, you haven't accepted that much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45698	A colleague of Sarovic's, a little about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45699	You've accepted zero. So what does this say about your opinion and how do you qualify for the work of the ruling coalition's MPs? Did they completely miss the subject? Do they have any idea what it says in these... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45700	Two minutes, colleague Sarovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45701	Dear President, honourable MPs, I highly appreciate your concern for my health and my relations within the coalition, which I must tell you are working very well. I thank the ruling majority for supporting us so much. Thank you. Of course, I don't expect the same left-hand reaction you're sitting on right now, but it's completely legitimate. Nemanja Sarovic: We are sitting right. No, you're on my left. Nemanja Sarovic: But this is the National Assembly. ) This paradigm can be solved elsewhere, elsewhere, outside of this room, when we have a drink, for example. We can also be funny enough to talk this way, to understand your intensities and, as we do now, not argue, what kind of situation I've seen here and which, of course, I don't like. Relations in the coalition are, as far as I'm concerned, excellent. The opportunity to submit the amendment, as you yourself do, is the opportunity to talk, I noticed here, not only about the law, but about other things, which I don't like, but it's an opportunity for you and others. So, I am a happy man when 300 MPs, or 250, more or less, need to talk about the environment, at least using the opportunity to through the amendment and often things that may not fit quite in what we have imagined when it comes to this law, but you will have this law on the agenda and later, when we will really talk deeply about other topics that regulate this law, which are very important, and then we will have the opportunity to talk about the amendments that any of the Members will propose unrelated to it, as well as now, to which party it belongs. I can't assure you that if you don't have the experience of working, say, at the Secretariat in Belgrade or my work for the past year. It can only be a practice, and that is why I support your skepticism and your distraction of attention to whose amendments have been accepted, whose are not accepted, but in fact that's not the point. (President: I thank you, Mr. Minister. The point is, we're talking about important things here. You've all had and you have a chance to talk about the environment and, I repeat, it seems to me that you all support the fight for a healthy environment. Thank you for that one more time. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. Mr. Sarovic, unfortunately for you, Minister... . Nemanja Sarovic: He misread my presentation. ) He was an excellent interpreter of your exposure. (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45702	You've injured, Mr. Arsic, Article 27, you've injured Article 103, you've injured Article 107, and you've injured Article 158, Section 7. You have an obligation to hold meetings of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In line with the Rules of Procedure, MPs have the right to reply when someone misread their exposure, which was undoubtedly the case before, because Mr Trivan said that they had supported him from the 300 amendments submitted to the three members of the ruling coalition. Watch out, 300 shifts per three members? Secondly, let's do it one more time, you let Mr. Trivan speak longer, and that's what you always do when it comes to ministers, that's what you always do when MPs are ruling coalitions, and then sometimes you let someone out of opposition two, three, five or ten seconds longer and you say, well, I let you go too. (Alexander Martinovic: Let him speak for half an hour.) It is, but none of us have spoken for four or five minutes. (Alexander Martinovic: Here, let him go.) ) Warn that person not to throw away. If there's anything he has to say, let him report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If he doesn't, then it's best to keep his mouth shut. You know, one smart man said: "Better to keep quiet and that people doubt what your intellectual state is than to speak, and then divorce every doubt."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45703	I really didn't understand your advertising infraction with the Rules of Procedure, so I can't answer that. Here, I didn't understand you. I don't want to interpret you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: Can I have the word? That's enough from the place, you can nod your head. I have no obligation to give you my word. Nemanja Sarovic: Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure! ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45704	Mr. Arsic, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure again. The Rules of Procedure say he is required by the chairman to give a reply to the MP, whether in his opinion the Rules of Procedure has been broken. So you're obliged to give an answer, like that. You can't say I didn't understand, so I won't give you an answer. If you don't understand, then let someone else preside. Secondly, you are obliged if the MP is not satisfied with the answer, and I am not satisfied, because you have not given it or can not be satisfied, you are obliged to ask me - whether I want the Parliament to declare in the voting day whether the Rules of Procedure is injured; which in this case is the only solution, because you did not understand and you did not know that he was hurt and that you allowed me to answer. The only way that's possible in the National Assembly is if you give me your word, not to speak for five minutes or two, but let me say, I don't want the Assembly to plead or I want the Assembly to plead. Conclusive stores don't exist here. What, am I supposed to untie my shoelace so you're gonna figure that out with a yes or no? To nod my head, to wave, I can't think. So don't violate dignity in the National Assembly and if you gave me your word to plead, it would take five seconds. This is how I have to teach you the Rules of Procedure, so it takes two minutes. You can't ask MPs to wave, to jump, to wink, not to know what they're doing, so that you can figure out what they want. One way, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is to be said and that is to give me your word and answer. So don't do that anymore. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45705	Here, colleague Sarovic, for the last time you got a chance to speak, now I have to give an answer for the new advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Nemanja Sarovic: Answer to see what goes on. All right, colleague Sarovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, because it doesn't say that I have to give you my word again. Nemanja Sarovic: How can I plead without a word? I don't know, you're a great Rules of Procedure interpreter, so figure out a way, here. Nemanja Sarovic: Shall I think of a way? Is that your explanation? ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Members, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45706	Thank you. What can be concluded by this debate is that we did not have a serious debate on environmental protection. We've only lost a few days of time, and you've imposed a theme on us, which is what I told you yesterday, that we're dealing with bats, insects and other things, and that we're not dealing with the main, how can I tell you, that we're not dealing with what you came here for. You came here in fact, to give you some consent, so that as a minister, you can use money from the Green Fund without the knowledge of the public and give it to whoever you love or who you like, in the way that you prescribe it, and that you do it in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture. It's a terrible thing for us, as the SRS, of course we'll never agree to such things, because this is far from the eyes of the public and we're a party that doesn't deal with current politics or daily politics. A little while ago, you said something on that subject, and you rested us. We are a party that is deeply state-of-the-art, which deals with serious issues, which seriously thinks about every dinar taken from Serbian citizens, because otherwise you do not work. You do not create anything, you only assign what the people have given you. What the people gave must be deployed in a transparent manner, meaning clearly, unequivocally, exactly, and to bring into the congregation every penny, or copy of which each dinar was spent. This way, if you thought you were the one who told us something about environmental protection and you've been potentialing your expertise all along, believe me, you didn't. What you didn't do firsthand, which is that you didn't bother to explain to the agricultural owners, or owners of agricultural holdings what IPARD funds are, how they are used, but you did it through Croatian agencies with a quotation of 14,000 dinars and with... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45707	Thank you, colleagues. The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45708	I am afraid that you are constantly trying to replace the thesis and it is simply not possible, however you speak, the truth is only one, the laws are public, the EU rules are public and clear. If you don't know what IPARD funds are, I'd be happy to explain. The competition is called by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and the rule that will come out of this is also a public matter and will be done absolutely in accordance with the law, EU rules and the rule that we will bring. You can repeat a hundred times that it's not like that, but the only way to make it all work is this way and it's only in the interest of those people who need to make those 160, 170m euros to try to do something with their property and our country. So, we're gonna see what happens, who's gonna fly right, whether it's gonna be you or it's gonna be me. We are creating an opportunity for people to take this money and participate in it, and this is just an attempt to make this part of the rules that the EU is asking us to do, and that is to respect environmental rules so that someone can participate in those funds. So the legality is more than clear, transparency too. Thank you for your attention. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45709	You have no right to a replica. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic: How can I not have Arsic? ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic: It doesn't make sense, you can't do that. It's a business thing. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45710	Please, this really doesn't make sense. Article 107. This is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, MPs, the public and citizens of Serbia. After all, farmers and all the agricultural holdings they were supposed to apply to these funds. There's over 600,000 of them. You'll be burying the farm this year and you won't even say... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45711	Member of 107nd colleague Vukajlovic was not injured. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović: How? It sure is. Why don't you give me your word? Please, it doesn't make sense. ) Article 107 is not injured. The right to replicate or to interpret the misdemeanor of one of the participants in the discussion or to make an offensive statement about him. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic: He expressed himself offensively. ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic: What do you think? It'll cost you more. ) Colileg Sarović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45712	Mr. Arsic, a member of 27 has been injured and a member of 107 has been injured and a member of 103 has been injured. You didn't listen to Mrs. Vesna Vukajlovic until the end. If she did, I'm sure you'd understand what she wanted to say. She wanted to say that your way of conducting a session and the way of interpreting whether someone has the right or not to comply with the Rules of Procedure, that such conduct has been violated by the dignity of the National Assembly, which I absolutely agree with. There's no need to get nervous in this discussion. The minister responded, there were replicas in the previous session and there were no ugly words and there was no insult and there was no anxiety. Only by refusing that when it is obvious that an SRS MP has the right to reply, you deny that replica and then of course you can't expect someone to react kindly to it. It is, therefore, that you must establish a single criterion and that you must respect the right of MPs and replicas and report to the Rules of Procedure in full scope. The right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure says that the MP has two minutes to explain how the injury was done. That means you can't self-evaluate, after five or ten seconds, that the time has passed and that he hasn't convinced you enough. Because if you had the opportunity to estimate after a second, or after five, then the Rules of Procedure wouldn't have decided two minutes. So, every time you don't allow two minutes to explain yourself, to convince you the MP that he's been broken by the Rules of Procedure, you've broken him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45713	Comrade Sarovic, let me answer you right now. The right to replicate shall be governed by Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Under that same article, in paragraph 3, there is a discretionary right of the chair to decide whether the conditions for giving a replica have been met or not. The colleague Vesna Vukajlović advertised Article 107 – the dignity of the National Assembly, mentioned Article 107, and then addressed the minister instead of me. That's why I broke up. Because, according to the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it addresses the chairman. Nemanja Sarovic: She spoke to you, can watch wherever she wants. ( ) She spoke to her colleague, Sarovic. You can turn whatever you want, and the upside-down Rules of Procedure, she's turned around. I'm sorry if you're not happy with the answer. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Yes) Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Stojanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45714	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, every one, including this one, the government wants to conceal the fact that it is the most responsible in the environment. I have already spoken in my previous amendment that our most significant natural resources are in the hands of foreigners, which is unacceptable. The most valuable sources of water have been sold since DS, and we know that water today represents the most significant resource. Under the control of the DS, the huge areas of the most fertile Vojvodina countries, whose owners became Croatian tycoons, have also been sold. This power is no better than this. We're witnessing that these days a combination of PKB, which owns huge agricultural land, has been sold. Who guarantees us that new owners of these agricultural areas do not use or will not use illicit chemical resources, so as to increase the yield? The use of such funds leads to total devastation of agricultural land, and the consequences of the environment, plant and animal life will be inconceivable. So, it has to be stopped immediately with the sale of our natural resources, because it's a safe way to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45715	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45716	We tried to explain to the farmers, Mr. Minister, that they would not benefit as much as you represent from IPARD 2. When IPARD 1 was promoted, Minister Nedimovic said it would put the way for Serbian tycoons and dignitaries. Imagine, it is these tycoons that the government of the Republic of Serbia has allowed to import everything that a Serbian peasant can produce, to destroy Serbian fruit, agriculture, Serb livestock farming, which is at the level of 1910 and now only to get ecological protection and resources from IPARDA 2 and Serbian agriculture will flourish. But it won't be like that. Because the amount that only a drop in the sea is talking about is billions, and you are aware of that, Mr. Trivan, is needed to reconfirm and restore each sector of individual Serbian agriculture. This should be one strategy programme, so you see with all amendments to the SRS MPs, you are clearly shown – the Sustainable Development Strategy, the Agriculture Strategy, the Water Management Strategy. Well, I'm the one who wants to talk about the water management strategy. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that in Gostil, in the municipality of Chatitina, where a certain local kabadiah of some Ljubiša, Stamatović's errand boy, can't do so without the consent of the president of the Čajetin municipality, a visit to the waterfall of Gostilija, which is national good? Here, is there a colleague from the O.R. who went to see the waterfall? Man set the ramp, one house. He says - I'd rather do this than sleep on a bed on a straw, 150 dinars, for parents, for children, for tourist visits, for excursions. On what basis and under what law has the waterfall “Ripaljak”, which is a national good, natural phenomenon and monument of nature since 1948 been arranged, well, I think, five times better than the Guests? It's the same case with "The Falls of the Companion", with the waterfall "Lisine", with "Tupavica" on the Old Mountain.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45717	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45718	Imagine if we were going to Sokobanja and all over the place to charge for the waterfalls. Please tell me, did you know about this and how you're going to stop it as a minister? No one has the right to charge a dime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45719	Thank you. National MP Daniel Stojadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. My colleague Stojadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45720	Thank you. I'll just take the opportunity to thank the Minister for adopting this amendment. It was a synchronization. I'll leave the rest of my time to my fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45721	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45722	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, we have been pointing you to serious environmental problems for several days and we have asked you more questions. Some of them got answers, some didn't. We hope you'll address all the problems we've been giving you. Through Chapter 27, Serbia should adopt several hundred regulations, or European standards of the environment. What's not good is that we accept all these standards unconditionally, even though some of them, I think, most of them, don't respond or are worse than ours. In particular, when we talk about it, it is control of the quality of drinking water. Serbia has stricter control of the quality of drinking water than the EU. We accept and apply all these European standards that, in particular, are very bad. How do you explain that? Then, something that has proved to be a major problem in the city of Belgrade is municipal waste that is out of control of local service utility companies. Three to four local self-government units have been identified for one dump. Thus, Belgrade has only one dump in Vinca, while garbage is driven through central city municipalities to the dump. So, at least there should be another dump so that, I say, from Batajnica to Vinca, from Chukarica to Vinca, you don't get through the city center trash. In the end, I would ask you how many companies, or companies, are involved in the processing of construction waste in Belgrade, since many projects, for example, specifically from the municipality of Chukarica, are not accepted because there is obviously a monopoly over it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45723	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45724	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, I have submitted an amendment which, in the new Article 101a, changes, in fact, and reads: "users who exercise the right to support IPARD funds in the field of agriculture and rural development have an obligation to meet the necessary conditions of the environmental protection provided for by this law and sublegal acts adopted under this law." So it's very important that we define that all those who achieve incentives have to make sure that our environment is protected, but not only by users, but also by all of us, that consciousness changes in terms of which you've been talking for several days, that protecting the environment is not the job you're dealing with and your team of associates. It's actually a job that we all have to do and, better yet, it's not a job, it's a way of life that we're supposed to lead. So I really like the way you run the Ministry and what's very important is every detail that you're going to go into and especially what you're announcing, which is that only a lot of details will be discussed further under the laws. Please do not mind the political discussions that are trying to "wow" themselves and hold to some political machinations and manipulation through receiving words on the amendment. This is actually something to talk about through the profession, through what is humane and important to the people, and not to use the amendments for some political discussions and for getting time to oppose political views. So this is a topic for citizens, for life in this country, and I think it's a shame that this is a topic for political debates, and that's been trying to get the opposition back a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45725	Thank you. National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Dragash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45726	I believe that the Minister and the Ministry were able to adopt this amendment, because it is precisely a matter of precision in terms of non-slangon speech, such as should not be in law, but in fact the legal-technical correctness of speech and the manner in which the laws are written. When, in any case, this is the case, I will take the opportunity to say that the importance of IPARD funds is absolutely great for the future development of rural agriculture, and I will underline what I said yesterday that this is a multidisciplinary issue which must certainly include the responsibility of all, and the ministries, and local self-government, all the way to the individuals, and I certainly want to commend, I think that it is good, that the law provides that there is a unit of speciality in the ministry that will be able to help citizens when it comes to applying for projects that can be applied, given that we do not have enough educated people in the area of agriculture, forest protection, water etc. which can be prepared, so I think that this is something that can be particularly significant and probably through a service that is professional and qualified, and I believe that it will be in the future, even more can be done on this, and that is exactly the shift that is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45727	Thank you. The People's MP, Marjana Marash, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45728	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable Ministers with Associates, Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 3. The draft law lays down the legal basis for the creation of a sublaw, which would define exactly what, in terms of compliance with environmental protection conditions, will be checked in the case of users, IPARD natural persons. My amendment was in terms of precision of the legal provision. He's not accepted. I am not angry that the amendments of some other MPs from my parliamentary group have been accepted. There are probably other amendments that have been refused similar content to mine, which is why they were rejected. What I want to point out, I was already saying that funding for environmental protection should be greater and predictable, and the Fiscal Council said in its recommendations for the 2019 budget that these funds could be increased by 130 million in the following year. They said that 55% of the population has a sewage connection, that only 10% of waste water is processed, that 80% of municipal waste is organised, and very little is processed. For that reason, knowing what everything we need to fulfill by us when it comes to ecology, they suggested that the budget could be increased, given the state of the budget, by this 130 million next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45729	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, colleague Mihaylovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45730	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, has been talking a little longer about Article 3, but it is very important that Article 3 is very important because it prescribes and actually applies to Article 101 of the basic law. It is important because it prescribes a legal basis for the creation of a sublegal act, i.e. a regulation to define the use of IPARD funds. It is very, very important that in the right way and decadently clearly determine the conditions in which these funds can be used. In the alterations and additions, we have that this article contains the 2nd position. The 1st position says that the appropriate conditions are met, and in the 2nd position, the minister and the minister of agriculture and rural development are bound by agreement, both ministers, to prescribe conditions. So, if we are going to go in a consistent language, maybe these terms should have been customized, even in the first position, to say that they meet the prescribed conditions according to what it says in 2nd, that both ministers consensually prescribe the terms. However, of course, the question is language interpretation, and these are already some finesse. Of course, what is in the first position – the appropriate conditions – are probably thought to be the proper conditions for those who are prescribed, which follows in article 2. I wouldn't go on to base myself, look at these fineses that may not be really that important, but I want to say two things about using IPARD funds, which is that using IPARD funds actually happens to improve and develop agricultural production in rural areas, which is very important for the state, but also for users in these areas. Secondly, it is achieved by using, in these people, and by raising the ecological awareness that using these funds actually has to take care of environmental protection. When it comes to environmental consciousness, that's not enough. I think, Mr. Minister, that we should insist on your part, as well as the government that creates this country's policy, on media support in raising environmental awareness. Also, through educational TV programs, you need to work more on that plan. Thirdly, permanent communication and co-operation with local environments by the ministry is very important, which is what you do and for every commendation is your mobility and the tour of many communities in Serbia where there are problems or where some future projects should be solved. In that sense, I also thank you for starting a tour of Serbia with your associates, where there are problems, but here you have visited some small local self-governments, undeveloped, such as the Petrovic municipality on Mlavi. I'm grateful for that. Here we have established with local self-government one communication, one co-operation that should result in what is the realisation of very important projects in the field of the environment, such as the waste water treatment plant or storage and waste processing. Thank you, Minister, for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45731	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45732	Mr. Minister, just to remind you that you've been sitting in the 14th government since the introduction of a multi-party system in the Republic of Serbia and that you were in the first one. From 14 governments to now, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as isolated and in particular, had only two governments. In 1998, when the SRS was first in government and now in 2018, i.e. in the Government of Ana Brnabić in 2017. Is there anything to tell you, Mr. Minister, the fact that the SRS was the first time she entered the government to have, this government, the Ministry of Environmental Protection? Therefore, you must listen more carefully to the remarks and suggestions of the MPs of the SRS. You must know that they are exclusively well-intentioned. I can't say that you've been acting charlatanly, that's not true, you've been following the debates of the MPs, thanks, I can say freely, and the tolerance of the presidents. It was spoken here, not outside the subject, not perhaps strictly about three members of this law, but about what is the problem of Serbian citizens and don't think that you are more interested in a healthy environment than I or anyone else. I don't know, maybe I'll make a mistake, my colleague Jokic knows, there was a Milojko in Valjev, a Milojko guide on the river Gradac, so that's the man who deserved to be built the biggest monument in the fight to preserve a healthy environment and if we have such a fact, then you can't say that the reactions are, I don't know, political nature. Our reactions aren't like that. On the contrary, I also want to point out to you the fact that a large number of inspectors in local self-governments were placed at the time of G17 plus and at the time of DS and some others when political settlements were to be resolved and these people both then, both today or today, did not understand or learn to do their job and then problems arise in the protection of the environment. I'm not saying that someone from the ministry needs to go and kill those inspectors or people who don't have proper and good treatment for the environment, but your activity has to be much more serious, much stronger, that people learn to translate into justice and knowledge. Well, you saw it, and in one statement, you said the air pollution from the heat was 60% of the industry's 35% of the car use... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45733	The word after the amendment is Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45734	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, would be tragic for Serbia if I believed that I was the only one who cared about the environment and that mission had no chance of success. So I believe you understand me well, and I have already said several times in these few days that, with a few exceptions, there are no MPs in this room who have not shown full concern for our environment. Here, I'm speaking publicly again, if you haven't noticed that by now. I don't think the suggestions, the objections I get are malicious. We can interpret them one way or another, I'm interpreting them from my professional angle. Of course I'm not politically illiterate, that I know when criticism comes from political, and when it comes from another Corps, but quite still, my job is something else. For the sake of truth, the Republic of Serbia has a long genealogy of environmental activity, and I must remind you that in 1948, we created the Institute for Nature Protection, and that is very important, because Serbia and then Yugoslavia were the peri-ones in the world in the fight against the environment, and on the proposal of the then country, the International Environment Day was established, and Serbia itself, which we can be proud of together, has already formed the first separate Ministry of Environment in 1991, led by Dr. Pavle Todorovic, who established the foundations and I am of him, as well as many who deal with the environment, learned a lot, and then followed by a further gene that you talked about. Many breaks have changed in these 14 governments, and I can say from ministers that they were representatives of the Radical Party, New Democracy, the Socialist Party of Serbia, DHSS, DSS, DS etc. (Verica Radeta: Serbian Radical Party. I said a little bit. (Miss Radeta: No Radical Party.) She didn't exist like that. Forgive me for that. So, no doubt, we know who was there, and that's where we were less involved in it. And that's why I believe we're all responsible for what's been done and for everything that comes. This coalition has shown full responsibility for what we're doing, and we know how we got there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45735	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45736	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have made has tried, that is, the motivation of this amendment is a law which I am sure we will adopt in practical terms of words, to experience the full effect, and that means that through practical application we will achieve the goal of which we are having a discussion about everything that has been discussed at the session of this Assembly. However, there is some misunderstanding when it comes to synergies between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry where you are headed, whose head you are, where indeed both ministries must make their full contribution, and in their full capacity, in order to truly benefit from IPARD funds, these incentives would be achieved in the most optimal way. I think what you suggested is good. Of course, this amendment has tried with a purely legal aspect to contribute that through a more precise formulation something may change qualitatively, or improve, but in no case will I be dissatisfied and remain as it was. What seems very important to me is that we finally get rid of the demagogues, because they are obviously becoming more mortgages, not for the citizens of Serbia, but for the entire globe, for all the citizens of this world. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because we're in our statements here and the citizens and the media, etc. full concerns about the environment, and in practice this concern about the environment from some rhetorical function in a practical sense of the word means nothing, i.e. an activdoji or two diametrically different worlds. I know you're aware of it as a man who is life-savingly devoted to this problem, and of course and professionally dedicated to this problem, but I think it's a wake-up call, and I'm sure all those who really open their eyes to the problem, and they don't shut up and run away from the problem, that we're going to get to the same indicator, and that indicator says this -- if we all contribute together to that statistical data from one and a half pounds of garbage or waste, how much waste is turned into a citizen, or if that waste turns into its opposite, and it gets useful value and used to the lives of citizens, then we did it. At least we did something. Is that what we do? It's a big question mark, and then every one of us, whether we're here or on the streets of Belgrade or across Serbia or across the globe, if we don't look at it the right way, then all of what we're doing is aimless and meaningless. We can, Your Honor, do a lot of things that we can norm. We can pass system-based laws dealing with this matter, but if all we do doesn't raise awareness of what the goal is, there won't be much effect from norming unless this law is accepted in us from birth, from birth, through education, through everything that's made up of our being in life, so our existence. Consciousness wakes up late. Now there's finally consciousness after the environmental threat. Where was the consciousness when the environment began to threaten? Where were our ancestors then? All of them behind us? About 100 years ago, the water in the rivers was drinking water. Is that how it is today? The air we breathed was the cleanest air. Is that how it is today? Are we paying the price of globalisation, industrialization and many things that represent the positive shift of humanity? But in which direction? Economic, economic, etc. How much this reflected on the environment – people who feel it well know. When an emergency situation was declared in France several years ago in the entire country, when air pollution rose to 30 units of pollution, an emergency was indeed declared. How many of those units are with us? It's over 100 in China, where the environment is really quite endangered. Why am I saying this? Well, because the entire globe is threatened and because it has to be devoted in a far more comprehensive way. Of course we contribute to what we're doing here, but if our heads don't wake up to the awareness that our environment is a priority, the question of what we leave to our generations is. How are they going to fight after us with a phenomenon that's more than dangerous, and I don't want to be catastrophic, but only as one serious man trying to think what in the future? Will our part of life be wastewater treatment plants, air treatment plants, etc., if we allow it, then the question is, what is the meaning of life in general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45737	The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Danica Bukvic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Bukvić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45738	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the proposed law. The amendment shall specify and technical regulation of the legal provision. I would point out that Article 101 of the amendment lays down the obligation for users who exercise the right to IPARD to encourage agriculture and rural development to meet the appropriate conditions for environmental protection. This law creates a legal basis for the creation of a sublegal act, i.e. a regulation to define exactly what will be checked by the IPARD user of incentives, or natural persons, or farmers, in order to meet the conditions for the protection of the environment. All of this will contribute, of course, to making IPARD funds more efficient. Environmental protection is a priority and it is a priority topic and I therefore commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia who recognised this problem and formed a special Ministry of Environmental Protection, which, as we have already heard, has taken direct action from its competence to address the problem in this area. If we don't have a healthy environment, we don't have a healthy man. There are a number of diseases that are caused by factors whose factors are located in the outer middle. As the environment minister has already said, in fact, working to protect the environment is a preventive work to protect human health. I especially point out this because I come from the Lazarec Municipality where there is a great giant “REIK Kolubara” which is the source of life and which enables tens of thousands of people to exist, but at the same time it is also the largest polluter and most serious environmental pollutant we live in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45739	You're bringing the end of my colleague, Bukvic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45740	I would refer to the aero-pollution, or air pollution that exists by working in this industry, and say that because of the aero-pollution in the municipality where I live, this aero-pollution affects the deterioration of the health status of the population. First of all, there is an increase in non-infectious respiratory diseases... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45741	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45742	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 3. The draft law, in the new Article 101a in the second sentence of point 2, ‘IPARD incentives’ is replaced by the words ‘IPRARD fund incentives’. In fact, the amendment is made to specify the legal provision. As far as this law is concerned, which is on the agenda, one of the most significant changes is summed up in the next. In order for a agricultural holding to exercise the right to grants, one of its own projects from the processing or production of agricultural products will have to, among other things, obtain a solution from the competent authority of the Ministry of Environment Protection so that the proposed project does not endanger the environment. Environmental protection aims to preserve biological balance. A healthy environment is the basis for the preservation of human existence, for the healthy development of society and for the life of the population. With changes in nature as a result of man's acquisition of nature and production, which is manifested by the distortion of ecological balance, there is also awareness of the need to protect the environment, whose development needs to be pursued in modern civilization from the earliest age. We must all work together to develop awareness and a habit of preserving the environment from the earliest childhood to become a culture of behavior. That this important segment of society also proves that this problem was addressed by the Ministry of Agriculture before the establishment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In 2016, when Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic was headed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, a set of laws were adopted in the field of environmental protection that were in line with EU laws. An important item was the establishment of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia with the aim of establishing the predictability of continuity in the system of financing environmental protection. I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia, because one of the very important decisions was just the decision to form the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Its establishment finally created conditions for environmental protection to cease to be in the other plan, compared to other sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45743	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45744	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are in Article 3. The draft law amending the current Article 101a adds to Article 101a which treats IPARD users incentivising funds. I want to, although it has already been pointed out several times in this debate, simply because of citizens, to repeat that amendments to the law were necessary to enable the use of the Green Fund's funds to co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession funds to ensure the sustainability and stability of projects in the field of environmental protection in the most efficient way. What is important is to point out that fundamental changes concern meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and more effective provision of funds from the Green Fund for Infrastructure Projects from the IPA Funds, in the field of environmental protection, and that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the users of these funds, as repeatedly pointed out. We have already made all those key arguments several times, which are the benefits this law will make possible, as well as the objectives achieved by the proposed law. For all these reasons, I want to strongly support the proposed legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45745	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45746	Thank you. Dear Minister, this is my third amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. I want to finally recapitulate and praise this bill. We all know it's formal legal changes and financial reform when it comes to funds from IPA, IPARD funds. The paper, we've all concluded, is that financial resources can be used by both legal and legal persons, of course, with the supervision and your inspections from the Ministry, which will determine whether natural persons have the conditions to apply them. Dear Ministers, there is a big job ahead of you, and all of us, when it comes not only to the accession of Chapter 29 and the EU, but also to our environment. We all know what our priority is, water, air, land. And that's all about my amendment, maintaining ecological potential. I would only like one message to our citizens and citizens to say about World Environment Day, which is June 5th. On that day, there are a number of actions across our country, in every city, such actions exist. I just want to tell them that every day is the world's day of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45747	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45748	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I would at this time make a significant reference to the phenomenon of biodiversity, as well as perhaps the most important components for study and action towards the protection of all life forms, i.e. living organisms in our immediate environment. To remind you, biodiversity represents the diversity and diversity of all living things on planet Earth. So it includes all water ecosystems and ecological complexes, which are part of, but also diversity within species and between species, as well as between ecosystems, include diversity of flora, fauna, viruses, bacteria, mushrooms, etc. Why do I think biodiversity is an important topic? Because we are in an unbreakable relationship with nature and we simply depend on it, and that is why we need to work harder and help it recover while it can. We are witnessing that in the last few decades species and habitats have been lost at a worrying rate, as a result of human action, so I think we have enough time to preserve the existing and contribute and provide conditions for the survival of endangered species. Finally, I will mention what our great scientific Nikola Tesla once said, and I quote: "There are no things that would be as valuable to study as nature. “ With this quote, I will complete the explanation of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45749	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45750	Dear Chairman, Arsic, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, here we are at the end of the debate in the details of the Environmental Protection Act, so I must note that the environmental protection authority issue an act to those acts to ensure that the investments in question meet the conditions in the field of environmental protection in accordance with the law governing the environmental impact assessment and in EU regulations that are in line with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. I come from the township of Rakovica and will join my colleague Dusici Stojkovic, who spoke in her discussion yesterday about issuing an integrated license to the company "Juneisk". Well, I sincerely hope, Minister, that your ministry within the legal time limit will deliver a notice at the request delivered to the Ministry on 17 September 2018 by the Rakovica municipality, because, and a colleague said, indeed, that is what the citizens of the Principals are asking us to do, and we, as she says, are doing for our citizens. What is also a problem for the people of Rakovica, and for their health, is an ambrosia that covers large areas, so I hope that the destruction of ambrosia will be planned, although the township of Rakovica is trying to organize and destroy it, at least in areas where more citizens are inhabited. Local self-government expects the ministry's assistance, as this area is important for a more quality way of life for Serbian citizens, and funding must be predictable and greater. We all know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45751	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Dickie, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45752	Thank you, Chairman. After eight years, the Serbian government fulfilled its promise that Serbian farmers will finally have direct EU funding and the funds will be used up to the last euro and completely transparent. Our goal is to all of us together, to withdraw to the last euro from the funds foreseen by the IPARD programme. Currently, as far as I know, about 175m euros are available, which is a significant money that can help develop Serbian agriculture, as well as make it all transparent. The monitoring of the implementation of the IPARD 2 pre-accession programme must therefore be transparent in order for users who have submitted requests for IPARD to be satisfied in the fruit and vegetable sector, milk and meat sector, as well as all others interested, including the general public, with a view to making the number of possible remarks as little as possible. A grant agreement from IPARD funds for rural development and agriculture on the use of investment support amounting to 175m euros in grants from 2014 to 2020, concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission, resulting in the work of several ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water management with the European Commission, and the funds intended for equipment, machinery and facilities, which will create additional value and create resources for the processing industry. When Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic presented the first 10 contracts to Serbian farmers for the purchase of money from European funds intended for the IPARD programme on 6 July 2018, he wished to reduce costs and increase the quality of production and warned that there was a control of the spending of funds, as well as a ban on estrangement of machinery and vehicles until a certain period. Farmers who after eight years of various stories about IPARD that day...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45753	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45754	I'm finishing this sentence. On that day, in July of this year, they received the first concrete contracts, and five for those dealing with livestock, four warfare and one fruit business, were participants in the big event and can be said to be turning points in our agriculture... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45755	Thank you. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45756	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, have already spoken only about the right to use money from EU pre-accession funds and their importance for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Article 3 The draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act concerns the IPARD Fund. It is pre-accession aid for rural development, i.e. grants for agriculture. In the period from 2014 to 2020, the beneficiaries of this fund are legal and natural persons, and the funds are intended for cultivation, production, nutrition in food and agricultural production. The total amount left to the Republic of Serbia from this fund by 2020 is almost 230m euros. Experience from other countries shows that the largest number of unaccepted projects has been rejected due to poor preparation and non-compliance of projects with the general and specific objectives of the programme. It is therefore necessary to take appropriate steps to remove the negative experiences of other countries in our case. Therefore, the proposed addition of the existing law, i.e. Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment provides for a legal basis for the production of sublegal acts, i.e. a regulation which would define exactly what will be checked by the IPARD user. In this way, it is largely helpful for individual owners and natural persons involved in agriculture, to meet all that is necessary for them to participate in this programme and to be beneficiaries of financial assistance, which is allocated by the IPARD programme. The beneficiaries of the rights of this fund are primarily natural persons, i.e. family owners, entrepreneurs, companies and agricultural cooperatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45757	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45758	Given all of the above, the proposed additions to the Environmental Protection Act are significantly contributing to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and to the raising of the ecological awareness and I believe that this must be... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45759	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45760	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, proposed amendments and additions to the law are not only overcoming differences and harmonising with EU laws, but legal conditions are being created for citizens, whether natural or legal persons, to be able to apply to IPARD funds. IPARD funds are used to encourage agriculture and develop the processing food industry or by environmental standards. Users can be legal persons, in fact they can be persons dealing with production, processing and farming in the area of the food industry. These funds automatically encourage an increase in the number of owners and companies involved in the production of healthy food, thereby increasing the number of jobs. In this way, it also directly affects Serbia's overall development and nature conservation. More widely, this is a major developmental opportunity for Serbia's eco-tourism, and given the current direction of Serbia's development, which this government advocates, we see that much has been invested and stimulated by this very branch of economy. Eco-tourism in Serbia should be not only a means to achieve the overall sustainable development of tourism, but something to show Serbia as a tourist destination and make it recognizable, creating a desirable country image with rich natural and cultural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45761	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45762	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, as amendments to Article 3 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment provide for a space for the adoption of a sublegal act that will define the conditions for users of IPARD funds, which will determine their obligations in the field of environmental protection, so my amendment also adds to these conditions and a special accent puts the importance of preserving the ecological heritage. The IPARD is an instrument for pre-accession assistance related to rural development and carries 160m euros with it. It is very important that our users can meet all the conditions relating to this competition, in order to achieve the European Union standard and achieve competitiveness. The programme applies to both legal and natural persons involved in the production and processing of the food industry and will carry with them investments in physical assets, which is of great importance to these users. The amendment provides for the obligation to provide evidence to users of these funds that meet the requirements in the field of ecology, whether it is a holding company, a business company, a cooperative or an entrepreneur. Environmental protection is one of the fundamental flows of the European Union, and it is clear why they are so rigorous when it comes to ecology and why Chapter 27, which is before us, is so demanding. The conservation of the environment for the current and future generations is a targeted policy of the European Union's environment, which guarantees better public health, which guarantees the preservation of natural resources that are limited, guaranteeing the competitiveness of the economy both at global level and combating climate change. With the appropriate application of the relevant rules, with the implementation of the policy to pay for the polluter, it is certain that we will be able to meet these standards. We do not have another environment and it is important to include care in all segments of society, in the economy, in agriculture, in transport and energy, to adapt laws, to strengthen supervision of the implementation of this law, to strengthen inspection capacities, to invest in infrastructure, and it is certain that by applying all these regulations, we will be able to meet the standards that bring us new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45763	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45764	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected ministers with their associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, in order to protect the environment, continued education needs to be done in order to raise awareness of the local population, in terms of raising energy efficiency, as the way electricity is produced has a major impact on the climate and the environment itself. In order to increase energy security, it is necessary to create conditions and an environment for the formation of energy cooperatives in order for renewable energy to become the main focus of sustainable development, through not only energy, but also the economic, social and environmental aspects of community development. The economic potential of cooperatives producing renewable energy is reflected in local investment and the creation of new jobs and revenues for the local community. Such a system creates reduced dependence on fossil fuels through an increase in the share of renewable energy sources, greater energy security, thanks to the use of available local renewable energy sources. It also prevents energy poverty caused by high prices of uncontrolled and imported energy. There are currently no energy cooperatives in Serbia, while there are about 4,000 in the European Union. In this way, energy from renewable sources, such as biomass, solar energy, wind energy, etc., would be improved and new jobs would be created and significant revenues would be obtained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45765	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45766	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Serbia is committed to implementing the 2030 Agenda with sustainable development objectives, including as the most important goal of protecting the environment. Accession to the European Union is a priority of the Republic of Serbia, so implementation of reforms aimed at meeting the criteria for accession to the European Union is also of great importance for meeting the objectives of sustainable development, including, as I said, environmental protection, and vice versa, because by meeting the goals of sustainable development, Serbia is actually approaching the European Union. The 2030 Agenda with the Sustainable Development Goals is, in fact, one indication of how and how to leave to future generations a world that will be better, better, healthier and cleaner. To meet Serbia's commitments to the 2030 Agenda, it takes a lot of effort and work, but we also need to work more urgently to change our minds and change our lifestyles, especially in the area of environmental protection. Many of my colleagues supported the Serbian state project in their previous discussions with the gradual elimination of plastic bags. I also believe that a project with the disposal of plastic packaging could be successfully implemented, but what I think is necessary is to allocate appropriate financial resources and to invest Serbia's state in creating the necessary infrastructure, i.e. conditions for the disposal of plastic packaging. We also all agreed in our discussions that natural resources are not unlimited and that what is most urgent is the change of our consciousness, but also once again I note that as a state, we must create the necessary preconditions in order to even require citizens to change their consciousness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45767	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vujadinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45768	Thank you, Chairman. To even see how much progress there is or how far back there is in an area, we need to have certain parameters to make comparisons. I think it's best to compare something that's been in the past with what we have today. So we'll best see what it is, I say, progress or reverse. Ecology and environmental protection in Subotica deals with the public-communal company "Purity and Greenness". The situation we have in the company since 2014 is such that it is one of the biggest losers in the north of Backa, with 200 million dinars of debt, collapsed infrastructure, outdated equipment, expensive loans, etc., many irregularities not identified by Milimir or anyone else, but an audit house. In the past four years, the equipment has been refurbished, the infrastructure is also, we don't have expensive loans, the company has no debt, they've bought modern equipment, it's built the most modern, but I'm not modest when I say, the most modern asylum for dogs and stray cats in the Republic of Serbia. The value of the company has been increased by more than 400 million dinars, and it is one of the most stable enterprises today in the north of Backa. Of course, the merits for this go to the mayor and company management, but that would be impossible if you didn't have the politics and the overall climate created by the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which you, too, are respected ministers. It's best that these aren't just my words. Here, I invite every citizen to make sure with the previous announcement that what I'm saying is true. Of course, the invitation also applies to you, Mr. Minister, and to the public in Serbia. It would be a great honor to see for yourself on the spot. Why am I saying all this? This is what I want to show that the people of Subotica are following what is the steps of the Government, the President of the Republic of Serbia and we, too, in this respected home, will follow all of this, support these legislative proposals, and my amendment is in fact just a supplement of Article 3 and a more accurate interpretation of Article 3 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45769	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojmirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45770	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is evident that we all agree that environmental protection is one of the priorities of every society, including ours. That's what we've been discussing here in these past few days, and every day in public information, we see that everyone is trying to take care of, allegedly, environmental protection. That is the problem with us, whenever we agree on something, and when it is necessary to achieve it, then there are some strange considerations and we do not achieve those goals that we have proclaimed. I have often said here that in the development of every society, education and education are the most important. That's what I'm gonna do again. We need our generations, our children, from our young feet to raise and learn to protect the environment, to be true hosts, brothers and sisters. Is that what we do? Do we teach children how to behave and how to cope with the environment, or environment in which we live? We probably don't do it well, and that's why these things happen to us both in the field of environmental and environmental protection, as well as in other areas. That is why we need to put a focus on the education and education of our younger generations, in order to preserve all the beauty and wealth of this Serbia. In the end, I will only remind myself of the words of the great Chief of Seattle who said: rivers, mountains, forests, fish, birds and all other animals are our brothers and sisters. So we all have to take care of nature, the environment, because they're our brothers and our sisters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45771	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45772	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, Chapter 27 concerning environmental protection includes the negotiations of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Mining, construction and the Ministry of Transport, infrastructure, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health and many others, also includes the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism and many other institutions. This is very important, because only in this interaction can we really come up with good solutions. Ensuring an adequate level of environment in urban conditions today presents a major problem. Sometimes environmental problems were related to lack of adequate infrastructure, unsatisfactory levels of hygiene, overcrowding. Today, environmental problems are more and more complex. It was therefore necessary to adopt and implement sustainable development. The global ecological balance is increasingly relevant which imposes the need to apply relevant instruments operating within the market. Chapter 27 is one of the most expensive, complex and complex chapters in the negotiation process. The financing of environmental protection is one of the priority issues of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the environment from pre-accession funds, as well as from domestic funds, will be invested 160m euros in the period until 2020. What should be pointed out is that today Serbia is introducing new technologies to protect against fires. It's about technology that allows early smoke-based fire detection, unfortunately we've had a negative experience and this is a good example of practice. The European Commission donated close to 2m euros for the procurement of water quality devices and air quality software. A report on Serbia's progress in opening Chapter 27 shows Serbia is progressing in this area. However, we need greater separations to protect the environment in Serbia to recognise environmental protection as an area for greater investment and greater investment, as the green economy is the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45773	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45774	The chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, from discussions all these days, can conclude that the ministry and the ministry are very committed to protecting the environment, and we have heard my colleagues who have made a series of concrete proposals on how to apply the Environmental Protection Act more effectively and more quickly. EU negotiations on Chapter 27 on environmental protection are the most difficult and complex and estimated experts are that Serbia will need more than 20 years and at least 10 to 12 billion euros to achieve European standards in the area. The reason for the accelerated growth of environmentalism lies in the fact that under man’s influence there have been global changes in the conditions of life on the planet that threaten the very survival of mankind. Ecology is expected to deal with fundamental laws of the functioning of the biosphere to offer solutions to overcome the environmental crisis. For example, I will say that the Belgrade Youth Office implemented the project "Young, Tesla and Ecology" at the end of last year with the aim of informing young people about the importance of the environment. The project responds to the problem of young people's lethargy in terms of the use of renewable energy sources. The project also addresses the problem of young people's awareness of environmental protection. The basis of both problems is the same, lack of information on the topics mentioned. All these days we are trying, we MPs to point out to the general public the importance of preserving the environment and that everyone should make a contribution. If there are many of us who think so and a small individual contribution is great for the planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45775	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45776	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, submit an amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act underlines the importance of preserving sustainable ecological development. This should certainly be taken into account especially when it comes to amending laws relating to the regulation of a legal basis, i.e. for the making of a sublaw. The rules which would define exactly what will be checked in terms of compliance with environmental conditions by IPARD users, i.e. when an opportunity is created to use funds for new investments, what should be done and how to protect the environment. This is very important, because protecting the environment is the responsibility of each individual and the obligations of every factor in society, local self-government, economy, state institutions and everyone has a responsibility in the fight for a healthy environment. Unfortunately, awareness in our country is not satisfactory, but the government is currently dealing with this problem, first by establishing a special ministry that will deal with this area, applying and implementing EU legal flows in the field of environmental protection. It is about investing and equipping administrative capacities and what is very important about this topic is spoken and done from the aspect of the development and technological equipment of resources and in the system of education. So, this area that goes through all areas of social life must move forward with these challenges and it is clear that there will be a further topic when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to building, when we have more and more investment and when we are becoming economically stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45777	"Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45778	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the biggest problems facing today's global society is environmental and environmental concerns, and the national parks of the Republic of Serbia mean one of the highest forms of environmental protection. There are five national parks in Serbia, which are: Fruska Gora National Park, Đerdap, Tara, Kopalnik, Sar-planina. These are protected areas of exceptional natural and cultural historical importance. All climate change and most natural disasters are the result of a man's negative environmental impact. We've been hearing more and more stories about sustainable development lately, and unfortunately most of us don't even know what that means. To remind ourselves once again, sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present without questioning the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. How will the next generations meet their needs when most of us behave irresponsiblely? Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, the answer is very simple - if we continue to take advantage of nature without taking enough care of it, the next generation will find it difficult to survive. It is therefore necessary to rely on the use of renewable energy sources, i.e. sustainable energy sources, such as solar energy, wind energy, river energy, waves, heat energy, hydrospheres, biospheres, biomass, biogas, or biofuels. We all need to get away from ourselves, understand the importance of preserving ecosystems and environments and changing our bad habits. It's the only way we can protect nature, our children and our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45779	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45780	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr. Trivan, distinguished guests from the ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to the ecological heritage, so in that sense I will speak. On the basis of the positive legislative regulations of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Air Protection, the Regulation on Limited Emissions of Substances in Air, the Regulation on the Conditions of Monitoring and Quality of Air Requirements, as well as the needs of the Serbian State in the EU Association Procedure, in adaptation to the legislative regulation in Chapter 27 of the Implementation of the Project entitled "The Main Project for Monitoring of Emissions of Contaminating Substances from Energy Plants", the JKP City Heat Nis, with an assessment of the impact on Abbital Air, and he, to remind you, looks like this, which was done by the management of the City Heat of Nis, professional services and professors of the relevant universities. About the second project, also from City Heat Nis, "Examination of hydrothermal drilling within the city's Nis Circle", which also looks like this, I don't have time to talk. It is based on the implementation of equipment and an appropriate software package, which will enable centralised management of gas emissions produced by fuel combustion, which the City Heat Nis uses as energy, and in order to reduce emissions of polluting substances and combustion products. Since 1973, a system of organized district heating has been applied in Nis with 14 heat sources and three heat sources in 11 boiler rooms. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to talk to someone else about these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45781	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serb Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Filipovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45782	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the importance of this topic, the protection of the environment, I would say that in our media and in the public it is not so often spoken, which is a topic which is important for our citizens, for their future, I would say, for the future of our children and those generations who will live far after us in these areas, much more significant than politics and insults, as we could hear at the expense of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic and the SNS in previous days in discussions at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We must work far more on education when it comes to the environment, on youth education, on education, in this sense that generations that will take on the poor day's responsibility for the future of this country educate the importance of the environment and this topic for them and their children. It is, of course, necessary to allocate larger resources to protect the environment. All this is easy to say, it is necessary to create that money and I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member you are, is working hard on it and results are visible. Every day there is more money in the budget, and it is this dedicated and diligent work that has contributed to us today that we can be far more serious, more fundamentally committed to this issue, I say, unfortunately, only today may this issue be so, but in the future certainly far more. I am convinced that all the projects that have been discussed will achieve exactly the results we expect and that we will all be able to say together what I left for the end, which is that if we don't save the environment for our children, no one else will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45783	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Kovacevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45784	I thank you, Chairman. We discussed the importance of Chapter 27 of the environment and climate change, the importance of this chapter for both the EU and our country. We also talked about the challenges facing our country, but we also pointed out the necessity of providing financial resources so that it could progress faster and better in this area. That is why I would like to highlight the example of good practice, of course, related to the city of Nis. It's just that I have information from last week that a project committee adopted a project. It's a wastewater treatment plant. The project is worth 54m euros. It is a project to be financed from the IPA 2018 programme. Eighty-five per cent of these funds will be withdrawn from EU funds, and 15% will be guaranteed by the Republic. If this is not an example of good practice, then I don't know what an example of good practice is that we have to do quality projects and that way we can get funds from EU funds. The amendments and additions that are proposed in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act will allow us to use more resources and to make easier use of EU funds. So in Nis, a facility of two main collectors will be built. Up to it, individual city collectors will be reconstructed and several settlements will receive a sewage network. This is more than good news for our city. I would just like to go back to the period before 2012, when, unfortunately, the situation was very different and the situation was much worse in terms of environmental protection. I'm glad that since 2012 so here are the representatives of the SNS who have assumed power in Nis practically have a high-level consciousness. It's about protecting the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45785	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I apologize, Mr. Trivan has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45786	Let me just, please, in a few sentences. That's not what I wanted to say at the beginning of our days and hanging out here. Thank you for mentioning the city of Nis. First of all, by the power of the city of Nis, you achieve a lot of what you just said, and that is, of course, very important for the whole area and not just for Nis. It's a moment to say that these years, everyone together, so I'm not talking about the ministry, there's no ministry without co-operation with local self-government, like the case you mentioned, and it's being looked at in the next one. So in this year, we have launched 17 projects that are funded from IPA funds, and the value is about 40.5m euros, that we have bilateral donations worth 5.3m euros, and that our budget funds totalling over a billion dinars have been provided for these purposes, but that's not all. Let us also mention today the wastewater processing systems in Raskoj with 11m euros, Vrbas, Tower with fivem euros, Leskovac for the mud line and the main collector of over sevenm euros in total, Bruce, Blace with over 11m euros, Kraljev 17m euros and a primary separation in the separation of four municipal waste management regions with sevenm euros. So much so that we haven't done much in these years. Once again, thank you for your support for this huge job that is just ahead of us, and these are the figures that are now, and it will be even more, because the budget is getting better, as you said yourself, and what the struggle is now for us who are dealing with the environment is that just for the start of that money that green taxes and fees come to us, and that's our money, without these on the side, is already enough that we can run this whole chain that we're all talking about today and yesterday that we can make project-technical documentation. Here are the results and every story falls into the water.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45787	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mount Zlatar whose slopes rely on Nova Varoš, because of its Mediterranean and mountain climate, a large number of sunny days and healing air, was declared an air spa. The lush vegetation and the average altitude of 1,200 to 1,400 meters make the air of Zlatar extremely beneficial for treating cardio-vascular diseases. The dense forests, picturesque villages and specialties of local cuisine make Zlatar one of the most beautiful mountains in Serbia, suitable for all types of tourism – health, sports-recreative, rural, hunting and fishing. The municipality of Nova Varoš has invested large funds in co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia over the past few years to restore Zlatar Mountain to Serbia's tourist map. A large number of hotels have been opened, new ski resorts have been built, an adrenaline park has been built, sports grounds built, as well as a multi-functional balloon hall, in which more than 30 million dinars have been invested. This is not the end of investment in Zlatar Mountain, it is up to the construction of football field and cycling and hiking routes and the value of this investment will also be over 30 million dinars, and the funds are provided in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the municipality of Nova Varoš. The preservation of natural resources, as well as the improvement of their protection, with the exploitation of tourism potentials, will inevitably lead to the overall development of our country, as well as an increase in the standard of living of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45788	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45789	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, this Law on the Protection of the Environment and the proposed amendment, if you accept it, will contribute to the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of MPs and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The engine of this accelerated modernisation of Serbia is President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic. Dear People's MPs, we were charged here yesterday by the Alliance for the Failure of Serbia that we had muddled former Minister Oliver Dulic, called the Lionraiser of Palic in an attempt. I call on colleagues, honourable MPs from the alliance for Serbia's second downfall, because the first failure was while they were in DOS, to say whether it is true that former building minister Oliver Dulic, otherwise orthopedic, quoted -- paid posters and billboards with the message "Let's Clean Serbia" half a million euros? Complete quote, 2011 State Auditor's Report, published by "Politics", 22. 9th of January 2012. Is it true, respected DOS MPs, that former building minister Oliver Dulic, otherwise orthopede, paid for advertising in one daily newspaper 500,000 euros, completed a quote, a 2011 state auditor's report, and published "Politika" 22. 09. In 2012. Dear citizens, those who falsely accused us yesterday from the alliance for Serbia's second downfall, are not here today, as you can see, in this room. They're not in this high house on a regular basis. Dear citizens of Serbia, what are the names of those who do not do their job? Because in different parts of Serbia, they are called different, so that all the post-received citizens, you from all over Serbia, understand, are called – leszidovic, jabalebaroš, lufti butts and leeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45790	The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague of David's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45791	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the protection of the environment, I would like to point out one example of good practice in the municipality of Lazarec, from which I come, and this is a project to build a regional municipal waste dump "Kalenic". The project features an interregional project and covers 11 cities and municipalities. In addition to Lazarec, Lajkovac, Ub, Obrenovac, Mininica, LJig, Valjevo, Barajevo, Vladimirci, Koceljeva and Osecina are included. The regional dump "Kalenić" will be built on about 60 hectares of abandoned surface spears of the "Colubara - Tamnava-West Polje" mining base and will cover an area of about four thousand square kilometers, with a total of 370,000 inhabitants, where 330 tonnes of municipal waste would be put off daily. This project is in the national interest and in the best possible way, and a comprehensive waste management system will be established in accordance with European standards. In addition to building a three-carousel sanitary dump, it will be put into operation and three lines for secondary separation of the dry fraction of waste in Valjevo, Lazarjevac and Obrenovac. Also, the regional system "Kalenic" will include four transfer stations in Lazarevec, Obrenovac, Valjeva and Koceljeva. This project is important in terms of environmental, health and overall socio-economic components, because it solves one of the biggest problems facing the entire area. In the day to vote, the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45792	National MP Mihajlo Jokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Yokic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45793	Dear Ministers, or Ministers, honourable MPs, I would have one wish, Ministers – that when the first rain rains, your car and your associates come to Valjevska Loznica and then, from Valjevska Loznica, you go to Belgrade, via Ubb and realize how many quarrys there are, what the Valjevo-Belgrade road looks like at that moment, what the roads leading to that road look like, what the flora looks like. It's like snow, stone dust. You know that well, she's more dangerous than an atomic bomb. I'm surprised no one talked about the quarry problem today. I've heard them mention Valjevo, Valjevo, Valjevo several times, but I'm from Valjevo, too. The problem of Valjev is the quarrys that destroy within a circle of diameters perhaps two kilometers of all those who live there. Stone dust is death. On the other hand, infrastructure is being destroyed. You look at it and see how it collapses, how people's lives are threatened. So, that should be recorded, and you should see what compensation they're paying, like a mine rent, and I'm telling you it's neither 10th nor 100th of those obligations when you see that mining rent, say, in Europe or in the world. So, the problem with the citizens of Valjev must be dealt with urgently because the large territory of the city of Valjeva, the municipality of Lajkovac, of Ub municipality is threatened with these quarryes. These quarrys make a huge profit for those who have it. They make a commitment, they fill the budget, and they pay as much as they pay, so it says, as they estimate. So they estimate they've done so much and so much...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45794	I thank my colleague Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45795	In order to assess that, people have to be professional and that's why I'm telling you in the end...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45796	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45797	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, certainly the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment has a positive impact on the flora and fauna and contributes to the preservation and development of the overall Republic of Serbia. The ultimate protection of the environment and legal regulation that is changing from day to day, and given the enormous environmental challenges, is the key task of your ministry and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The sustainable development of a society is impossible to imagine without sustainable ecology. I'd be going to the UN here, on the 2030 Agenda. It is the Agenda that is present today in all the congregations in the world. When we talk about it, then we talk about providing sanitary conditions and drinking water, target six. We are talking about sustainable and relevant sources of modern energy, the urgent need to address climate problems, attitude 13. I can talk about attitude 15, attitude 16, but the bottom line is that in the sustainable development of our planet Earth, the UN says it's five points in the field of ecology. Reform action in the field of normative actions, clear, secure, sustainable sources of funding, I would add available to everyone, clear, complete and simple control of the implementation of normative acts, certainly makes one society in the field of ecology acceptable and different compared to others. When we talk about ecologicalism today, we talk about agriculture, we talk about finance, and these are the components of the same story, they're directly connected. We're speaking indirectly of health, education, and one society can't actually advance, grow, develop, if these five foundations of a society don't work. That is why, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or you as the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, it makes everything seem that these five foundations look better for generations to come. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45798	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45799	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, last time we discussed the amount in the budget set for this ministry and the analysis of whether it is much or little should be taken from how these funds will be used. If someone says it's small, when it's used a little smartly and in the direction of development, we'll get a lot. Once again, what did Alexander Vukic find when he inherited Serbia before bankruptcy? It's all been a little bit. With the right investment, we've done a lot of things. What was worth to a yellow team that could have had some figure and an item in the environmental budget, when, for example, the ministry with Minister Dulic, which dealt with this portfolio, say, for the purposes of archiving and storing e-mail messages, hired a private firm and paid 3,646,000 dinars? Imagine the need for a private company to keep the e-mails of the government's authority. People pick them, pay them to do their job, and then they hire a private firm, which also the people pay to do their job. Only one conclusion can be drawn, for the people and for Serbia they had no time, they had some more pressing work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45800	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45801	Thank you. I have made an amendment to Article 3. The bill, in order to point out the importance of environmental education in order to preserve nature and impact on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. So in the last 20 years, we've been facing the consequences of the global environmental crisis, we're facing the consequences of the use of natural resources, of the pollution of the earth, of the air. We are also facing global climate change, and hence, there is also great importance in environmental education for the preservation and protection of the environment. When it comes to environmental education, it has always been present in the education system, but in the last few years it has been much more pronounced. Also, I want to take this opportunity to mention the government of the Republic of Serbia's actions on cleaning up riverbeds, parks, etc. The aim of such actions is a great response of public figures, because politicians, actors, singers have a great influence and are a role model for young and adults, and it all affects the awakening of people's awareness of the importance of the environment and the importance of preserving the environment itself. One such action was carried out on June 5th, on the occasion of World Environment Day, where cleaning the banks of the Sava River was organized. The action was led by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ana Brnabic, and many ministers, you sir, then, Finance Minister Mr Sinisa Mali, Health Minister Zlatibor Lončar, many state secretaries, assistants, etc. The aim of this action is to actually convey messages to young people, but also to adults that cleaning up their environment is not a shame. In fact, it's a shame to pollute your environment and it's a shame to throw garbage in places where it's not allowed. All that we have achieved in the past six years and together with environmental protection actions once again confirms that Serbia is on the right track today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45802	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Cokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45804	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, almost no area, when it comes to environmental protection, without mentioning it at this session. I think all the discussions were well-intentioned for you, too. What we don't seem to have mentioned in enough ways, not treated, but mentioned, it's aero-pollution, what's your favorite theme. So, how to reduce the number of cars, mostly diesel cars, which are major pollutants. Let's not forget, the contaminants that are individual are also these new tools that are now being used, which are trimmers, motor saws. It directly poisons whoever works with him, because they're using so-called. Mixtures like combustion. We have to fight it the way we can because I'll say it, you probably know it, and I'll tell those who haven't found out yet. You know, they're in the west very mood and aggressively trying to solve it, get electric cars into the city center. How they can't do that, the Germans are making large parking lots on the city's periphery to get as many train residents into the city as possible, thus reducing pollution and discharging the environment. There are a lot of jobs ahead of you. Set priorities, you have our support, and there will certainly be some passing time to ask and see what we have done and we as members of the Committee and you as Minister and all those in that area... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45805	The word has a Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45806	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I am aware that I will be the victim of the past condition, and I do not speak with bitterness, on the contrary. So, simply the state of the environment is abandoned. I've been talking about dozens of years and, well, so much about it, but I enjoy making every effort together with this wonderful team of people who I'm leading to move something, and that's possible, and everyone before me has really moved something. I just wish it was us who moved the most. When it comes to air, there is no dilemma that this is one of the most illogical issues of our environment and our health. I'm not going to repeat those terrible figures about the number of people who get hurt a year because of poor air quality. What's important is to say, which is that I'm really going to insist on everything that both electricity and energy bring to you in itself, and to prevent that from happening. It's a lot of traffic. With that famous 130-thousand-thousand number of vehicles we import annually, you can imagine what the quality of these vehicles are and with the euro three etc. So that's actually something we can't allow. I don't agree with that at all, no matter what anyone thinks about it. Next week we're going to form, I call it the Air Protection Committee, and I'm calling it the Air Quality Care Committee, where we're going to bring together a lot of different experts who are dealing with this topic to help ourselves, to see which directions we're going to include, because ourselves without energy, traffic, finance, we can't do it all by ourselves, but we have the identification of the situation and we're very determined to change this situation, and we're very determined to induce local self-government to start decommissioning individual boilers, to make the electricity industry take care of what's emitting our atmosphere, to change energies, because that's possible. The world already knows that and, of course, when it comes to traffic and citizens, to try to find money for some kind of stimulation or subsidy, to get more and more involved, or to buy hybrid electric cars. There are already a million in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45807	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45808	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the amendment and addition of the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Article 3 The draft law proposes the addition of the law in a way to add Article 101a, which provides for a legal basis for the creation of a sublaw, a regulation which would define exactly what will be checked by the IPARD user, which means that users who exercise the right to IPARD incentivise from the area of agriculture and rural development are obliged to meet the appropriate environmental protection conditions. Through the discussion, I would like to mention the Pcinje Valley, the area of exceptional features located in southern Serbia, at the border with Macedonia, on the territory of the Bujanovac municipality. The protected area is bounded by the slopes of Staračka Kula and the slopes of Kozjak Mountain, while the central part of the river Pcinj is run by the central part, and next to which is the Prohor Pcinjski monastery, which dates back to the 11th century. The area covered by the protected area of the Pcinje Valley is 2,606 hectares. Although per the amount of water the river Pcinj represents one of the poorest tributaries of Vardar is listed as the purest rivers in Serbia. There is an extremely rare species of trout in the Pcinja River. With this in mind, the protection of this water supply should be focused on preserving the quality of water, exploring its living world, and on finding the best solutions to mitigate the negative impacts that degrade this space with their activities. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the amendment and addition of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45809	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45810	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, to Article 3. I have tabled an amendment adding a new member and a new position 3, which encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to improving the ecological heritage. Explaining my previous amendment, I was talking about that the town of Užice, from which I come, has serious problems with air pollution, especially in winter conditions, and one reason is the existence of some 16,000 individual boiler rooms in the area of the town of Užica. In order to improve air quality and environmental protection, especially in winter conditions, the town of Užice has spent the last 20 years conducting continuous air quality monitoring within the state and local network of measuring stations at seven locations in the city. The analysis of air monitoring data from the Environmental Protection Agency found that the air quality of the third category was unfortunately characterised as excessively polluted air. Addressing the problem of disrupted air quality, the city has been carrying out various measures and activities for years. From 2010 until now, 66% of the total capacity of the city's heating boiler plants that have used coal or lubricating until now have been converted, and are now using gas as the primary energy. Since the remaining boiler rooms do not have technical possibilities for conversion, it is planned to build a new capacity boiler room of 36 megawatts that will use gas as energy, which will replace the capacity of the unconverted part of the system and enable the connection of an additional number of users to the pipeline. The project documentation for this boiler room is currently under way. In addition to a number of other activities, in line with the obligations prescribed by the Air Protection Act, the city also made a short-term action plan and a air quality protection plan. The plans shall contain measures to be taken in the short and long term to achieve established limit values when it comes to air pollution levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45811	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45812	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Chapter 27 - the environment and climate is one of the most complex and complex chapters in the negotiation process and covers a third of the legal flows of the EU, which imposes the need for a clear national policy, especially in the area of financial planning and implementation dynamics. By its nature, the environment exceeds the political and legal frameworks and borders created by man, thus cross-border co-operation within the EU, as well as cooperation between the EU and the rest of the world are essential if we want to address the challenges that affect all of us. All countries in our region must act in harmony with nature, because this is the only way to save the environment of degradation and thus ensure sustainable economic business. Only by common forces can we protect the environment that directly affects ours and the health and quality of life of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45813	The 3rd amendment was submitted by Dalibor Radcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45814	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 3. I tried to point out the importance of environmental protection, as well as the preservation and improvement of sustainable environmental development. Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present, unquestioning the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Sustainable development implies a balance between resource consumption and the ability to restore natural systems. That this is a serious problem and that it is already seriously being dealt with is showing us the activities taken by the utility service company in Aleksinca. The waste disposal dump, which was based on Belgrade highway – Nis on Corridor 10, has been successfully closed and is currently working on forming a green belt. The mockery that was right next to the highway turns into a green oasis and by their own means, they invested 20,000,000 in the closure of the existing dump and the opening of a new modern tape with respect to all environmental standards and environmental protection. They also invested 30,000,000 in necessary equipment, separator, loader, trucks. In total, 50,000 dinars were invested from their own resources and all this was invested by the company that was taken over as a loser in 2012. This is another example of how anything can be done if the right people are in the leading places. Only in this way can we preserve the natural beauty of our country and give it to future generations for further use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45815	Ambassador Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45816	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 3. I propose to add a new position 3 to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which adds the name of a member and member of 101, which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the maintenance of conditions in national parks." Ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out in previous talks, it is very important to pay particular attention to environmental awareness and environmental protection in order to develop the Republic of Serbia. It is our desire to be a modern, developed and regulated EU member and with the measures of this law that we are certainly moving forward towards that membership. I mentioned the importance of preserving national parks. Serbia, which is included in the European Federation of National Parks, besides Đerdap, Tara, Fruske Gora, Kopalnik and Sar Mountains, has many natural beauty that needs to be preserved as well as five national parks. By regulating waste control, waste management and other environmental values, we gain a chance to significantly increase the revenue side with a larger flow of money than tourism. Amendments and additions to the Law will allow the use of the Green Fund's resources. This will set conditions for more efficient planning and security for the implementation of the project that will be financed. Establishing a more regulatoryly simple procedure, but also criteria based on acts brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am sure that environmental protection and environmental development levels will be on a growing scale year by year. I am convinced that years are coming when we will talk about this and similar topics much more than today, and this will also be an indication that society is developing and going in the right direction towards the family of European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45817	National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45818	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposed amendment refers to the preservation of protected natural resources, so in this context I want to say something about the correlation between the protection of natural goods and the development of tourism. Protected is a well-preserved part of the nature of specific natural values and features that have a lasting ecological, scientific, cultural, educational, health-recreative, touristic and other significance. The Republic of Serbia is characterized by a considerable wealth of flora and fauna, especially endemic rare plants and animals, as well as specific ecosystems, thanks primarily to the geographical position on the Balkan Peninsula, relief, climate and complex history of the living world. On the other hand, the development of tourism and a whole series of economic activities has a number of positive effects on the economy and prosperity of the country's and region's tourist resort. At the same time, however, it changes the physionomy of the developing environment, producing not only positive but certain negative changes. Tourism like other industries affects the quality of the environment as a consumer of natural and other resources, land, water, fuel, electricity and food, but also as a producer of significant waste and emissions. The negative impacts of tourism on the environment are expressed through pressure on natural resources, living world and habitats, as well as the creation of waste and pollution. Tourism has a great interest in maintaining the quality of the environment at a high level, so a clean and healthy environment is an extremely important assumption of its successful development. The positive effects of tourism in relation to the environment are seen in the fact that it is a work that seeks to make adequate use of natural resources, improve the area and maintain environmental, economic and socio-cultural values of the local community. For these reasons, the priority objective is for all competent authorities to strike a balance between the development of tourism and the protection of the environment and to enable human and natural environment contact.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45819	National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45820	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, should not specifically mention how much developed awareness of environmental protection has a positive impact on quality development in all areas of social life. I come from the municipality that needs to take special care of it, the municipality of Raška, which includes the largest part of the Kopalnik National Park, a good part of the Park of Nature, Goli and Josianska Banja. If we add that the most significant cultural and historical monuments in Serbian history or on the territory of Raška municipality or in its immediate vicinity are not to be particularly stressed as to how much we should work on the fact that what nature has given us is preserved and passed on to future generations. I want to praise the efforts of local leadership to endure these principles, realistically this is quite difficult, because of inherited problems, especially in the Kopalnik National Park, but the policy of pushing problems under the carpet is the past, and catching up and solving problems our present. The joint funds of the EU, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Municipality of Raška have begun to implement a project to build wastewater collectors and waste water treatment plants. The value of the investment is about 11m euros and you, Mr. Minister, have laid the foundation stone for the construction of the facility. Of course, perhaps the biggest problem awaits us, we are not running away from it, we have made contact with a few Israeli firms that use the most modern methods for storage and processing of waste water, in order to solve the problem of waste water in Kopalnik National Park, which has the most modern winter resort in Serbia. Here we expect your support, you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have no doubt that the support will be lagging behind, because if realistically taken into account, the winter tourism centre located within the National Park is the motto of tourism development in the Republic of Serbia. We need to find a measure that satisfies the development of the infrastructure of a modern winter resort, without jeopardising the protection zone of the Kopalnik National Park and you know that it is not easy at all, but we have taken responsibility to solve this programme and the municipality of Raška, along with your ministry and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, will solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45821	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45822	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, we were in Raska, you said ourselves to invest 11 million at this point in what you said, but I was actually just going to say that when you have such agile leadership in the municipality that is ready to open the biggest problems you've ever mentioned, so the question of waste water, drinking water, the issue of sewerage, the issue of waste water in the Kopalnik and the Kopalnik National Park, as one of the most illogical points that have just been touched, is what here must be praised. So it's not hard to get close to an agile executive's hand, who wants to open up problems and who obviously knows how to do it. I noticed there, in fact, other than agility there is harmony between you who live and work there, especially leadership, I welcome it, I support it, and I say that you will have our unreserved help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45823	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, MEP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45824	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members, at the beginning of my presentation, I would just like to congratulate the opening of the Faculty of Agriculture in Kruševec, i.e. obtaining a work permit. Finally, Mr. Bratislava Gasic's vision, who was the president of the Kruševac municipality at the time, had a vision of opening up such a high school facility, achieved and I want, of course, a success in the work and education of future intellectuals, who will also be involved in protecting the environment. The amendment I have made concerns exactly the funds related to IPARD funds, that is, some of the provisions concerning that particular environmental protection. The funds from IPARD funds, so far, have been able to use exclusively registered agricultural enterprises, i.e. already the funds from IPARD funds can be used by entrepreneurs, as well as by agricultural cooperatives, which is very interesting. As regards these some current changes, which are precisely those from IPARD funds, the current changes specify the terms of use of funds, and it is proposed that the provisions concerning environmental protection are precisely specified, i.e. to require that certain conditions be met in people applying to IPARD funds, which is very important, I would point out very important precisely because of these factors which may have a negative impact, if people are dealing with these very certain treatments, if some slaughterhouses are planned, milkers etc. All these by-products, which can be created, to be taken care of in an adequate way. As for these certain acts that must be obtained, it is precisely those people who are applying for IPARD funds that obtain confirmation from the Ministry's competent authority that the conditions concerning environmental protection are met and I am just stressing that it is very important and that I do not think that this law would be adequate without it, precisely for those reasons... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45825	Time, thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45826	I thank the president. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, my amendment refers to the expansion of environmental education. We are certainly witnessing that environmental education is not only carried out through educational institutions, i.e. schools, preschools, colleges, but also that an expansion of environmental education can be done in another way. A good example from practice is local self-government where I come from, Sokobanja, where SNS has managed to finance from the local self-government budget since it came to power in 2016, so within two years. This festival is otherwise international, it deals with tourism and environmental film. This year, more than 40 eco and tourism films took part in this event, and out of them 40, 13 entered the competition category. I am particularly pleased with the fact that this year's first award was made to Petar Lalovic, for a special contribution to raising the ecological awareness of the film, which was handed by the daughter of late director Petar Lalovic, Ivon, actor and journalist Dejan Djurovic. This is one of the events that certainly helps to develop and awaken the ecological consciousness, and this should not be stopped, should be done further, but visitors to this festival had opportunities to see natural beauty not only of Sokobanja, but also of our only natural pyramids, i.e. Mount Rtanj. Since this village of Vrmca is just below Mount Rtanj. Certainly, Serbia is full of natural beauty and thank God, in every area we should only safeguard these natural beauty and enjoy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45827	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45828	Thank you, President. I have submitted to Article 3 of Amendment 3, which adds point 3 to the sustainability of the development of ecological development. In preparing for the interpretation of Amendment 3, I have based on certain issues that have not been sufficiently defined in the previous law and as such have been singled out and have shown the need to supplement certain members, i.e. by further defining individual members. Article 3 provides for the addition of the law in a way that adds Article 101a, which provides for a legal basis for the production of a sublegal act, a regulation which would define exactly what will be checked by the IPARD user. The proposed provision allows the issuing of acts by the ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks which determine the fulfilment of the conditions in the field of environmental protection and thus participate in the competition for the award of funds from IPARD funds. It is known that agriculture is the world's largest environmental pollutant, primarily because of the use of chemical resources used to protect plants. This is a serious problem, and as such it should be understood. Why do I say that? It's precisely to ensure that enough food is produced, not just for us right now, but for future generations. It is necessary to change agricultural practice, i.e. modify it so that it becomes sustainable over a long period of time. Above all, it is necessary to bring the Environmental Protection Act into line with laws and regulations governing the change of environmental impacts in the EU, and it is necessary for natural resource users to be educated and informed in detail about the importance of the same and the consequences of their reckless exploitation. By respecting standards and adequate rules in agricultural production, it enables new markets to be conquered with increased consumer confidence. Then there is greater transparency of products and processing, more equal inclusion in the world market, as well as an increase in... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45829	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Igor Becic. He's not here. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. He's not here. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Parliament of Stanislav Janosevic. Does he want a word? Dr Dragana Barisic submitted a letter to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45830	I thank the esteemed president. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, as well as a colleague who spoke earlier, I can congratulate the Kruševljani, my Kruševljani at the Faculty of Agriculture who is starting to work. This was suspected by those in the alliance for Serbia's destruction, on the contrary and accused us, but as Bratislava Gasic promised several years ago, all that was promised was fulfilled and here is Kruševac can boast a lot of things. You have already been to Kruševec and you know how beautiful Kruševac is and how many Kruševljani are fighting for the environment to be the way it should be in all of Serbia. Otherwise, in addition to the water treatment plant, the 14m-euro investment, which is largely under construction, the town of Kruševac has attracted others with a responsible policy, as I say, foreign companies and other investments, thus signing a business-technical co-operation agreement with the German organisation for international co-operation, thus giving the town of Kruševac more than 280 containers for recycling waste. Which means we're really fighting for the environment to be even healthier, because we're thinking about our children and we're not the kind of people who just use attacks and accidents to get attention. We work for the benefit of citizens, citizens recognize it and appreciate our policy, hence the great support we have. What I can say is that the laws are exceptional and that we will support them in the voting day and that we will continue to advocate and work exclusively for our citizens, for their benefit and for the benefit of all of us. I thank you, and I want every good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45831	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45832	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, we all need to be tasked with working to protect and preserve the environment and there is no dilemma. It's especially important that we educate our youngest, our children in this area, and I hope it's not too late for us, either. However, some past events remind us, especially in 2014 when the full irresponsibility of the authorities in Šapec was demonstrated. For years ago, the city government and the town administration of Šapca put off unplanned waste on the coast of Sava, 200 to 300 meters away from the strict center of the town of Šapca. It's over a thousand tons of waste, and for more than a decade, no channel in the territory of the town of Šapca has been cleaned. Also, in 2014, we all remember, he threatened a huge shock wave on the Sabbath, a flood. Thanks to the then prime minister, Aleksandra Vukic, the Republika Srpska Army and a large number of citizens, especially Sapca, but also volunteers from all over Serbia, the town of Sabac has been defended. If people of the Sabbath government had asked themselves then, and first of all, the double minister, Dusan Petrovic, Sabac, and not only Sabac, would have swam in water and hundreds of tons of waste, and I don't want to say any further what that would mean. Thanks to, I say again, to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's military and citizens, volunteers who have come to defend Sabac, only a warning remains, but should not be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45833	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Mother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45834	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers and Associates, today and in previous days, we've talked about how many states, i.e. State authorities, as many regional authorities as local self-government, cities and municipalities can affect the improvement of the environment. We talked about how much resources were allocated to different areas of environmental science and plans for the future, which we all hope will be better in terms of environmentals than in the current state of Serbia. We also talked about other things, but what a special accent needs to be put on is certain, not only what the state authorities are doing to improve ecology, but what we as individuals mean, not as MPs, not as ministers, but all of us as citizens, what we do to preserve what we have around us and whether we are responsible enough for the environment. Commission Implementing Regulation Kikinda was declared the cleanest city in Serbia at the Ecology Fair, but we continue, regardless of being declared the cleanest city, we have a problem with illegal dumps, with illegal treewood. We have, in 2017, a situation that nobody, we don't have a single application for illegal tree cutting and the question is, who are we protecting with this? What would be said in our people, no one will be a titi, but we know what great effort it takes to plant for now and how long it takes, and I say, in 2017, we do not have any applications. It is enough to walk not far from the congregation to see that even today in the 21st century people continue to dump garbage on the street. We rarely meet those on the roads, who throw trash out the window. That's already, you might say, a rooted problem. What to do with something older, whether to increase sanctions, it's already a question of dilemma. But certainly, young generations need... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45835	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45836	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, my colleague Majkic spoke in the debate yesterday about shaming and I absolutely support her discussion, which represents a solution to the devastationed forests. I will base myself on eastern Serbia and cause eternal consequences for our natural well-being. In eastern Serbia, 40% of the territory is under the woods, and we are faced with a frightening scene that remains behind the forest thieves. Irregular deforestation is a problem that gets bigger every year. A criminal act – forest theft, is the most common work compared to all other acts against the environment. The damage that is caused, which is impossible to stop, such as hydrological disorder, erosion, oxygen deficiency, are just some of the reasons why we have to deal with this. It's not easy to solve this problem at all. These are large areas and it is impossible at any time to have a review of the situation on the ground, requires a lot of people, lots of vehicles, lots of machinery and equipment. But what's positive is that citizens in the last few years have reported woodwork a lot more often. The number of criminal charges filed has doubled, however, this still does not solve the problem. Penalties for this work were increased in 2016, however, are still not proportionate to the consequences that this work continues to cause. I sincerely hope that we will soon impose a commitment to get off solid fuels as soon as possible to alternative energies, especially when it comes to city heat. We may thus be able to cut down and cut down forests, or illegal forest cutting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45837	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here's my colleague, Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45838	I thank the chairman. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. With these changes, we made a commitment to the users of IPARD funds to meet certain conditions of environmental protection before they could get money from these funds. The IPARD programme is the most significant pre-accession support programme for farmers and has been approved by all EU members. The main objective and purpose of this programme is to help farmers, as well as all citizens of rural areas of the Republic of Serbia, gradually raise their capacities and potentials in order to prepare themselves in a timely manner to meet European standards and laws in the area of agriculture, food industry and environmental protection. What is important for these programmes to be available to farmers by 2020 is as much as 229m euros of grants, which is really serious money, and now farmers are going to have to meet certain ecological conditions that are necessary on our path to EU membership, because we need to open Chapter 27, and in order to close this chapter we need to meet certain ecological conditions. It is precisely the purpose of this legal provision to do so. I have to mention what we've done in the field of environmental protection in Novi Sad since the mayor's head, Milos Vukevic, I'll only mention part of it. Indeed, a lot has been done, for example in suburban settlements, in the suburban village of Rumenka we have done six kilometers of fecal sewers and a wastewater purifier worth as much as 136 million dinars. In Stepanovic, we also finished the whole fecal sewer and did another wastewater purifier worth 96 million dinars. In Kovil, we made as many as 40 kilometers of sewerage nets and finished a 190 million dinar purifier. In Begec, we also finished a complete sewerage network, and we also made one purifier worth as much as 221 million dinars. Most importantly, Milo Vučević and the city government in Novi Sad did this without the debt dinars, all from the city budget, while our predecessors, before 2012, worked sewers in debt to the city for 35 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45839	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of richinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45840	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, today is October 11th, the day of Leskovec City, and this occasion I wish to congratulate the citizens, my Leskovci and Mayor Dr Goran Cvetanovic, this jubilee. Today I'm going to talk about the third benefit and resources owned by Leskovci, ecological. In addition to the central wastewater treatment plant, next to the regional sanitary dump “Zeljkovac”, on the surface accumulation of Barja and the water treatment and treatment plant “Gorina”. About 30km from Leskovec, in the upper flow of the Veternica River, a multi-purpose artificial accumulation of Barja was built, which was defined as a key object of the future Jablanic water system that will develop as part of the lower South Sea regional water supply system. The dam and accumulation of Barje today serves the water supply of the population and the economy of the town of Leskovec, protection of Leskovec from floods, improving the quality of the water of the river Veternica in the minor periods, accepting and retaining the application, and there is the possibility of using the hydroenergy potential of dam and accumulation. From the accumulation, the town of Leskovac and 75 settlements, with about 150,000 inhabitants, are supplied with healthy drinking water. The total capacity of the water treatment plant is 840 litres per second, which meets the needs of the citizens and the economy of Leskovec. Unlike some towns in Serbia, the citizens of Leskovec, uninterrupted, have high quality drinking water on their taps, whose health regularity is daily controlled by competent institutions. Realisation of projects financed from donations under the KfV project in Leskovac defined the dynamics of investment in the city's water system, Leskovec. By 2022, all settlements for which there is an economic justification should be connected to the water supply system from the water treatment plant Gorina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45841	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirko Krlić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The least controversial should be this law, as far as politics are concerned, but here today in the form of parliamentary issues, regardless of my explanation yesterday, we have an on-call bankruptcy director who continues to spread a false story about taking away a volunteer country in Banat Karadjordev. This is a particularly sensitive issue because of the very way in which the country is acquired. I continue to wonder what interest it is to sow evil blood among the complex, honest and solid residents of Karadjordjev, whose grandfathers left the American dream and with American citizenship came to fight for Serbia's freedom and 50% left the bones in the Cayman. It is a decision, I repeat again, on the commission made in 2011, which no one had implemented until the municipality of Zitiste reached the hands of the SNS. She's having a funeral today. I'll be quick. The aim is to build up properties, build bay systems and roads through the Ataras, in order to reach financial resources, including from these funds mentioned in this article of the law and move on to more modern agricultural production. No one was transferred from one atom to another without signing it, no one complained about a joint investment of 2.1% of the gulf systems. The comcommissioning plan was completely public. Of the 1,050, there were only 50 complaints, participants were able to express their wishes in writing. The information is received by this constituency group, which is available in every village, whose field has been moved seven metres away. Moved, not taken. Even he has the right to appeal to the ministry and has the right to trial. Therefore, the only link between this party's bankruptcy manager and this new "union for everything and everything" with environmentalism is that it stems from the recycling of political personnel, political waste, failed political parties in Serbia. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45843	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45844	Thank you, Your Honor. I will speak in one specific way about sustainable development, especially as a royal. I use the moment and the opportunity to congratulate my fellow citizens one great day, the day we've been waiting for for many decades. When I say many decades, it's decades before I was born, and I was born not so soon, it was a long time ago. About 70 years ago, construction of the Magnochrom factory was built. Today, we experienced the beginning of construction of a new factory, Leoni, after 70 years in the King. I want my fellow citizens to have more of these factories in the next period. I am particularly pleased to know that in the following year hardworking people of road corridors will begin to realise the project Moravski Corridor, that the issue and the opening of Morava-ships for civil traffic will finally be resolved. I'm filled with pleasure and pride because I was in a group of people who had a vision 10 years ago, had a mission and had a goal. That goal is slowly achieved, but that achievement would not be if it weren't for one man, one man to whom we owe everything, one great man, both in our physical predisposition and in great proportions. I remember the time when he helped the royals the same way, when after the earthquake we made, and many in this room helped build seven houses in the King. I remember this great man when he made three wishes for a boy of nine while he was waiting for a roof over his head, provided him with a basket behind that house, provided him with his favorite club uniform, and provided him with a parrot. That big man is Alexander Wolf. Thank him for everything he's done. Some won't be pleased, but actions speak. The works speak, and everything else is fog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45845	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45846	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, and it reads - Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which adds the name of a member and a member of the 101st Act on the Protection of the Environment, adds a new position 3 which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to improving sustainable environmental development." Article 3 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the environment is complemented by the law by adding, after Article 101, a new member of 101, which prescribes that users who exercise the right to IPARD are encouraged by agriculture and rural development in the obligation to meet the relevant environmental protection conditions, as well as that the competent minister and minister responsible for agricultural and rural development tasks agree on the conditions to be met by IPARD users. This sub-legislative act would define exactly what will be checked for IPARD users, since the applicable environmental protection regulations did not provide for conditions in the field of environmental protection for agricultural land, for which reasons it was not possible to issue an act on compliance with the conditions. For these reasons, and for reasons of legal arrangements in the procedure of applying this law and the law in the field of agriculture, that area shall be regulated because of the declared need for precision and for the achievement of better compliance between certain provisions of the law and thus to provide inspection supervision and to create a legal basis for the exercise of that supervision. The Serbian Progressive Party will always go from the need and obligation to preserve, protect and improve the environment for future generations as responsible members of society, to make production sustainable, and to improve the quality of life in order to improve overall.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45847	Bring it to the end, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45848	In voting day, I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45849	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Compirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45850	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the biggest problems facing today's global society is environmental and environmental concerns. Nature warns us every day. We are the ones who have to take care of how we treat the planet Earth that is our home. What kind of chaos would happen in our house if we didn't throw waste into the bins and not clean the yard? People only remember nature when they benefit from it, exploit it, and use the natural resources that are limited. The trees give oxygen, and every year hectares and hectares of forest disappear. That's why we as ordinary people need to go from ourselves, understand the importance of saving ecosystems and environments, change our harmful habits and protect nature, our children, ourselves, protect planet Earth. I come from an environment that thanks to its natural characteristics, diverse flora and fauna, also declared the first ecological municipality in the region. Our area of Kosovo and Metohija, otherwise it can be praised by the great natural resources and great effort to maintain them, as well as by keeping us in these areas, invests and makes up our President Aleksandar Vucic, which is also mentioned by his visit to Kosovo and Metohija on 8 and 9 September and large investments that he has invested in the maintenance of Lake and Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Gazivod. Opening of the Centre for Ecology and Sport Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45851	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45852	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving the conditions of flora and fauna. The greatest wealth that can be inherited from its ancestors is not material goods, but in the first place a healthy genetic basis, but also a healthy environment. That's why every single person has to, and society in general, be aware of how important it is that we don't pollute or destroy it. Only in this way will we provide the offspring with health that are directly affected by the conditions of life on our planet. For the sake of stability of the ecological system, we must protect all existing and plant and animal species that live in our environment. The use of the funds of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia is carried out in accordance with the law, the national environmental protection programme and the strategic documents, as well as the list of priority infrastructure projects in the area of the environment. I'm glad that on the list of priorities are re-cultivation and recovery of historical pollution, protection and conservation of biodiversity, wild flora and fauna, including active measures to protect the population and maintain habitats. Let's clean each one of our own backyards and cut down our abandoned grandfatherland, and we'll be better off. It's not greener in Switzerland, it's punishable when it's not cut, 800 francs, and in eight days later, the penalty is 4,000 francs. Imagine if someone punished a Serb for not cutting down a meadow with 50,000 dinars, what a reaction that would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45853	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. My colleague Vukojičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45854	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, my amendment to the bill refers to the maintenance of protected natural goods. Before I go with the amendment, I must point out that coordinated policies are very important for success in every area of human life. This is specifically about harmonised and coordinated policies between the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Agriculture, and when it comes to the access of IPARD funds, first of all, farmers, farmers, agricultural cooperatives and other legal and natural persons who have the right to use these funds. Of course, the issue of environmental protection, and hence the issue of protecting natural resources, is not just a matter of ministries, but of each of us as individuals, as parents, as neighbours, as teachers, as teachers, as professors, as teachers. One word, it's a question of society. I hope that the improvement of the environment, and in particular protected natural resources, will also contribute to bilateral co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, particularly in the area of deforestation related to the prevention of climate change. I must point out that in 2014, when he took over as Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, the number one priority put the citizens' interest in achieving the best interests of citizens, he set the principles of teamwork, the principles of responsibility, coordination and ultimately the result. These principles continued to respect the government of Ana Brnabic, and as a result of all this we have Serbia's progress in all areas, and thus progress in the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45855	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45856	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, at any moment we should be aware of the importance of a healthy environment. We must be aware that by our actions we can contribute to the preservation of the environment, our environment, even our own lives. Each of us individually needs to contribute to the awakening of consciousness in people when it comes to ecology and environmental protection. A healthy environment is the basis for preserving human existence. The nature that surrounds us is filled with harmful matter, often caused by human negligence and carelessness. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 3 of this Act by adding Article 3 is further defined by Article 3 with a specific reference to the improvement of ecosystems. In the past few years, according to the minister, more than 700 hectares of surface area have been forested. This year, four and a half million dinars have been identified for Stara Paz for this purpose, which will certainly contribute to the conservation and promotion of ecosystems. This year, two million dinars were allocated from the Stara Paz municipality's budget for the realisation of software activities concerning the management and protection of the environment, primarily of shaming, and in addition, certain funds have been identified for the implementation of the activities of the association in the territory of Stara Paz municipality dealing with environmental protection. It's only when we realize ourselves that preserving the environment is important for ourselves and for the quality of life that our children will live, that things can change for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45857	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45858	I thank the chairman. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates and respected colleagues, the provision of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of the conditions for indigenous species. This law regulates a system of environmental health that ensures human rights to life and development in a healthy environment and balances the relationship of economic development and the environment. Environmental protection is the basic fluid of modern society, that is, Chapter 27, which we have opened, which is most demanding, most expensive in the EU programme. It's the preservation of our environment, it's the preservation of biodiversity of protected natural goods and landscapes. Without a change in the state of consciousness, it will not be possible to change the state of the environment, diversity and wealth of the living world of each country is a planetary value. Each of us needs to contribute and protect endangered types of indigenous. The most famous endemic species of Serbia, indigenous, is Pancic's submarine, which was found in 1855. Pancic found it in the Bays in 1875. This is the living fossil of the world's flora and presents a riddle to scientists because it survived the Ice Age. Because of their looks, they call her a beauty. On Fruška Gora, which is the treasure of a rare and beautiful plant world, we have 1500 species of plants, 700 of which are medicinal and 69 indigenous. I would just like to look back on two Balkan beauties, Raymond, one of them is "Ramond's Servica" and the other one is "the birth of Raymond", which is addressed to Queen Natalia, because it belongs to Nis. They call it a phoenix flower that is very important to the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45859	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, with the aim of further defining Article 3. I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which reads - the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of ecosystems. The IPARD 2 fund allows potential users to invest in agriculture, which will certainly ensure development and increase the assets of agricultural holdings. The funds as a form of pre-accession aid for rural development are intended for the cultivation, production and processing of food and agricultural production, will significantly increase investment investments and improve the position of our agricultural producers. All these investments must meet the prescribed conditions of environmental protection, so the adoption of an act laying down the fulfilment of the conditions of protection, which is in fact the basis for the right to these funds at all. Uncontrolled investments can cause a number of changes in certain parts of the ecosystem and disrupt the environment, difficult to endanger, above all, human health, as well as the survival of plant and animal species. With this bill, we from the SNS show responsibility to our farmers and our agricultural land, but also to all our citizens by raising the level of environmental protection, which is a question of the quality of our lives and the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45861	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45862	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the objection of our opposition to you is, in my opinion, to be dealt with as political waste, mostly why we haven't successfully solved the problems that they so... We are unsuccessful, and they have left us with such successful problems. Investments are like planting fruit. So, the best time to plant trees, Mr. Minister, was 20 years ago, and the second best time to plant trees is now. So what they're not used to planting and sitting, they're used to just picking. If you want to eat a delicious fruit, you have to plant a tree and invest it is a tree that is currently planted and they need to have a little patience, not break branches before full generation, etc., that they have some patience, that they are the true patriotic opposition, etc. If they had little to do with the economy, they would wait for the economy to rise and the agriculture to give birth to that fruit as best as possible, to win power, and, my God, they would pick whatever they didn't plant. They don't have that patience. They would now break it down as soon as possible and leave the Serbian people without investments, no sources, no strong industry, no strong agriculture. We can't build a strong industry and agriculture without respecting the environment, but we can't even respect the environment so much that we endanger and stop investing. It is necessary to coordinate one another, i.e. strong agriculture, strong industry as little as possible on the environment. Roosevelt said – the desire for success is already half a success, and I believe that the ruling majority has that wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45863	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milija Miletic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a colleague, Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said how important the budget of the Republic of Serbia is to fund the protection of the environment. These days, Rodoljub Sabic boasts about all his mouth through all these media campaigns against Alexander Vukic and SNS, as he sent me an answer to my parliamentary question, and he will not say that on the same day I received an answer from the DRI, to my parliamentary question, and it is about Mr Sabic's business. Here, I'll try briefly just to say what's listed in this answer. So, the DRI confirmed what I said, that in the process of verifying the Commissioner for Public Information, by regular procedure, so the DRI itself, and not on his call, to my second question – is it true that Rodoljub Sabic spent 1,350,000 dinars for his official travels, they said that they could not answer this question for legal reasons, but that when the final examination of the business of the Commissioner and when the report is final, he would be published on the site. So it's not true that DRI denied what I said, they just said that so far they can't publish it because it's such a legal procedure, but it's very interesting what they said in response to my third question – did the DRI publish a report on the work of the Commissioner? It says DRI like this - the report is still in the draft phase and has not been published on the official website, and the Commissioner is obliged, according to the regulations, to treat the content of the report as a confidential document, because on the first page of the draft, it is indicated that it is a confidential document. When the report becomes a final DRI, it will deliver it to the Republika Srpska Assembly and will publish it on the official website. So, Rodoljub Sabic, who needs to protect information from public importance, violates the law on the protection of information against public importance by misleading Serbian citizens that the DRI has established something that has not yet been confirmed and yet has yet to be published on the official internet presentation of the DRI. So it remains to be seen whether Rodoljub Sabic really spent this state money or not. He tried to present to Serbian citizens how I lied and deceived Serbian citizens. It states to me that I'm a liar, a thief, a criminal, etc. All that doesn't matter, but I'm saying that the DRI answered my parliamentary question and said that the draft report was prepared. The final report has not yet been completed. When it is finished, it will be published on the official internet presentation of the DRI, and then we will see if Shabic has really wasted government funds, as I say, or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45865	Thank you. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ana Karadzic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Bojan Bagica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is a colleague of Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45866	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, is currently one of the things that is current for Belgrade, current for Obrenovac, but I think it is also current for Serbia, which is returning to an old idea and project, which is that Belgrade gets part of the hot water for heating up apartments from TE "Nikola Tesla" formerly, is now part of the EPS. I'm glad this project took it seriously, entered some of its serious currents, and it's seen that it's also going to be taken in, as they often say. Why did that happen now, and it didn't happen 15 or 20 years ago, when it came to that? It didn't happen, simply because the authorities didn't take care of the Obrenovac before. This is a project that is important for Belgrade, it will bring quite a good environment, it will reduce the number of heats used, but until now no one has found understanding at the republican, urban and municipal level to join the hotline another highway that will eventually solve the issue of the heating of Obrenovac and rightly the Obrenovci were angry, always opposed. Today, when one highway, which is nothing compared to the entire investment, is planned and will be directed towards Obrenovac. It is simply what is an indicator of how it works, also thinks about its policy in the field and energy, but also about the environment is being carried out by the responsible authorities of all levels, taking care of Belgrade, but ignoring the interests of the citizens of Obrenovac, who have suffered the most for decades because they are the largest power plant in Serbia in Obrenovac. That's how it's supposed to go on. Thank you all for that thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45867	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and together by Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45868	The key amendments of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to all four members that are contained in this law on amendments and amendments to the basic law are in fact that we propose that all these members be deleted and that we show our relationship with the law. In fact, we want to tell the proposer, and the congregation majority, that these things can't be solved by ad hoc, from case to case, so now we're going to change three members, so in two months, two members, so we've changed five members, etc. These things must be done seriously and studioly, but not on the orders of the European Union and unrelated to those chapters of yours, but solely in the interest of solving the problems of Serbian citizens. You have heard here from the Serbian Radical Party MPs many concrete remarks, but you have not responded to them. You, Minister, in this debate tried to communicate with the MPs, in fact to make an impression that you were doing so, and then you responded to almost every amendment of the Members of Government, and they mainly talked about opening a factory in the King, about Lidl, about everything, just not much about what the subject of this law is. On the other hand, you've been responding to those who aren't here right now. I guess you're left with the time you were their city secretary, so somehow you can't forget it. Our remarks were very specific, and we expect you, Minister, if you were unable to, say, say yesterday, answer a question, to tell us what you're going to do on the territory of the Kursumli municipality, in the Merdari, in the meantime, you could find out and tell us today. But you just don't care about things like that. If you didn't know yesterday to tell us what the Ministry was going to do at the Char Mountain National Park, you could have told us today. We expect that what you have heard here from the MPs really translate into your work, because none of us here, when I say - none of us and the MPs, always and primarily, think of the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, none of us have called anyone to order, nor mentioned this or that to say anything, but because we really know what the problems are. We believe that you know, too, it's not controversial, but there are ways that many of these problems can be solved quickly and efficiently. There are some things that need a lot of money, and we understand that, but believe me, when it comes to protecting the human environment, the protection we're talking about here, it's not all about money. There's a lot to be done, but all it takes is goodwill. When I spoke earlier about this sandy mob, I left out to say one important moment, that the mafia took the wave and seriously began to function at a time when the minister was Velija Ilic. He was the one who supported and gave wind to the back, probably to some friends and friends, etc., well, clean, here, and I guess that's the information when you think about it, when you send an inspection, so when you see who you're going to file criminal charges. Solve these problems through local self-government. It's not enough for us to say here today – yes, it's terrible what's going on in Vranjska Banja. You have an instrument, you can invite some Boban Djurovic and say, hey, man, instead of building yourself there, come on, put away that dump in Vrnjačka Banja, it's the center of our tourism. At least do part of what you said, do what we advised you to do. You are either in any communication with the Messengers or you have nod or said yes, you are right, yes, that's right. But I'll repeat what we've already told you. The minister cannot act as an opposition MP, that he is finding all the problems, knows what the problems are, but the minister is expected to solve the problem. And we expect it from you, Mr. Trivan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45869	Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjušević and together Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlić and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the Fourth Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that the "free builder" came out, but when it comes to environmental pollution, we need to talk about spiritual pollution. Namely, this man, Nadine Sejdinović, known for a series of insults he has made today, known for his insults – a happy big duck to all those who celebrate, in a country of high religious tolerance, in a country of high religious freedoms, is the real happiness that he has offended Christians, and thus he wanted to say that they, they, he is an integral part of those over, he is an integral part of that Gilasian covenant of thieves, frauds and Latvians, who, behold, have lost, wanted to say that they are celebrating Jesus' death, celebrating everything that Christians suffer for, etc. That outrageous insult in Serbia could be directed by Najdin Sejdinovic and gone unpunished, or without any public conviction, although in all other countries he would be condemned for violating religious tolerance and hate speech. Today he repeated it again, I say it intellectually and spiritually, and it is an integral part of this union of thieves and I suggest that all MPs pay attention in the future. Such characters and those over the dispute seed meeting in Serbia, and it can sometimes make a record contribution. In conflict with themselves, which they want to produce, we will surely lose you and me, my colleague, to ask you, at least, regardless of the opposition or the authorities, who understand what the problem is, to strongly condemn this in the future, so that it will not be repeated, as is the case with Naedina Sejdinovic these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-11-0.u45871	Thank you. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, October 12th, 2018, starting at 10:00 p.m. as the day for voting on the items of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018.
