ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31551	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 74 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31552	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My first question goes to Minister Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government. Namely, what has the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government done so far about the initiative to set up the Municipality of Nova Paz? The proposal for an initiative for the establishment of this municipality was submitted on 8 July 2011. The proposal was preceded by a unanimous decision by the Nova Paz community's local community council on the acceptance of the New Paz municipality's proposals, and was also held because of citizens and an initiative was signed under the law, where six thousand signatures were collected. Lists of signatories of the National Initiative for the Establishment of the Municipality of Nova Paz have also been submitted, together with this proposal, and it is requested that the municipality of Nova Paz be singled out from the Catastrian municipality of Stara Paz. An elaborate was designed to clearly determine why it would be good. We are interested in which ministries have so far given an opinion on the justification of the initiative to create the municipality of Nova Paz, in order to determine the legality and justification of the proposed changes and what order of moves the ministry proposes. If I may add one more thing, if someone seems to have a little 6,500 signatures and that the municipality would be small, I would like to say that the Kingdom of Serbia in 1878 had as many as 2,000 municipalities. The second question is for the president of Serbia. On the basis of which views, or on the basis of which negotiating framework, does the president of Serbia hold talks and negotiations around the world? Who authorized the president to conduct these talks and negotiations and based on what platform does he do so? Namely, the Serbian Parliament, as I recall, has not given any approval or platform to conduct negotiations, perhaps the government has done so, perhaps the government has given some negotiating framework to the president of Serbia for KIM. We have been listening from the media and reading about the various proposals, about the division of Kosovo, about the exchange of territory, the south of Serbia for the north of Kosovo, about a chair in the UN, about the place of observer for Kosovo in the UN. We know that in addition to the framework provided by the Assembly or the Government, the Constitution is also a very firm constitutional framework that any improvisation can prevent. However, none of these proposals that revolve around the media, which even the president of the state himself mentions, fall within constitutional solutions. So my question is – on which and from which approved negotiating platforms the Head of State conducts talks and negotiations on KIM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31553	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31554	It's a question for the Prime Minister. Why has Serbia not been presented to the public with the agreement on the concession of "Nikola Tesla" airport? We see public disdain, primarily the citizens of Nis, in connection with the government's request and recommendation to transfer ownership of Constantin the Great Airport to the state of Serbia. The question is, in this room in 2011, we adopted the Public Property Act. The law was meant to correct an approach that should limit local self-governments to foster local economic development, and the Fund Act of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 1997 to prevent opposition local self-governments from managing property. We corrected that injustice in 2011 by adopting that law, with the deadline for the law to be applied in three years. So for three years both local self-government and public enterprises had the opportunity to enter the property. We delay the application of this law three times, first 2014, and then in 2017, and it is absurd that those who have done this job, which is the city of Nis, have entered property and property and land over the airport "Constantin Veli". Now we are in a situation, and that's a question for our Prime Minister, is it a reward for those who were up-to-date, for those who were doing their job, that they should now be nationalised again, conditionally said, that property and return that property to Nis Airport, one of the few successful public enterprises in Nis, once again a state. And what will guarantee all citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of Nis, that the management of the airport will be effective. Another question regarding the suspicions that are present precisely because we do not have a contract on the concession of "Nikola Tesla" airport. Is the reason for this transfer of assets and recommendations to the Government and that the concessionaires' condition was to reduce the frequency and traffic and the number of passengers at the airport in Nis. It can simply be removed. Take the contract out to the public of Serbia and I think it is important to give answers to these questions, and these questions are next. What was the motive for signing this concession contract? We have learned from the public that the state's compensation is about 417m euros, which will benefit the budget and the benefit of small shareholders, around 84m euros, a total of about 500m euros. We can see from public documents that at this point, the profit of the "Nikola Tesla" airport is 30m euros per year. In 25 years, what is the time limit of the concession agreement, that would be about 750m euros, even if there were no growth in the number of passengers and revenues. So 750 million potential revenues in 25 years, compared to 500 million. It is true that a billion-euro investment is foreseen in the airport, but the question is also raised here, and this is a question for the Prime Minister – are guarantees set in place and whether a bank guarantee is required to carry out these billion-dollar investments, and what will guarantee that these investments will be made and executed? The second question - who will remain the owner of what was invested for the billion euros on "Nikola Tesla" airport after the concession deadline? These are all issues that are important to the citizens of Serbia, and I think that both this Assembly and we MPs deserve answers to these questions. To get back to Nis Airport, we had really hard-to-understanding answers from the mayor who said that the city of Nis was unable to service the debt he took over from the Army of Serbia. I ask Minister Mihajlovic, who is in Nis today, and it is good that he is in Nis, but it will not be good to return from Nis with this consequent state, I think it is necessary to redefine this request from the government, which is why a 10m-euro bank guarantee for the contract signed and annexed in 2014, which is currently treating the city of Nis to the Serbian Army for building 300 squares of dwellings, and of which 10% would be belonging to Serbia's Army. I think it is precisely the space and amount that can compensate and provide what the mayor said was the main reason to return, to donate Nis to the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31555	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Chairman. I refer my question to Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and this is about Partizan Road. As you know, in the 1970s, a Partizan road was built over Fruska Mountain, through youth work, which was very important in tourism and traffic. This trip has recently been called the "Greben Way", I don't know why, as if we're ashamed of our anti-fascist past and the role of Partisans in World War II. But it's not my question of that, for the simple reason that we're already changing street names or cities, as if we're really ashamed of our anti-fascist past. The Partizan road is very important, because it connects the southern and northern sides of Fruska up and is also important for citizens of the municipality of Šid and citizens of Republika Srpska. Why? Well, that's the shortest way between these municipalities of Republika Srpska and Novi Sad and it's very burdened. However, this road is very messy and very badly maintained. On that road there are also rinks that have been missing for 20 and a few years. I ask the Minister of Traffic the following questions: first, who is in charge of maintaining the Partizan road? Secondly, is rehab planned this time of year? Is it planned to resuscitate the glide from the Lezimir loop to the settlements of Divoš and Vizic? In fact, that part is very frequent and that part is the most damaged part. There's a rink that no one's been running for 25 years. Knowing the importance of Fruska Gora in a touristic sense, knowing that in Frusko Gora, a very beautiful mountain is 17 monasteries, our cultural heritage, I ask the question – since we invest a lot in tourism, we want tourists to come to our beautiful Serbia, in Vojvodina, as well as in Srem, will the rehabilitation of these roads be carried out in this year, and will we allow the citizens of the municipality of Šid, inhabited towns, citizens of the Republic of Serbia to reach Novi Sad the shortest way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31557	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31558	The Honored Speaker of parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Party for Democratic Action, itself and in a coalition with the Presevo Valley parties since December 1990, has always had one or two representatives of Albanians in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Since 2007, PDD MPs have been fundamentally interested in participating in the work of parliamentary majority in the Republika Srpska Assembly, so that together with the government of the Republic of Serbia and its co-ordination body for these three municipalities, they work together to solve very difficult, sensitive and life-threatening problems for Albanians in Serbia. However, all this time there was no political readiness from the highest state level in Serbia to provide a serious approach to resolving the status of the Albanian national minority in Serbia. That is why no parliamentary majority has so far accepted co-operation with the legitimate representatives of Albanians. Even the state structures of Serbia did not respect the Agreement on the Principles of Reconstruction of the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, signed by the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the OSCE Ambassador, representatives of Albanians as MPs in the Serbian Parliament, which was also appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the arrangement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja since 9 April 2009. The programme of emergency measures to address the life problems of Albanians in these municipalities, which the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted by its decision of 4 June 2013. I am as PDD MP the only legitimate representative of Albanians in the Serbian Parliament by letter of 4. 09. In 2017, I tried to make my contribution to solving this very sensitive problem. But I've been very drastically ignored. I was also ignored in co-operation with the government, although we held two very important talks with the PDD delegation, first with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, 8. 06. In 2016, and then, after a year, 8. 06. 2017 with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic, on the subject – Reorganisation of the Government's Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, which was more ready to deal more effectively with the very difficult and sensitive life problems of Albanians in Serbia. Despite the fact that on 8 June 2016, Serbia's incumbent President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister of the government, said that the PDD delegation's demands are acceptable, so far we have no answer for those proposals that we have sent in writing, in conditions in which I, as an MP, supported the parliamentary majority. It is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia and other top state authorities do not show good will to co-operate transparently with the legitimate representative of the Albanian national minority in order to ensure a serious approach in resolving the very difficult situation in this area. In this situation, because of irresponsible government procedures, we are forced to reconsider our relationship with the parliamentary majority and the government. I'm asking the government. What else do I have to do to get this agreement and the deal between the PDD and the government started to apply or to start making demands? Why and at the cost of brutal violations of constitutional and legal standards provide illegal monopoly to a political party in Presevo who has been illegally funded from abroad, but also from state sources, while at the same time drastically ignoring and damaging a parliamentary party who has been trying to solve sensitive problems in Presevo Valley through legitimate representatives and legal procedures since 2007? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31559	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer my question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Why did she announce to the public that now the government's reconstruction is not a priority, that it is necessary to wait for things to stabilize around Kosovo and Metohija to be stabilised, and only then to approach this serious business? It needs the other way around. We need a consolidated government to deal more seriously with all the problems that follow us with Kosovo and Metohija. We need a homogeneous government. We need a government composed exclusively of patriots. That is why Zorana Mihajlovic should be expelled from the government immediately. I gave the press last time and gave all the present ministers the material, which she sent to the US Embassy in Belgrade, where she suggested the conclusion of an interstate contract under which US firms would have absolute priority in infrastructure works in Serbia and without public competition would get jobs. When the press asked her about it, then she was just messing up, and it's just a predicate. I know. But the predicate was offered on our side. The draft had to stand before the government, and the government, no one knew about it, and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic himself, whom I asked directly and confirmed to me that she had no idea. The Minister of Health of Zlatibor Lončar should be evicted from the government immediately. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic announced some time ago that 3.5 billion euros is allocated to health in Serbia each year, and that one billion of them is missing in an untraceable way. Where does it go? It disappears in mob hands, disappears in the purchase of equipment, techniques, drugs, and today I will present one extensive material at the press conference at 11.00 p.m., where I will expose another criminal affair of Zlatibor Lončar, related to the supply of equipment, to the Clinical Center in Nis. People like that should be kicked out of the government as soon as possible. There are more of them, I can't name them all now, and there are those who need for health reasons to back off and I wouldn't say anything bad about them. The disease is still the reason that they can't do their job. There are at least two of them, but the government is flawed even if there are two sick people. Believe me, I'm a while ago, it was a long time ago, seriously sick, so I know what it looks like, so they'll back off if they get better, thank God, they can be reactivated, and if they don't get better, what can they do? Nature goes its own way, God's will, but the government must be maximumly mobilized, engaged and compact. There must be no one in the government who thinks he's going to the Western embassies in Belgrade, especially in the US and British. There must be no one in the government who's prevented her from filling her pockets and pockets with her accomplices from protecting the nation's health. In the rest, the health minister woke up only recently on vaccination. There's more than a year since I asked for criminal sanctions against propagators to reject vaccines for small children. Now that we're in a situation where the whole nation can get sick, actually people of the younger generation, because we're older, at least these diseases were over in our time, when there was no vaccine. We've been over it. We know from memory that it wasn't naive at all and that some children were dying from it at the time. That's what it was called when I was a little furry kid who, in preschool age, got over a lot of high school showers, about fifth or sixth grade. The ministry had to react immediately and seek police intervention, to stop it, because it is the worst form of spreading false news with the most harmful consequences and forms of panic spreading in the people. So, first these two ministers to get out of the government, that's the most urgent, and there are others, which the minister knows better than he can do. First, the government's reconstructions, and we will deal with the Kosovo-Methohic problem more easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31561	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31562	So, on 20 July 2017, by decision of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues, the Working Group was educated to draw up a proposal for a Code of Conduct. For this reason, the chairman of the Working Group, Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, is asking the question. Why hasn't the Working Group started working after eight and a half months of its establishment? Will it never begin to work, as the conduct of MPs in the assembly is an example of positive parliamentary behaviour? I personally do not believe that one MP wants his colleague to address him with – a complete asshole, a complete idiot, or that 40% is functionally capable. I would ask my colleague Martinovic to answer this question, if he is willing, because it concerns all MPs and I think he would like to hear the answer. A question for the prime minister, Mrs. Anna Brnabic. No civilised state can move forward unless it solves the issue of ownership. A long time ago, an injustice was committed that seized private property for Serbian citizens. New laws are being passed regarding the various purposes of land and other immovableities, and a question is being ignored about the issues I'm asking the prime minister right now. When will they be prepared and put on the agenda of the return law of the seized property and the compensation in terms of general substitution of other substituting assets? I note that the government has also announced that it will be effective on this issue and also announced this law in December 2017. The second question for Ms. Ana Brnabic concerns the government's reconstruction issue. She made several dissuasive statements, that the government does not work like you and that it is necessary to implement its reconstruction. Yesterday, she said that the government's reconstruction is not a priority and will be delayed when the situation in Kosovo is stabilised. I ask when was the stable situation in Kosovo? I believe that this cannot be a reason for delaying the reconstruction, because a government that is not a team, is not a good government, can not solve the situation well in Kosovo, so we feel that reconstruction is necessary. The issue for the Ministry of Economy has been announced for days in the "Serbs of Serbia", and this must not be ignored in parliament. In November 2017, I asked the question, what is the real nature of the problem in "Serbs of Serbia" and when will the competition be held for the director, given that V.D. Mr. and Mrs. Miri Petrovic, has the mandate already expired? I received a very fast and correct response from the Ministry of Tourism and Telecommunications – at meetings held with union representatives, it was noted that the main problem of employees is a poor material position, given that profits in the company have not been increased for almost 10 years, that below the republican average, and that the reduced salary of 10%, has further compromised the standard of employees. In addition, a large number of employees are engaged for a certain period of time, and their working legal status is not regulated. On a part of the issue relating to the implementation of a competition for the selection of directors, I am addressed to the Ministry of Economy, which performs the tasks of the state administration, which relate to the resolution and appointment of management in public enterprises. In this regard, my question to the Ministry of Economy is – On 10 March 2017, the Ministry of Economy announced a competition for the selection of the director of the Public Enterprise "Post-Serbia", Belgrade, and what happens to the competition, as well as when can we expect the appointment of a new director of this public enterprise? A question for the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and the Ministry of Environment – at the Pančić Summit in the centre of the National Park Kopalnik on the plot 1877/1 Quick, an illegal facility of 1,000 square meters was built, which was built by investor Snezana Micković, on the basis of all relevant institutions. In 2018, this facility was entered in the immovableity cadasar and without mentioning that it was an illegal object. The Brus municipality's Katastra services indicate that the pre-parcellation request has been filed by the Public Enterprise "Scifership of Serbia". The Republic's construction inspection reached a final solution on the destruction of the facility on January 24th. I'm asking, how is it possible to build a 1,000-square-square-square-free facility in the National Park without being suspended in time by construction works, as well as inspections by the Ministry of Environmental Protection? Why did the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry allow an illegal facility to be built on a plot that is in public property, on which this Ministry is the bearer of the right to use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31563	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31564	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the first question to be asked by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about yesterday's warnings and to take away the words that the chairman told me. There's a stenographic note here about what I said. So, no moment of the words that the chairman mentioned, I didn't say. So, I quote, I said that fellow MPs read compositions and papers, and then he willingly lied brutally and said that I said literary works and literary compositions. With that, I ask the question of Parliament's president will he withdraw the warnings I was told yesterday and will he punish the chairman, Arsic, because he brutally misused the presidency? It disables normal discussion and normal work and conducts mobbing over opposition MPs, abusing its function. I'm asking you to give me an answer in writing, and as evidence, I'm applying the stenographic logs, and you can see it very clearly in the video yesterday what I was saying, and what the chairman said afterwards, and I confirmed that I said something that I didn't actually mention that word. I ask the second question, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and I ask the question of the minister of transport, construction and infrastructure, related to the award of the airport in Nis, Serbia. So, the question is, why is the Government of the Republic of Serbia now, right now, taking over the airport in Nis? The second question is whether the concession treaty, signed by the government with the French company Vansi, the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation not to develop other airports in Serbia, not to create competition with the foreign company to manage airports, the Nikola Tesla airport in Belgrade? The third question I ask is how is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia was unable to manage the "Nikola Tesla" airport in Belgrade on its own, so it gave it to foreign concessions, and now it knows and knows how to operate the Nis airport? In 2017, Nis Airport achieved a record number of passengers – 331,582 transported passengers. According to official statistics, the airport was second in Europe last year by the number of passengers. So, there is serious growth and therefore local authorities have decided at some point to cut taxes, so that the tickets are even more favourable for Serbian citizens using the airport. Furthermore, I ask the question is is the reason that Nis Airport should be handed over to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, said on a show, when he said they let Nis develop, the airport in Nis, despite the fact that the management of the airport did not realise that it was thus reducing the number of growth of the "Nikola Tesla" airport in Belgrade? Does this mean that we need to sacrifice the public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from all parts of the Republic of Serbia because of the interests of foreigners? Does this mean that neither the airport in Nis will develop, that it will not be released to the Morava airport in Brodjevci, whose release you have mentioned since 2012 in the paper, that there will be nothing from Ponikva airport? Does this mean that all other parts of Serbia should not develop and that it should not represent the public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in order to satisfy foreigners and to sell out to foreigners all that is the public interest of this country? Also, I ask why Nis should pay compensation for 170 hectares of land, transferred to him by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the City of Nis, and that in this Arab, which received 120 hectares in Belgrade, they pay nothing? That's what they got without compensation. Therefore, because of all this and because of the situation in Nis, and because the government local in Nis is unable to vote for the citizens of Nis, the People's Party proposes that instead of Nis, the government of the Republic of Serbia Nislja presents Mayor Nis Dark Bulatovic. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31565	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31566	Thank you, Chairman. The question is for the Republic government. Will it also form an inter-resor commission tasked with establishing the exact number of all victims of the 1999 criminal NATO aggression? It is necessary to determine the exact number of soldiers, police members and all civilian victims, both killed and wounded during this unremembered genocide committed by the evil NATO alliance. It is enough, even too much time came from this genocide attempt to destroy the Serb people in which they were killed, alongside Serbs, and many members of the national minorities, without a precise, documented and undeniable number of NATO victims of crimes being found. Trained by the conflict of victims in Jasenovac and in all other numerous strategies, where Serbs, Jews and gypsies suffered during World War II, were taught to dispute and bid on the number of killed and exiled Serbs from their centuries-old hearths in Croatia and BiH at the time of the 1990s wars, in no way should we allow the bidding and relativeisation of the number of victims of NATO aggression, because such a relationship with these facts is a place for the thugs who serve the interests of criminals to argue and prove that there were no more than 758 bombing victims, thus reducing the guilt of criminals. The next question is also the Ministry of Agriculture and the Republic Government, which is whether they will reconsider the decision approving the import of sheep and goats, or their meat from Albania? In addition to obviously more political reasons for reviewing such a decision, it is necessary to re-analyse once again what impact this will have on the further, for the time being, the initial, but promising success in increasing the livestock fund in Serbia. In my opinion, it's more logical to invest in an incentive to increase the livestock stock than to import meat. After all, if that meat were more quality and cheaper than domestic meat, it would probably already be exported to many markets in the environment. I didn't realize that this import is needed to improve the varieties that are grown in Serbia, or to increase the stock fund. I may be mistaken, but I didn't notice a lack of these kinds of meat on the Serbian market. Is importing meat from Albania and exporting cheap corn to Albania the right way to develop agriculture and livestock from Serbia? It is logical for me to export meat to foreign markets and invest corn in increasing the livestock stock under better and easier conditions for cattle farmers would be far more profitable and beneficial for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31567	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31568	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, I ask the question of Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Zoran Djordjevic on the social security and security agreement between Serbia and Russia. In fact, a delegation from the Diaspora and Serbs Committee to the Serbian Parliament region was in Russia last week. She had the opportunity to meet representatives of the responsible committees of the Russian Duma and in talks with representatives of our diaspora and with the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia we heard about a major problem concerning the Serbian diaspora, that is, our workers who work in Russia and who have extremely bad conditions for their jobs. Currently, all Serbian workers working in Russia have the right to obtain a work permit for a maximum month, much less and much less than representatives of other nationalities working in Russia. A few years ago, an agreement has been signed that should provide that our workers can work in Russia for a year, that they can change the place of residence, move from one city to another, and that during that time they do not bear any sanctions if that period of a month passes them, because they are thus deported from Russia or our businessmen are paying huge penalties. For three years now, this problem has been going on and we are now asking the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs when this problem will finally be resolved and when our workers working in Russia will have the right to stay for a year, to have their work permit for a year and to have the same conditions as the workers from Turkey and Azerbaijan. Also, I ask the question of Prime Minister Ani Brnabic and Parliament Speakers, will in the future reconstruction of the government and perhaps in some new law on ministries be places for the Ministry of Euro-Asian Integration and also for the Committee on Euro-Asian Integration within the Assembly, because we see how much support this government and this state is asking Russia to do in international institutions when the issue of protecting the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, protecting our people in KIM, and through practical action, through the work of the Government and through the work of the Assembly? We don't see any good will to improve that cooperation. I can freely say that the co-operation between Russia and Serbia is extremely small, that meetings at Parliament level are extremely small and that here I appeal to all representatives and committee presidents that, in accordance with the agreement signed in 2009, which began to apply when this government came in 2015, they insist on frequent meetings between representatives of the committee of our Assembly and the Russian Duma. Only in this way will economic co-operation that we are talking about be launched, because unfortunately, we do not have a distribution centre in Moscow today. Co-operation at the level of food agricultural products is extremely low and there is one huge capacity for this co-operation to develop, so I urge here all people who lead committees to start working with representatives of the Russian Duma. Also, I would like to ask the Ministry of Education, Mr. and Minister Mladen Sarcevic when he intends to equalise the status of all Serbian students from the region, because we are witnessing that many students who come from Albania, Hungary and Macedonia do not have the same rights as our students and as students of Serbian nationality who come from Montenegro and Republika Srpska. So the status of all our students who are being held as students of Serbian origin in the region must be the same. Students from Macedonia and Albania must have the right to study in Serbia in the budget, so that they can compete to get homes and not only can they compete and be privileged, but the Ministry of Education should also engage that as many students from the region study in Serbia as possible so that these people are our ambassadors to the countries tomorrow, because we see what the situation is, what is the position of the Serb people in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31569	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31570	I thank the chairman. A good part of the MPs today commented on the situation of the airport in Nis. I remind the public that our former counterpart, Milos Boskovic, has launched protests right in Nis, with the aim of preserving the airport and maintaining the property of the city. On March 30th, the Assembly of the City of Nis, or the majority of the town of Nis, decided to practically donate an airport, a local airport to Serbia. I do not understand that decision by the local authorities calling for decentralisation and economic empowerment of this region, given how devastated the south and east of Serbia is, I simply cannot understand that this decision has been well-intentioned and in the interest of citizens living in this territory. Is it also disputed that this decision was adopted only a week after the concession was signed on "Nikola Tesla" Airport, and it is about what kind of contract did we sign as a state at all? With this in mind, my question was addressed to Minister Mihajlovic and I call on her to deliver a secret contract to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that he ceases to be a secret, so that we can remove any suspicion that this decision by the city government in Nis has anything to do with this disputed secret contract. I would like to refer the second question to Minister Ani Brnabic, and also to the mayors in Sombor, named Dusanka Golubovic, namely a citizen named Dragana Djapic, she is employed in the Stanisic Mesna Community as the organizer of cultural activities. Last year, because of her, I say, activities that have nothing to do with working in the municipality, she was fired. After ten days she was returned to work, or returned to work, and after ten days she was fired again, and unfortunately we now question that it has to do with her activity in this local community, because she was working to preserve the village library. These protests she organised were accompanied by media excellence and received great public support and we have now received information, as a parliamentary group, that Anna Brnabic, you may think, so the Prime Minister invited the mayor to fire the lady who is employed in the Meat Community in Stanisic. So it seems to me that we in the Serbian government have a large number of micro-managers who deal with both these issues and what's worst, people only sanction themselves because of their political beliefs that in no way affect their work. I ask the mayor to provide us with a report on all the allegations that I have made in the assembly today. The third question is referred to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. In fact, a public debate has recently been launched on the new Law on Access to Information of Public Matters and what is unusual in this law, so the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection was not involved in drawing up this Bill. So the only independent institution directly related to this law was not included in writing the same. So, at a public hearing where I myself attended a representative of the Commissioner's office of information of public importance, this is exactly what my allegations confirmed. Their proposals delivered to the ministry, unfortunately, have not been adopted and the question is, what kind of law will we get, given that the takeover is soon to be followed, i.e. the termination of the current trustee for information of public importance? So the question arises whether this new law is being prepared for the needs, so to speak, of installing a new, independent, independent trustee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31571	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31572	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to refer the matter to the Minister of Health and the Minister for Environmental Protection. On March 24th, 19 years have ended since the start of brutal aggression on our country by the NATO Pact countries. Serbia was constantly bombed for 78 days. There were huge casualties, many lives lost, huge assets destroyed, and a polluted environment, both water, air, and land. Experts, domestic and foreign, as well as various organisations and associations, are increasingly referring to the inconceivable consequences of the bombing of our nation's health. In this regard, a group of experts, including a lot of my fellow doctors, launched an initiative to form a national body and a laboratory to examine and determine the impact and consequences of NATO bombing. The initiative was publicly supported by the country's president, a government that is ready to support the establishment of a national laboratory for testing the consequences of NATO bombing, as well as health ministers and environmental protection. It is indisputable that NATO forces in the bombing of Serbia used poor uranium in the south of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. NATO itself has admitted it. In addition, various carcinogenic substances that are harmful to human health and the environment have been released during the bombing of large industrial and energy plants. On the other hand, statistics suggest that there has been an increase in the disease of autoimmune diseases, leukemia and malignancies of which some 70,000 people are annually ill, and as many as 20,000 of them end up dead. This epidemic of cancers has been directly linked by many doctors and other experts to the use of poored uranium, which has a half-life of up to 4.5 billion years. I also point out that experts from the World Health Organisation have accepted data that there has been a drastic increase in malignancies in Serbia since 2001. For these reasons, I would like to ask whether the state, or resolution ministries, will take steps to really establish the real truth, as well as the consequences of Serbia's bombing on the health of the nation and the state of the environment? I'm talking about the establishment of a lab that experts are looking for and other measures of the state. We owe the truth to ourselves and to future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31573	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, as regards the responsibility of former regime representatives from Zoran Zivkovic to Mirko Cvetkovic for the situation at the Constantin Great Airport in Nis and for the economic devastation of the city of Nis. In order to remind Serbian citizens, Nis Airport opened in 1986, when it was founded as a social enterprise at the republican level. In 1999, Nis airport was bombed, after which it was renovated by the Norwegian government's donation, in 2002 it became a public enterprise, and in 2003 traffic was restored at this airport. From October 2003 to 2010, only JAT flew and this airport served as an alternative airport for "Nikola Tesla" Airport and other airports in the region. The Serbian government, headed by Mirko Cvetkovic, puts the city of Nis in debt slavery in 2010, transferring ownership of the airport to the city of Nis, with commitments measured by billions of dinars. Zoran Zivkovic, who stands most against the decision of the city of Nis these days, was the mayor of Nis, and then the prime minister and never launched an initiative to transfer ownership of Nis airport from the level of the Republic to the city of Nis. The city of Nis has not been able today, and in particular it has not been able to allocate funds for the normal functioning of this airport. The total commitments the city of Nis made in 2010 under the contract concluded between the Ministry of Defence and the City of Nis amount to a total of 158 hectares of Serbia land in the territory of the city of Nis, 32 apartments for members of the Army, 21% of the future built area of the residential area at the site of the "Buban Heroes" of around 20.8m euros and in the period from 2010 to today 32 apartments of the total value of two million euros and all six hectares of the country worth 55,000 euros. In particular, I would like to point out that in 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, in four years, 3.6m euros of direct subsidies from the Niš city's funds were allocated to Montenegro Airlines 2.7m euros and Wind Jet almost a million euros, all so that Nis airport could function at all. In addition, direct subsidies from the city of Nis and the "Nikola Tesla" airport in the same period amounted to around fourm euros. All above is a reflection of the irresponsible Niš management policy until 2012 and the irresponsible grant of funds, which is one of the reasons that led the town of Nis to a huge budget deficit. From 2014 to today, the number of passengers thanks to subsidies and assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia increased from 1335 to 331,582 passengers today. In the same period, Niš's total aid to Nis airport amounts to 2.2m euros through investments, through a programme of assistance and assistance to financial liquidity. In the same period, the investments of the Republic of Serbia in Nis airport amount to 3.6m euros, in ground radio navigation equipment, providing X-rays for the control of passengers, luggage and pre-named packages and accompanying vehicles for airport purposes. The need for new investments made by Nis airport and the JUB Development Agency is full of 20m euros by 2021, and it is clear to everyone that the city of Nis cannot secure these investments. The following investments are concerned: the flight control tower - 10m euros, landing equipment in fog conditions and limited visibility - twom euros, the extension of the terminal building - 3.5m euros, new equipment - threem euros, and approach lights for the category - one, one and a halfm euros. According to the long-term business strategy and development plan, JP Nis Airport for the period from 2021 to 2026 requires significant capital investments to rehabilitate the runway, an expansion of the platform they plan to apply for grants from international and national funds of around 7.25m euros. (President: Please bring the end. Here, I'm done. At the moment, it is quite uncertain whether such a type of funding will be available, which means that the Republic of Serbia must prepare funds in the budget and for this investment in order to achieve a forecast traffic of 774 thousand passengers by 2027. So, I repeat, I am asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure about what is the responsibility of the former regime from Zoran Zivkovic to Mirko Cvetkovic due to the enormous damage caused by Konstantin Veli Airport in Nis and the city of Nis itself?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31575	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next MPs – Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that during the search in detail of the 1st item of the agenda, they are invited to attend today's session: Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Džic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Professor Bojan Tubic and Minister Branko Ruzic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. The People's Messenger Jovica Jevtic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31576	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to the President-in-Office draft law on the national framework for qualifications of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "In Article 2. The bill is added to point 15, which is an affirmation of acquired qualifications, capitalisation of acquired titles for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to even development." With day-to-day activities in all parts of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, leading a responsible and above all state-efficient policy, which aims to ensure a balanced territorial development and better life of citizens, regardless of the part of the state they live in, creates a social framework and a system in which full affirmation of acquired knowledge comes and full capitalisation of acquired titles and qualifications. This social framework is the cornerstone of our country's future as modern and prosperous with a system of values that is acceptable to all its citizens and which at the same time opens up opportunities for their will to acquire knowledge and improve, which is based on a quality system of education, to capitalise on individual and overall development of the entire community. In order for this system to be realistic and successful in the future, it is necessary to present an instrument that regulates the scope of qualifications and links of these qualifications with the real labour market, which, in itself, takes the concept of lifelong learning. The proposed legislative solution is certainly presented in a good way as one of these instruments, and I therefore believe that the proposed amendment further defines the basic concepts and their meaning of this bill, and thus affects the better quality of the proposed legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31577	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31578	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with my associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, in order to clarify in paragraph 15 one more term because this article refers to clarifications of certain concepts in the proposed law. No matter how much this law applies to education, above all to the reform of education, it applies to all other areas of our social life and so to the judiciary, and I have linked this amendment to the improvement of the judiciary. We in Serbia must raise the quality of the judiciary in order not to repeat ourselves, as was the case for individual judges of Miskovic to return passports and then become officials of Jeremic or any other party. We need to raise the quality of the judiciary so we don't get people thirsty for justice, and on the other hand they watch the courts release or release without proof those who have destroyed the factories, those who have left many, many people out of work, as these same judges declare them beautiful and innocent as children's tears. Serbia needs judges to judge on behalf of the people, as it writes at the beginning of each verdict. Serbia needs people who will know that they are judging on behalf of the people, not on behalf of the tycoon and their politicians. Serbia needs judges who are not elected at the DS municipal board meetings, as was the case. We need judges who will solve who is and how he privatised the factories and destroyed the Serbian economy, who left workers on the streets and how some politicians got rich while the state collapsed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31579	I thank you for Article 2 of the amendment has been submitted by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milovan Krivokapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31580	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this law, which adds point 15, which reads as an affirmation of acquired qualifications, i.e. capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to develop undeveloped municipalities. We know that qualification is a formal recognition of acquired competences, where an individual acquires qualifications when the competent authority determines that he has achieved learning outcomes according to the given qualification standard, which is confirmed by public correction, or by a diploma or certification. The level of qualification is determined by a description of the knowledge, skills, abilities and attitudes necessary to carry out the work or to continue learning. It is the professional calling of different competences necessary for the performance of the work, as well as the skills that are manifested through the application of methods and techniques of work, the creation of new solutions, the use of new information, the handling of tools and machines and the use of materials, as well as the ability and attitudes seen in the independence and responsibility and management of the work process, that contributes to the development of undeveloped municipalities. Therefore, the acquired qualification should be adequately affirmed, i.e. capitalised, acquired knowledge. The fact that it is very important is that the capitalisation of knowledge is a driver of the economy. This process takes place through innovation including scientific research with technological innovation and patents and their commercial exploitation, i.e. Capitalisation of acquired knowledge in developing countries can be seen through the number of patents, rates and structures of funding scientific and development research and human resources in science and technology, all comparing this with developed European countries and global trends with leading countries of the world. It is precisely because of the unfavourable position of developing countries that systemic solutions are needed, and at the beginning of all the legal framework, that is to say, the adoption of the proposed National Qualifications Framework Act. In Article 2, points 1 to 14, the meaning of this law is defined in detail, but it is necessary to further define that the affirmation of acquired qualifications, i.e. capitalisation of acquired knowledge, is carried out in order to develop with a specific reference to undeveloped municipalities, which is very important and therefore very carefully, by analysing the points mentioned, I have proposed an amendment supplementing Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31581	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Stanja Compirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31582	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 point 15) – the affirmation of acquired qualifications, the capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to develop the Republic of Serbia overall with a special reference to improving the judiciary. The process of development in our country and society is represented in all areas of education, health, justice. We strive to live in a better and more modern society and to reach it only by our work, knowledge, and effort. That is why we are implementing a reform of education so that through reforms we can have generations able to develop and preserve their country and contribute to social economic development. We seek to build a more efficient judicial system, a better business environment for faster dispute resolution and a decisive fight against corruption. We had to do a lot to improve and quality and invest in building and adapting the business space. More than 60,000 square metres have been done, both in Belgrade and across Serbia. New courts in Raškoj, Raškoj Criminal Court, Valjev, Loznica, Šapcu have been built, because for years, perhaps 20 years before, it has not been invested in the judiciary, and it is possible to give better space for the work of judicial authorities and the provision of services. New professions have been introduced, new laws, new work systems, created an independent judiciary and a good business environment for the security of every citizen in this country. We strive to implement and do what previously the authorities did to our society, to remove them in any way, because they did not, but they brought him into a catastrophic state and we managed to bring our country, our judicial and educational system, into a better and more efficient state. We have proven that we are more powerful and capable in the 2012 elections, the presidential elections and the elections in Belgrade held on 4 March. The proposed amendment will contribute to the best implementation of the laws in our society and will contribute to the development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31583	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31584	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, this amendment correctly and precisely defines the affirmation of qualifications acquired, i.e. The capitalisation of acquired knowledge affects the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular focus on better access to economic resources. As NOX precisely defines the framework of qualifications, the standard of occupation, i.e. the description of duties and tasks, the outcome of learning and key competences for lifelong learning, it is also necessary to define the possibility of capitalisation of acquired knowledge and the impact of these knowledge on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Through formal and informal education, as well as through the NOX registry, it is necessary to define how the acquired knowledge, i.e. improve economic potential and social development. Investment in education, which is at the same level of development in European countries, provides new opportunities for the achievement of the remuneration for invested work and acquired qualifications. Improving the education system and defining the qualifications of acquired knowledge will improve the ability to do the work for which young people and those who approach lifelong learning are truly schooling and improving their knowledge and experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31585	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31586	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Ministers with Associates, Article 2. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is given meanings in terms of which the law is served. I think that in these terms, the concept should be added – capitalisation of knowledge, as I have already said, with a special emphasis on gender equality, as one of the ways to achieve even better results. I would like to point out that the measures announced by President Vukic, as regards the incentive of birth, will greatly help to improve gender equality. I think women will be much more motivated to work, to fight in the world of work, and to encourage these results in a much better and easier way. The ability to capitalise knowledge and experience also helps women, because it is, in some ways, the affirmation of their work and helps to develop this principle of gender equality. We influence gender equality through different ways – economic empowerment of women, through gender-responsible budgeting, strengthening institutions, but above all by laws. So gender equality must be an integral part of every law we adopt in the future. One of the four criteria for which the global index, "global Gender Gap", serves is educational achievement, when we talk about gender equality, and therefore it is important that it be an integral part of all the laws, especially when we talk about the laws of the domain of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31587	Thank you. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an affirmation of acquired qualifications, a really very significant law, and my amendment makes sense once again to point out that all competences and all affirmations of this knowledge should be extended to the region as well. Yesterday's debate by my colleague, who comes from the same city as me, Miss Janosevic, encouraged me, she taxfully cited all the grain companies or perhaps soon petrocity companies that are precisely due to competence and for qualifications ended up in a magical manner and completely in privatisation destroyed or closed, although there was exceptional co-operation with the region, especially with tycoons from the entire region. An MP from the previous assembly and the president of the parliamentary group often used monologues and dialogues from the great literary part of Dusan Kovacevic and the movie Slobodan Sijana "The Marathons run in an honorary circle". I wondered where the constant association came from on this particular detail, and then I realized that the competence of the acquired knowledge of the Topalovic and the Government was almost the same by 2012. These business activities are completely like each other. There was a significant enterprise to bury in the ground or coffin as deep as possible, and then after a while dig up, repaint and repaint, workers to fire or the deceased to get rid of, and then resell it, whether to domestic tycoons or, better yet, in the region. Only in the role of Beli Bora was Mile Jerkovic, Nebojsa Frog, Darko Saric and who knows who else. I leave to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the imagination to determine all the other Topalovics in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31589	The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31590	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, in order to complete this truly high-quality bill, I have proposed an amendment to Article 2. The bill adds point 15, which reads – the affirmation of acquired qualifications, the capitalisation of acquired knowledge to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the efficiency of the judiciary, with the aim of further defining the basic concepts and their meaning in an attempt to improve the efficiency of the judiciary in general through the affirmation of acquired qualifications and the improvement of professional competences of judicial staff. The efficiency of the judiciary depends, both on the number of judges and prosecutors, and on their competence, which tells us that one measure to increase the efficiency of the work of the courts must also be to improve the education system through the education of competent individuals who will be able to respond adequately and professionally to the needs of our judiciary. We must admit that Serbia's judiciary has a long number of years of problems with a large number of pending cases. This specifically referred to the problem of age and length of pending cases, and one of the main reasons for this situation was the disastrous reform of the judiciary in 2009. In order to address this problem, the Ministry of Justice has for several years been taking a number of concrete measures that have affected a significant shift in this area. By observing the efficiency of courts in both domestic statistics and comparing them with statistics from European Union countries, it is noticeable that our country has made significant progress over the past few years, both by reducing the old cases that have burdened the judiciary and by speeding up judicial proceedings, so we can freely conclude that Serbia has made significant progress in increasing the efficiency of the judiciary over the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31591	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Do you want a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31592	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 2 which I have submitted represents a logical continuation in relation to the amendment to Article 1. The bill also provides for an affirmation of modernisation in the context of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which is directly related to the objectives that we want to achieve in this law, as well as the problems that this law needs to address. Three are the problems this law needs to solve. This is a problem of compliance of the qualification system with the needs of the economy and institutional links between the field of work and the field of education in the development and acquisition of qualifications. Then, the problem of insufficient involvement of citizens in lifelong education as a result of a lack of transparency in terms of transparency, mobility and links between qualifications, as well as flexibility of the education system. And the problem of identifying and recognising qualifications and their international and comparison with the European Qualifications Framework. What else is important to point out here? We create the basis, as we have heard, for establishing a single and functional national qualification system, and then we create a basis for the formation of bodies involving representatives of the economy and employment and the establishment of a mechanism of co-operation and decision-making, then we establish procedures and guidelines for the development of qualifications standards at all levels, their adoption and registration. So from all this, it is clear that this bill is a qualitative step forward in the process of reforming the education system, and my amendment is fully in line with these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31593	I thank my colleague Markovic. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31594	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, I have submitted to Article 2 an amendment that reads to add a new point 15, which should read that the affirmation of acquired qualifications as a concept is introduced into Article 2 and that it represents capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to fully develop the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to greater social equality. First, the reason for this amendment is that I am an amendment, which, in accordance with this, has submitted to Article 1, to Article 3, and to Article 4, which is just the introduction of this amendment, the wording should facilitate and facilitate the practical implementation of Articles 4 and 10 of this Law. Article 4 where NOX principles are defined is also subject to amendments, but I will talk about it when it comes to order. I simply believe that the principles of NOKS must establish the question of social equality, as one of the essential principles on which the work and the agency are based, as well as the law itself. Why does it matter? It is important, because it will facilitate the application of Articles 9 and 10, in particular of Article 10 relating to career management and counselling, because career management and counselling services - provide support to the individual to achieve passability through various NOX levels, enabling the application of lifelong learning concepts and easier labour mobility. I think it's an absolutely clear connection and the need for such an amendment. So in voting day, I'm going to vote for my amendment anyway, but I think you should also consider whether there is room for the government to directly integrate it into this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31595	Thank you. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP LJibuška Lakatoš.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31596	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 2. The proposal for a law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia adds item 15, which reads as an affirmation of acquired qualifications, capitalisation of acquired knowledge aimed at the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of the school system. The school system, the system of educational institutions, is the backbone of every education and education system, because all institutions in the school system are connected. Education as a process for the adoption of knowledge, the acquisition of skills, the development of ability is an important segment of all social activities. It is a life-long process for which the national qualification framework for Serbia recognises the need for lifelong learning. Education is the fundamental basis and existential need of every man. It is a process that takes place in educational institutions, but also beyond them. It is not enough to adopt a particular knowledge fund, since knowledge and skills must be enriched, continued education is necessary. Just by establishing NOKS, it will enable the uniqueness of statistical monitoring of education, harmonisation of education and employment records, as well as comparison with other systems in Europe. The introduction of technological newspapers into the work process implies that the staff have new knowledge to be included in the plans for the development of staff and development plans for education. More efficient investment in the school system must be ensured in order to adapt the outcome of learning to the needs of the labour market, to adapt to new conditions and possible changes in professions. This also reduces unemployment and increases employment productivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31597	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the People's Messenger is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31598	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, capitalisation of acquired knowledge is certainly in the function of economic development. These days in Priboj, we are negotiating with one of the best Serbian companies to start their production in a free industrial zone in Priboj. And what's interesting is that the owner of the company equally analyzes the facilities of the free industrial zone in Priboj and the Machine and Electrical School in Priboj, and then the Office for Public Investments. Then, the Public Investment Office allocates 407m dinars for the complete reconstruction of the machine-electrical school in Priboj, the elementary school "Desanka Maksimovic" and the gymnasium of the school. Then in the same programme, we expect it for the primary school "Vlidimir Perić Valter" in Prijepolje, then the elementary school "Bosko Buha" in Prijepolje. Then, in the same programme, we expect the reconstruction of Zivko Ljujic elementary school in Novi Varoša. You were ministers in Sevojn, at Alexa Dajovic elementary school, where your ministry allocated 60 million dinars for reconstruction of the school hall. You have seen how dual education works in Užica, especially in an exceptional company such as Impol Seval, which you also visited recently. Dear Minister, you've heard a lot of criticism about all this, in a way, and that's what Dositej Obradovic said, there are and the worst are those people who oppose the enlightenment and education of the people. If I could, the sun would go out. Some of them said they were the most educated, so none of them should have put their index next to Alexander Vukic's index. They said they were the smartest, the most capable, so they left behind a wasteland, they said they left everything behind, and the people said in the previous election they were little more than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31599	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31600	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as someone who worked for 40 years in agriculture, as someone who worked for 5 and a half years in IMT, it is a pleasure to have again brought us honest rodents, scrapers, welders, metals, and others to work. They will no longer be unemployed, fired and underpaid. I believe that time, the time of evil brought by the party of the former regime, along with the bankruptcy directors, far behind us. The last bread should also be given to those who work in industry and those who work in agriculture. Serbia should develop, in my opinion, not energy, in agriculture, in the processing industry and in the service of the three branches, equipment production, and therefore I welcome that the IMT that once produced 800 million marks per year, which produced 400,000 tractors, trailers, IMT Književec, single-axe tractors, that IMT will achieve this same production, if not immediately, then for years that are ahead because we have 400,000 bi-axial tractors that are 20 years old on average. We also need to target the subsidies in the future, when production starts to purchase domestic machinery and in a certain way, as much as possible to favour, this type of production. As far as agriculture is concerned, we need qualified high school farmers, we need cattlemen, we need fruit farmers, we need agronomists. In order to achieve this, we need to raise our agricultural production and it cannot be based solely on warfare, we cannot give as a party to the former regime to 30,000 hectares of certain tycoons that immediately break up farms, workers from the farm fired, the slaughterhouse industry leaving without any raw materials, we have to work the other way around. We export corn and livestock food for 800,000m euros, which totals more than four million tonnes, which is food for feeding stock that would weigh about a billion pounds and its value of living scale would be two billion. Then, the Public Investment Office allocates 407m dinars for the complete reconstruction of the Machine and Electrical School in Priboj, the elementary school "Desanka Maksimovic" and the gymnasium of the school. Then in the same programme, we expect it for the primary school "Vlidimir Perić Valter" in Prijepolje, then the elementary school "Bosko Buha" in Prijepolje. Then, in the same programme, we expect the reconstruction of Zivko Ljujic elementary school in Novi Varoša. You were ministers in Sevojn, at Alexa Dajovic elementary school, where your ministry allocated 60 million dinars for reconstruction of the school hall. You have seen how dual education works in Užica, especially in an exceptional company such as Impol Seval, which you also visited recently. Dear Minister, you've heard a lot of criticism about all this, in a way, and that's what Dositej Obradovic said, there are and the worst are those people who oppose the enlightenment and education of the people. If I could, the sun would go out. Some of them said they were the most educated, so none of them should have put their index next to Alexander Vukic's index. They said they were the smartest, the most capable, so they left behind a wasteland, they said they left everything behind, and the people said in the previous election they were little more than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31601	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31602	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as someone who worked for 40 years in agriculture, as someone who worked for 5 and a half years in IMT, it is a pleasure to have again brought us honest rodents, scrapers, welders, metals, and others to work. They will no longer be unemployed, fired and underpaid. I believe that time, the time of evil brought by the party of the former regime, along with the bankruptcy directors, far behind us. The last bread should also be given to those who work in industry and those who work in agriculture. Serbia should develop, in my opinion, not energy, in agriculture, in the processing industry and in the service of the three branches, equipment production, and therefore I welcome that the IMT that once produced 800 million marks per year, which produced 400,000 tractors, trailers, IMT Književec, single-axe tractors, that IMT will achieve this same production, if not immediately, then for years that are ahead because we have 400,000 bi-axial tractors that are 20 years old on average. We also need to target the subsidies in the future, when production starts to purchase domestic machinery and in a certain way, as much as possible to favour, this type of production. As far as agriculture is concerned, we need qualified high school farmers, we need cattlemen, we need fruit farmers, we need agronomists. In order to achieve this, we need to raise our agricultural production and it cannot be based solely on warfare, we cannot give as a party to the former regime to 30,000 hectares of certain tycoons that immediately break up farms, workers from the farm fired, the slaughterhouse industry leaving without any raw materials, we have to work the other way around. We export corn and livestock food for 800,000m euros, which totals more than four million tonnes, which is food for feeding stock that would weigh about a billion pounds and its value of living scale would be two billion. So we lose 1.2 billion just by exporting cattle, and then exporting meat of dubious quality from these countries. If we make this meat live scales in our butchers, not just in our finals, into cans, but in a semi-final product, we'll make four billion instead of two billion to find jobs for both farmers in the fields and for factory workers. To find bread and work for everyone, it's a foreign currency of my party called People's Peasants, and I believe that the currency is shared by all of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31603	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31604	Only if you allow me to get involved in this discussion, what MP Risticevic said, in the last year and a half we realized that agricultural schools are very important and it is a great resource, can I tell you that they are one of the best in Serbia. Those who still need to reach that level, Minister Nedimovic and I, and as we support and support, modern equipment enters, have enough countries, enough machinery, are all extremely or most rated with the highest marks, fours and these are small factories. If anyone can come to Serbia and look for a good location for the food industry anywhere, they will find it right near such schools. Not to count them, there are dozens of them, I'm going to hurt someone, if I just count some, but I think we're very proud of them, and most of them are at the top. I also have to say about many discussions of MPs yesterday and today, and about investment in schools. Indeed, that it may not be my merit, nor Mark Blagojevic, nor Anna Brnabić. The whole story was initiated by the current president, former Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. We just kept going. I've never said that, but it's fair and clear to say, so, the investment engine, to force the whole story, and certainly to me as a minister and a school man, it's one of the total teamwork when it comes to the president, the Prime Minister, the Investment Office, which is usually doing most of the work for us. Less works for project management units, which is already decided by the Government in 2016. We do a little less work, part of it for self-government and this synergy of all that money, all of these needs lead to a solution that in Palanca, in the centre of constipation, more than 300,000 are allocated even though we don't have partners, but it will come because they are excellent teachers, directors and workers working there. They're trained for many things. I also visited schools in Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varosha, Sevojna, all of what you mentioned, and these huge investments have just all this to make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31605	National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31606	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am like a folk MP who comes from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig Municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city, which is the city of Nis, submitted an amendment to Article 2 with a desire to place an accent on underdeveloped areas. Areas in which we should invest, from areas where investment is now being invested, and I have seen a lot of things since 2014 much wider than when I was president of the Municipality of Srljig. Otherwise, I am also the president of the United Peasants' Party, as Mr Risticevic says, we from these political options, which are prefixed by peasants, want to make as much a contribution to villages and agriculture as possible. I am putting more emphasis on the development of undeveloped areas, and that is exactly what our President Vukic, who has been with us in the tour of all of our small municipalities and has given his engagement wind in the back to develop such environments. Here we are in the work of local self-government, back a few days we made a congregation decision, where as a local self-government we single out 5,000 dinars for every student who enrolls the first grade of high school in Srlig, and 7,500 dinars we give for whoever wants to enter the direction of dual education, because we want to make sure that the greater number of young people learn to be trained through the stimulation given by local self-government. I can say that the Municipality of Srlig has no debts, no responsibilities and I think the Municipality of Srlig is an example of the municipality, and as the household is respected and done, as far as local self-government is concerned. Otherwise, as President of the USS, I want this amendment to be put on as much of an accent as possible for underdeveloped areas and to invest, to work in these areas. We did it with us in Srlig municipality, school, complete reconstruction, and now it's planned to do a physical hall that started working in the 1990s. I expect that by investing in education, by investing in infrastructure, we will have the opportunity to ensure a better life for all of our citizens who live there. Once again, I say, from a small community, big people come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31607	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31608	Supporting MP Miletic's idea to discuss underdeveloped municipalities, regions, cities, regardless of the government's failure to accept this amendment, considering that the proposal's formulation is quite adequate and that it connects well enough with the European Qualifications Framework. But whether it remains in the voting process, and if it remains, I will vote in favour, not only because of the content of the amendments, but because of the idea of opening a dialogue on underdeveloped areas in Serbia, and what is the role of the National Qualifications Framework? What kind of knowledge do we need not have, colleague Nada Lazic and I just commented on Bruce as an undeveloped municipality on whose territory is the ski center of Kopalnik. Serbia contrasts with the damage of many living in Serbia, not necessarily. Sustainable development and there are other amendments that mention the 2030 Agenda which is also a good idea to introduce it as a topic, regardless of which the Government will not accept this law, but if these ideas and explanations remain seed that we should discuss the knowledge needed to balance the development of society, territory and state, then they will meet their purpose. What knowledge we need not to happen to us that we have an undeveloped municipality in whose territory, I hope it is no longer so, but that Bruce is not the only place we mention, because there are such municipalities, parts of Serbia, regions and beyond the Ski Centre of Kopalnik. Insufficiently developed areas, not to remain with the echo of what was until 1990, with all the Fund for Undeveloped, but it was also a good idea, but to be a topic, to set up a dialogue on knowledge needed for balanced, balanced regional development in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31609	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31610	To get to know the public, since Bruce was mentioned as a municipality, according to some other stories, since I was recently in Bruce, there is also investing in school intensively. In the primary school building, funds are being prepared close to 60,000,000, and in a high school center with an area of over 77,000,000. As for the education of staff for the needs of the Bather, the hospitality, all of it, it's happening right now. At least let me say on this school side that the state invests and does a good choice of occupation and education, otherwise, it's very professionally represented in all schools, even though it's an undeveloped area.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31611	National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the intensity of my amendment is heading towards connecting the affirmation of acquired qualifications with strengthening the security structures and security capacities of the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, I would like to stress, since this is the topic of the current day, and this is the topic that has been highlighted by representatives of the former regime, i.e. the government that existed in Serbia until 2012, which concerns the harmful contract concluded in 2010 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Defence and the City of Nis, which Milos Simonovic represented in 2010, if I am not mistaken from the DS. The contract was damaging both by the Ministry of Defence, or by the Serbian Army, and it was so damaging for the city of Nis itself and, of course, it was harmful when it came to Constantin the Great Airport in Nis. Namely, its contractual obligation under the 2010 contract to the Ministry of Defence, as compensation for the transfer of real estate from Nis Military Airport to the city of Nis, the town of Nis did not execute. That is what Zoran Zivkovic and representatives of the former regime do not want to say. So the city of Nis has not fulfilled its obligation to the Ministry of Defence, although the contract between the Republic of Serbia and the town of Nis has set a deadline for the execution of the obligation. Otherwise, the contract was signed on 22 October 2010. The deadlines, Mr. Minister, to fulfil most of the city's obligations to the Republic of Serbia, set by the 2010 contract have long expired. The Republic of Serbia has fully fulfilled its obligations, in terms of transfer of immovableity, which means Nis Airport and the "Buban Heroes" barracks, as established in the 2011 Immobilisation Protocol. The same contract also envisions the financial obligation of the city of Nis to the Republic of Serbia in case the city fails to fulfil its obligations to the Republic of Serbia and fails to hand over agreed immovableities. What is being asked as a question, and this is a question for all those who ruled Serbia from the beginning of 2000 to 2012, for all those who campaign against Alexander Vukic and against the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of course against the leadership of the city of Nis, and for Zoran Zivkovic and Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic and all others, what if the Republic of Serbia at this point were to launch a judicial dispute because the city of Nis failed to fulfil its obligations to the Republic of Serbia, and concerning the "Constantin the Great" Airport in Nis? I just want to remind you how much damage the Ministry of Defense has done so far. So, since 2010, so far, the Republic of Serbia has transferred the right to use at the Constantin Great Airport in the city of Nis and has transferred the right to use the "Buban Heroes" barracks in Nis. The airport itself was estimated at 55m euros in 2010, and the Bucharest Heros barracks to slightly more than 11m euros. So I'm talking about very large numbers that tell you about the extent of the damage that former regime representatives have done to the Republic of Serbia. The only practically contractual obligation that the city of Nis under the leadership of the DS realised towards the Ministry of Defence was to allocate 32 apartments of a total area of 2,380 square meters and a total value of slightly less than 2m euros. However, what has not been done as an obligation of the city of Nis since 2010, according to the Ministry of Defence is the obligation under the contract, which is that 21% of the planned housing on the site of the "Buban heroes" that the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the use of the city of Nis, so that the city of Nis is obliged to be in a position to build apartments for the needs of the Ministry of Defence for five years, the first year plan is to make technical documentation and to build 25% of the buildings every year. I now have here in front of me a table that says that this obligation of the town of Nisa, so to build apartments for the needs of members of the Serbian Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in the town of Nis, has been carried out by 0%. These are those who lecture us today on how today's leadership of the city of Nis has made a disastrous decision because it has decided to give Nis to the state of Serbia, and while the leadership of the city of Nis under the leadership of the DS, it has made its commitment to the Ministry of Defence, with 0% and, of course, it has done enormous damage to the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. Unlike the DS and all other parties leading Serbia until 2012, unlike Zoran Zivkovic, unlike Boris Tadic, who systematically destroyed all the resources of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Ministry of Defence launched only last year an important project to build apartments for the needs of members of Serbia's defence ministry and in 2017, a policy to strengthen the operational capabilities of the Serbian Army continued. Due to lack of time, I will only say that in 2017 the following activities, 48 exercises of command and units and 15 encampment units of the Serbian Army were realized. The basic training was carried out by 497 soldiers of the Serbian Army, and the special training of 538 soldiers on voluntary military service. A multi-day and one-day training course with 2,067 people from the reserve staff in the Serbian Army and units has been implemented since last year, a practically permanent public competition for the admission of professional soldiers to the Serbian Army. In 2017 alone, 1,114 professional soldiers were admitted to the Serbian Army. I have submitted this amendment in my desire to support these efforts by the state of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence and to continue to explain the amendments, and I will try to convince Mr. Minister that with this policy, strengthening the operational capabilities of the Serbian Army and all other capacities should continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31613	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31614	You of course didn't hear what was now said? You didn't hear, okay. You still don't hear what they're saying? You can't hear. The creation of a farce of this Parliament continues, as the previous speaker took advantage of the opportunity to bring forth a mass of untruths, which of course have no connection under a) to the truth, b) to me, under c) with the agenda point, I will have to give in self-defense several answers which are explicitly placed by my name and last name. Of course it is the theme of that hijacking of Nislim airport. It is not the question that someone would put it on their backs and transfer it, I thought ministers and ministers in the Serbian government knew it was impossible, even if they wanted to, but if there was a dirty job, it was more than obvious. All kinds of lies have been told. One of these is that some authorities have done nothing before. Unfortunately, I was president of the Nish City Assembly at the time that airport was bombed. I witnessed the deaths of people at that airport, next to that airport, not just by the airport, in the whole of Nis, so it's an experience I'll never forget. After the bombing, the airport was restored. I had the same accident, but also the honor of being president of the Serbian government on the first summer from Belgrade to Nis, when the airport opened, if I remember well at the beginning, at the end of the summer and early in the autumn of 2003. That's when he got his name. There was no doubt at the time that the civilian part of the airport had nothing to do with the Yugoslav Army. It's possible that it was part of the military, since it was an airport with two purposes, both civil and military, at least then, so that second part of the airport might have been owned by the military. First of all, there were objects that were waved down in the bombing and probably part of the runway and other technical means. So Nis Airport has been operational since, say, September 2003, and then, with the help of the Government of the Kingdom of Norway and the funds of the City of Nis and with the logistics assistance of Serbia, the airport opened and started to operate. Of course, with the development of the Lou bone companies and the Lou bone traffic, there has been an improvement in the operation of the airport and it is certain that today there are 100 times more flights, or passengers, than there were five six years ago, there are no doubts, but these are reasons that this airport works well, not that it works badly, according to SNS authorities, both central and local. They say it's bad and it has to be taken to the city. How can something be bad if it's 100 times the traffic? It's very difficult to explain, no matter who hears or hears well, but there are logic and mathematics that learns somewhere up to the fourth base and it would be enough to analyse that if something has 100 times more traffic or 300 times more traffic, as it claims, from 1,300 and some passengers in 2010, to 380 and some thousands of passengers last year, it can't be damage, but can only benefit. The inability, illiterate management of the city of Nis has led the airport into a bad condition, if that is true, if the situation is bad, then it should be sent to prison, relocated and set up a new leadership that will be able to do its job in a valid way, and not transfer it to the hands of the Serbian government, which already has enough of its problems, which, of course, does not know that he is working with the Belgrade airport, so he must betray him to some French people who are smarter to fly with "Nikole Tesla" than anyone from Serbia. The contract mentioned in 2010, I was not involved, I was already six, seven years out of politics, without any influence. I'm not defending myself, just to say I don't know the details. But it certainly didn't say in that contract that 300 and some apartments or some money should be built within a year, but those contractual obligations were taken over by the new SNS authorities and other useful partners who established... (Alexander Martinovic: What is this now? )......................................................................................................... that they are unable to solve this problem, and they have had from 2012 to today, as far as I know in mathematics, one 5.5 years at least, maybe six whole. Therefore, the debt to the military, if there is, if the contract provides, if it has its undeniable facts to determine it, is not resolved by the previous management of the city that led the SNS as well. If I'm not mistaken, some surgeon was the mayor, and of course not from now on. Today the mayor... I don't know what a man of education, expertise and position is. Therefore, do not transfer responsibility to the past. In the past, unfortunately, the government, which I ran, had to lift that airport from the ashes that NATO bombs dropped it in and the public knows about and there are documents about it. It's clear how the day works. The airport was originally founded in 1980 and some years ago and let me tell you that until two, three years ago, there was a commercial of my private company, which was set up at that airport in 1986, so much about history. Just stay out of the way. Get out of here. Get out of here. Any one of us can pull out and say, "ex-government." Is that an ex-government that was in the '90s, is that an ex-government that was at the beginning of 2000? The easiest thing to say is that someone... But also those who are guilty of it, for some of the bad things that have been done, should answer not only politically, but also criminally. Here, I've been out of any government position since, if I remember correctly, somewhere in March 2004, and it's been more than 14 years since. Various investigations have been conducted and no procedure has been initiated that has anything to do with me about any lies. If it's tobacco, if it's a vineyard, if it's pumpkins, socks, I don't know what's on your mind. So that's where the lie is. Let's take a good look at yourself in the mirror, especially the previous speaker, who is obviously the most beautiful among you, and the most honest and purest, and then see what you've been doing and let the citizens of Nis and Belgrade and all other cities in Serbia no longer listen to tons and tons of fictional lies, but let the real problems be solved, and the authorities are responsible, the current government. And 15 years ago, 20 years ago, and today, the current government is in charge and responsible for solving problems. I invite you to finally start doing it and stop playing one, for the hundredth time I'm going to repeat, I don't have a better comparison, I don't have a poor, pointless opera show.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31615	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31616	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, did not respond when my fellow farmers were pictured of sheep. So, I don't know where he saw sheep in the congregation? He probably got it from the doorman's pasture, but he was here trying to offend fellow MPs, but he couldn't do it. It's hard to insult yourself better than yourself, and worse than him, I've never seen. Today we have a case that someone who escaped from Nis, someone who unfortunately was the prime minister, someone who before the prime minister was killed, along with Red Berets, celebrated probably the destination and conquest of the airport in Nis, today we listened to his protection of Nis, the protection of Nisli, probably those Nisli who were told to throw bills into barrels with fire, so they later paid interest. We listened to a man who tried to insult us, who took the place of the late prime minister, although together with this man, Interior Minister Mihajlovic, he was federal, and this one was republican, allowed the prime minister to be killed before entering the government in March 2003. Then he took his place, and along with this other man, he ruled Serbia, unfortunately, and that is why she is a curse – I hope Zivkovic was your prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31617	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I'm afraid I haven't noticed what you're pointing at. I will review, of course, the stenographic notes later, but once again, I would like to appeal to all MPs that through discussion and discussion, the amendments take care of the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of each MP, both the positions and the opposition. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: No. I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I admit that I also smuggled pumpkins and I'm ugly and I'm stupid and I'm a sheep. I also admit that I moved from Nis to Belgrade to a 200-square apartment, I admit everything, but I want to ask Mr. Zivkovic, when he cares so much about the interests of the citizens of Nis, related to Constantin the Great Airport, why when he was prime minister, when he was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia did not transfer ownership or utility from the Republic of Serbia to the City of Nis? So he could have done it in 2003, but he didn't do it. What I want to say, which Mr. Zivkovic obviously doesn't understand, is that the debts of the city of Nis towards the Republic of Serbia, above all to the Ministry of Defence, are currently 64m euros. The city of Nis doesn't have that money. Debt was created because of a harmful contract signed between the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the City of Nis, which at the time was the mayor of Mr Milos Simonovic of the DS. Therefore, almost nothing has been done to fulfil the obligations of the city of Nis towards the Ministry of Defence and this has caused great damage to the state of Serbia, and in particular great damage to the defence ministry and Serbia's military. To remind you, the obligations of the city of Nis, that is what representatives of the former regime will not tell the citizens of Nis and the citizens of Serbia, and it is important to say that they would understand how much their harmful policy has destroyed Serbian society and the Serbian economy. So the obligations of the city of Nis to the Republic of Serbia under the 2010 contract are: the transfer of nearly 158 hectares of Serbia to the territory of the city of Nis, almost nothing is fulfilled. Thirty-two apartments for members of the Army, that was done immediately. Twenty-one per cent of the future total built-up area of living space at the site of the "Buban Heroes" barracks worth nearly 21m euros, absolutely nothing has been done. The percentage of the city's commitment to the Republic of Serbia to Nis is zero per cent. In the period from 2010 to today, Serbia's military, as I have already said, only 32 apartments totalling 2m euros and 158 hectares of land were handed over, slightly less than six hectares of land worth 55,000 euros. I hope it is now clear to Mr. Zivkovic that the city of Nis with its economic capacities cannot fulfil the contractual obligation towards the Republic of Serbia, which was created in 2010 when its former party managed the state of Serbia and managed the city of Nis. Just because he's retired from politics doesn't mean he's retired from public life. He continued to devastate the Republic of Serbia economically because in 2007 he illegally took subsidies for the vineyard, which he allegedly planted in November, i.e. subsidies he received in April, and the vineyard was planted in November 2007, which my colleague Risticevic spoke of several times in this assembly. What I also want to say is that Nis Airport is a successful public enterprise, but only thanks to the unreserved financial support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is what representatives of the former government, the pest government, the authority that has caused enormous damage, which devastated the city of Nis, and we now try to make the town of Nis an economic giant in southern Serbia. Therefore, because of this pest control, Constantin the Great Airport in Nis could not function regularly. Thanks to the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, we have an increase in the number of aircraft and the number of passengers at the airport and data on this. In 2009 alone, there were 349 planes, i.e. takeoffs and landings at the airport, so that in 2017 there would be 1,477 flights and landings at the airport. As far as the goods are concerned, there's nothing special to talk about. In 2009, there were 390 tonnes of goods transported from Constantin Veliki Airport in Nis, and 2,542 tonnes in 2017. I think it is clear from this data that without support, financial, first of all, support, material, logistics, technical support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Constantin the Great Airport in Nis simply couldn't work, could not even work in a way that only pays salaries to airport employees. That's what the citizens of Nis need to know and that's what the citizens of Serbia need to know. No one from the government of Serbia, nor the Prime Minister, nor the minister of traffic, nor will the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, "Constantin the Great" Airport, put it in his pocket and become no one's private property. It will continue to remain in Nis, available to the citizens of Nis, only now it will become a single company that will be able to function so that the city of Nis is freed from obligations that objectively cannot meet the Republic of Serbia and that this company will become even more efficient than it has been before. And as you can see, from 2014 to 2017 JP Constantin Great Airport in Nis is a successful company, but thanks to the financial support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I must point out as a lawyer, which Mr. Zivkovic does not want to say, and because the Government of the Republic of Serbia understood the difficult financial situation in the city of Nis and did not seek by judicial means the enforcement of its contractual rights under the 2010 contract it had towards the city of Nis and towards the Constantin Great Airport in Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31619	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic: By amendment. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31620	Of course I'm entitled to a replica, I've been mentioned ten times. But if you don't understand, it's not a problem, I can spend this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31621	You haven't been mentioned since I chaired.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31622	You didn't hear, look later, let's not waste any time now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31623	Well, we can take a look. But even if you were mentioned, it was just an answer to what the government did and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31624	So in 2003, there was no institution of property of local self-government, so that no city, Belgrade then had any property, no Vojvodina had property, no municipalities and cities. So, to a very lawyer, to teach him a little bit, that in 2003 it was impossible for the Prime Minister or the Government or anyone to transfer it to anyone. The city could have been a user, as it was. That contract about some, I don't know, 300 apartments, that I believe it exists. As I recall, it was to be built by an American firm that the city of Nis sold its former barracks "Buban heroes". The president of your party, as a candidate for the president of the state and as prime minister, has twice attended the funeral of a cornerstone in the same place, for the same objects that have never begun. And some American ambassador kept him company, and you like to call him Scott, Scott, whatever you want. And it was nothing. So it's about who's capable, who's capable of power, who's incompetent. I'm accused of, it's probably the level of high treason, because I moved from Nis to Belgrade. I would like anyone who has something to do with the right to educate, perhaps you, the chairman, to educate a fellow MP, and to tell him that the right to freedom of movement and housing in Serbia has long been justified and that no one living can ban it from anyone. Of course, I didn't become a Belgrade citizen, I stayed Nischli, of course, but now in Belgrade. Stan, the size of the apartment is a complete failure, like one of those piles of lies, sorry, untrue, about that unfortunate vineyard. So here's what I'm gonna teach you, more for the public. The subsidy is obtained by planting the vineyard, and then you get that subsidy, when the state makes sure you're planted. Vinograd was planted in April, I think, 2007, and the subsidy was received in October 2007, which was found, and only one man, former secretary of state, was investigated by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. So organized crime thought that one man organized himself, because the definition of organized crime, to teach some colleagues, implies the participation of more people than some of them are part of the state administration. No, against only one man, who was held in custody for 50 days and who was released from any charges half a year ago. I hope he's suing the state for the damage he's been inflicted on him. Thus, the mass of falseness, even with such media in Serbia, even if repeated in the most brutal, most ground-based way, will never become true. You can make up whatever you want, you can try to insult me in any way. I crossed from Nis to Belgrade, it's something dangerous, so some of them were better off staying on a tree, or they or their ancestors, without coming down, but of course it's part of the evolution that no one can prevent.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31625	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31626	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. A colleague of Zivkovic's told noorous lies. So here are copies of the original documents and if they're not true, I'm offering my resignation and never coming to parliament again. If these are copies of the original documents, then the violation of dignity has been proven in this case by Mr. Zivkovic to resign. This is a regulation on the planting of vineyards, spring fruit in 2007. So in the spring of 2007, you had to have a farm home and you had to have land to plant on. In the spring of 2007, Mr. Zivkovic had plots, Krajkovac, of 1.1 hectares from Merošin, owned by his wife Biserka Zivkovic and no longer owned a piece of land, and reportedly planted 42 hectares on a 52-vine plot in Krcedin in the spring of 2007. The land was leased in November 2007. This is a copy of the contract. The contract was signed on his behalf by one of the directors, Jaroslav Stuparski, MK Komerca. The money they received, 525,000 euros, was distributed by one-third of the MK Komerc, the second-third "Agrounia", owned by MK Komerc, and the third-third was transferred by "Empres" whose owner and director was him. He kept that third third of the money to himself. (President: Bring the end. ) How did Mr. Zivkovic perform the spring planting in 2007 in November 2007? What spring is that in November? Let him answer, and I'm ready to resign, unless these documents are credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31627	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31628	I didn't say that moving from Nis to Belgrade is dangerous, but that it's expensive, because I don't understand how someone like the Prime Minister can buy an apartment of over 200 square meters, and he has a salary of 100,000 dinars. That thing doesn't make sense to me, but I'm not going back to it anymore. Mr. Zivkovic says -- if there is a famous contract related to Konstantin Veli airport in Nis, I will now show it that Serbian citizens see it and that you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, therefore, have concluded the contract between the Republic of Serbia represented by the Director of the Republic Property Directorate, Bratislava Pejkovic, and the city of Nis, represented by the mayor of the city of Nis Milos Simonovic. The contract was entered into the City Administration of Nis under number 2887/2010. It was otherwise signed on 22 October 2010. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, in his good old custom, doesn't know what he's saying. So it wasn't 300 apartments, it was 32 apartments that the city of Nis immediately gave to the Serbian Army, but where did the problem arise? A problem has arisen in fulfilling a contractual obligation that neither the city of Nis nor in 2018 objectively can meet, which is to build apartments for the needs of the Serbian Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army at the site of the "Buban Heroes" barracks in Nis. In 2010, it was also known that the city of Nis does not have that financial capacity, as is known today, but someone in a desire to deceive the citizens of the city of Nis said it was possible and thus created a 64m-euro debt of the city of Nis to the Republic of Serbia. So, for this debt, Zoran Zivkovic, Simonovic, Boris Tadic, DS and all those who led Serbia until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31629	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31630	So it would be nice for you to tell the Serbian public when the contract is fulfilled. Is it 2010, 2011, 2012, or maybe later, and then let's see who's responsible for the failure? These apartments were supposed to be made at the site of the former barracks "Buban Heroes", they were supposed to be made by this phantom American firm where all officers and leaders of various authorities stood beside them like, not to say, and did nothing, and it had nothing to do with me in March 2004. As far as the move is concerned, that's what we've absorbed. As for the Prime Minister's salary, it was much less in my day. Otherwise, the euro was, not 120, as far as I was now, when I was Prime Minister, 67 dinars, and my salary was about 30 and some thousands. So you count one 300, 400 euros, much less the one you... Where did my property come from? Let me tell you, in addition to the non-existent law on the origin of property, there is a current Financial Police Act, I think Article 83, 84, I'm not sure which one allows tax authorities to examine the property of every citizen of Serbia. That law was passed in my day and, unfortunately, I am the only politician over whom it was applied. Of course, it's all clear, there's no doubt about it. It's been checked more than once, but I'm sorry you're not given the opportunity to prove yourself clean in front of that law. Therefore, less untrue, more work and it will benefit Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31631	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this US-speaking firm, Zoran Zivkovice, brought it to the insistence of the US ambassador then, the then mayor of Nis Milos Simonovic. Aleksandar Vukic never laid any stone foundation for building apartments at the site of the former "Buban Heroes" barracks in Nis. It's another lie and another lie, but not because of Zoran Zivkovic. It's a man who's not worth explaining to. That's the man who did it and how he did it in life. From someone who was a bootlegger, he became Prime Minister, like that first Jewish Emperor Saul who found the emperor's crown in the grass, looking for lost donkeys. That's what happened to Zoran Zivkovic and I congratulate him on that. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to say something that is very important. In 2010, when a contract was signed between the city of Nis and the state of Serbia, the town of Nis was known to have no financial and economic capacity to meet its obligations to the state of Serbia. The problem arose in 2010. We today in 2018, when I say I also think about the leadership of the city of Nis and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we in the Assembly support unreservedly and absolutely, we try to solve this problem, that Nis be an economic giant in southern Serbia, that we bring investors to Nis, hire people and free the city of Nis from a commitment that he cannot fulfil. It could not be completed in 2010, nor could it be fulfilled in 2018. But the responsibility for this lies with those who signed a harmful contract across the city of Nis in 2010 and made commitments, which is what Nis citizens should know, the city of Nis towards the state of Serbia of 64m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31633	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31634	And by the way, there's been another attempt of insult, but in those lies about coats, and I don't know what it's all about, nobody believes it anymore, because I'm just old enough and I have enough documents and people who know it. I haven't seen Bundu in my life. But it's not that I'm making excuses, it's just that it's pointless. Think of something else. Think of something a little more. I've told you before that he's at that airport, which you say he's doing very well, but he's got to have the help of the state, so whoever's doing his job is paying taxes to the state and he doesn't need a country tax, these are the rules that will convince you of the vice president who's sitting there and who doesn't run the session, and who understands that. So if something fails, then he needs the help of the state, and if it's successful, then the state doesn't need it, but the state pays the tax. In 1987, I set up a contract organisation of joint work, which was then called, and worked until 1996, when I entered politics a little deeper than I was supposed to do, for my own sake and for my family. But it was my duty as a man who loves this country and wants to make his contribution to it as a normal country for the life of future generations. There's nothing dirty about my career. As much money as I've taken from the state, so much so that you live together, all of you who are here. Of all the coats that have gone through my hands, so much intelligence and so much intelligence that you have. Make up something new. For example, there were more nonsense -- in 1999, the Army gave me a million and a half euros to buy ammunition for tanks. It's highest-level jerkism. But it makes a little more sense, it's a little more of a ghost than a miserable story about miserable pumpkins.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31635	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31636	Here, I'm really interested in what's-his-name and this business that Zoran Zivkovic was doing. When we mention pumpkins, he says, "I haven't seen pumpkins in my life." When we mention the vineyard, he has not seen a vineyard in his life. When we mention the apartment on Vračar – he has not seen the apartment on Vračar in his life. When we mention the black jeep that drives, he hasn't seen a black jeep in his life. So what kind of work did Mr. Zoran Zivkovic do as a businessman? What's the name of that job? What area of economy is this business done by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and his family? Because of the citizens of Serbia, I repeat again. The damage to the state of Serbia, to the Ministry of Defence, but the damage to the city of Nis also occurred in 2010. The city of Nis has not transferred nearly 158 hectares of the country to Serbia's military. He did not build apartments at the site of the former "Buban Heroes" barracks in Nis. The value of this land is almost 21m euros. In 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, therefore, for four years from Nis, therefore, the citizens of Nis must know this, from the Nis budget of the city of Nis, the subsidies were given to foreign companies, not JAT, foreign companies, Montenegro Airlines 2.7m euros and Wind Jet almost a million euros, in order for Nis Airport to be alive at all. In other words, in order to land "Montenegro Airlines" at the airport, the citizens of Nis had to pay the subsidies to the "Montenegro Airlines". In order for Wind Jet to land at Constantin the Great Airport, the citizens of Nis had to pay for it, otherwise the airport would be shut down in 2010, 2011 or 2012. That's what Nischli needs to know, and it all came about as a result of a bad 2010 contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31637	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31638	Of course, the contract on the drum heroes cassary, whatever it says, has nothing to do with the airport, but it's not that, I can't explain it, it needs to be understood. The question is, what was my firm doing? Here, if you're listening, in 1987, the firm, for example, participated in a tender for the equipment of the Centre for Marxism of Belgrade University. Some Jagos Puric was chairman of the board of directors. There was a tender and we won both the Hanivel Bul and IBM and the Dijital and sold to the Centre for Marxism of Belgrade University IT equipment worth over 100,000 marks. The first PC computers at the Faculty of Forests in Belgrade, the following year, 1988, were also sold through a tender by a company called Supertim. Afterwards, the company "Supertim", which had its headquarters in Alexinac, was integrated with the company Tehnomeding from Nis and for the next seven-eight years the company, which had eight to 15 employees, was engaged in the service of electromedical equipment and the supply of health facilities to consumer medical materials, in the territory of the entire former Yugoslavia, and after falling apart on the territory of what was left. She was also involved in exporting white techniques to Bulgaria, and she imported in compensation from Bulgaria what was lacking in sanctions to Serbia, and it was not oil and derivatives and other frauds, but was an offset paper, photocopier paper, a mass of things that were tied up, even technical ones for pouring the streets that were iced. So that's what you know. And at that airport, and I end up, from December 1988 to three years ago, so that's 20 years and a few years ago, almost 30 years ago, when it comes in, the entire right wall, which is half of this space here, there's written "Technomeding" Nis. That was written 15 years after and 20 years after the disappearance of that company that went into liquidation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31639	I thank my colleague Zivkovic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you heard the same thing I heard, which is that at the time of self-government socialism in 1987, the SIZs, self-government organisations of joint work, as they were already called, called, called, called, said, tender, so in 1987, at the time of self-government socialism with their company of eight employees... (Zoran Zivkovic: With two. )......................................................................................................... With two employees, he said, in the IBM tender, all the big companies in the world and he equipped, watch out, Mr. Sarčević, you remember that time better than I, I only read about it, at the time of the socialist self-management of SIZ, SOUR,OUR, the Law of Associated Labour, etc., Zoran Zivkovic with two employees won the IBM tender and then with those computers, washing machines, whatever he was doing, the equipment of a Marxist centre in Belgrade. If that's true, then something really is wrong with either Mr. Zivkovic or me. So, here it's a fat lie to that extent that I think even those who believe in the Lohnes Monster can't believe it. It is unfortunate that we should return to the serious subject, which in 2018 we must correct the mistakes made by someone more than eight years ago and inflict damage on the city of Nis, which is measured in millions of euros. To be perfectly accurate. The debts of the City of Nis at this time, that citizens should know nothing and should be told by those who allegedly care about their interests, amount to 64m euros to the state of Serbia. I'm asking the question again. What if the Government of the Republic of Serbia were "the legion of artis" by respecting the treaty... (President: You are bringing the end of your colleague Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... Set up a court dispute against the City of Nis over its failure to fulfil its contractual obligations to the state of Serbia, according to the defence ministry and Serbia's military. Shall I tell you what would happen? The city of Nis would have bankrupted just as Serbia would have bankrupted in 2012 if they had remained in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31641	Thank you. Since I see where this is going, now in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31642	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Obradovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31643	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The NOKS bill is being reviewed in the introduction of a new item 15, which defines the affirmation of acquired qualifications with special reference to the functioning of public enterprises. So, I also expect this amendment to give strong support to the bill and define the need for affirmation of acquired qualifications. As in the amendment to Article 1 of my amendment, it is better to function in public enterprises. The education of future personnel, as well as the proper redistribution of the same personnel, will make the country's overall progress, and thus the public sector of the Republic of Serbia will be better and more functional. After years of collapse, the SNS has taken over a country destroyed by corruption and crime, in one word negligently, we have launched a process and now we are taking a safe step forward. All of this is seen by citizens who, from election to election, were presidential, parliamentary or local, giving us greater and greater confidence. Despite the difficulties that we face every few times, we will continue to renew and promote the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like to remind Mr. Minister that in Serbia, in the suburban village of Futog, near Novi Sad there is a agricultural school we are, I hope, the ministers together are proud. It's not just a school, it's a trust me fellow MPs, a little combination. A combination of which serious care is being taken by both the Resort Ministry and local self-government. Mayor Milos Vučević closely monitors the school's events, and he earnestly advocates providing them with support in every way. What we expect from you, Mr. Minister, and all in accordance with this bill, is that in the coming period, both other schools and agriculture schools really educate the staff that will be found in this framework of qualifications, so that we have educated people who will be able to materialize immediately at the scene tomorrow. Here, on this occasion, Minister, I invite you to visit the Agriculture School in Futoga with your associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31644	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31645	The living truth about the school in Futoga, but I didn't want to mention any, now I have to mention another 20. So, I was supposed to come twice and everything was holding me back, sending my associates. The truth is that the city of Novi Sad is also very concerned. Don't worry at all about all all the tools that create our agricultural schools, in the vast majority, every employer will wish to have them. They are trained, the IT system and the sector is already made, we have already digitized together with the Biosens Institute right in Vojvodina, near Backa Topola. So, our schools in both Ruma and Šapac and Valjevo and Svilinac and Zrenjanin, now really don't mind if I don't count them, they're all extremely high-quality institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31646	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31647	Thank you very much. Citizens of Serbia who, some went to the elections when we were elected, some are not, but all are in a position to actually see what this debate is about the supposed amendments of the ruling majority. It is a tendency to affirm the work of the authorities, to glorify the party's representatives, these parties, their participation in government and alleged successes, and that is clear to all, there is no doubt there. But the question is, does that make sense? Does that not diminish the value of the institution we are in? I think so. Here's another piece of evidence for that. Members of the ruling majority have submitted several hundred amendments to the first few members of this law, which is the first in line to spend time under discussion. Members of the Independent Members' Club have submitted 154 amendments, five of us. Of your 500 and some amendments, as I've seen, none of them have been adopted. That means it's a piece of paper and ink for everything you've written. Of these 154 were adopted 24, which someone could declare with a 13 point something percent compared to what was invested. So we can measure who here is joking and thinks he's having a good time, and who's doing his job properly. So, of the 154 amendments addressed to the improvement or the essence of the text or the text itself, that it be closer to the Serbian language than it was to the draft laws, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has your support, has accepted 24, making them a contribution to making these laws clearer, more quality and useful to Serbia's citizens, and of your 600 and something they have rejected all or almost everything. It's actually a clear picture of what's going on here. No matter what the mass of falsehood is, no matter what the attempt of an insult is on a daily basis, which is at any time possible, I would like you to just face it, to have someone tell you – let's write 700 amendments, and we will refuse them everything, but that's very good for Serbia and for our party, and you say – okay. It's on the level of your mind like someone says a company is successful, but it can't live without state subsidies. It's not that a man can't be a doctor of legal science, whoever he is, no matter how beautiful, smart, and how good he hears, but it's a child in the first grade, people are praised here that they're from education, I'm glad he has people from education in the O.R., but it's a lack of basic logic. It's something that's complete nonsense. Therefore, if someone wants to rally, as I hear a pleasant voice trying to do it when I say it, there is also a place, a collection, electricity, connection, and a rally can be paid, and you can strike at that rally and strike thirst, hunger and non-breathing, or whatever you want, or you can make a magnificent gathering with 10,000 present buses, but it is not the job of the MPs. Look at what it says in the Serbian Constitution, what the Serbian Parliament is, look at what it says in the Law on the Serbian Parliament, look at what is the obligation of the MPs, look at the oath that we all took, we swore we'd work on Serbia's well-being and look at ourselves when someone tells you -- now write some nonsense, and we'll say no to you, but we'll waste their time. That is the essence of what you are doing, you are wasting time, but not the opposition, unfortunately, you are wasting time on the citizens of Serbia. I urge you to stop this practice and that the next time you write amendments these amendments have both the beginning and the end and that you aim to improve the laws just as the MP group of the Independent Members' Club did in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31648	Comrade Eagle, you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31649	Thank you very much. We've been talking about these amendments these days, and just yesterday we're reminding one of them who also shows up when he thinks he's had enough sleep, and in the meantime he misses everything we had to say. We told you about him, so it should happen again this time. Three times fewer proposed amendments by the SNS parliamentary group compared to those proposed on the other side of the hall. So whatever someone has to say on the subject of the number of amendments, let them be aware that they speak about themselves with those words three times as much and three times as they do about us, if that bothers them. It cannot, of course, be compared to some parliamentary group, practically non-existent, in a fundamental sense, therefore, group made of grills of various groups that have fallen apart. Anything written cumulatively on the other side of the hall can be compared to us if you want to talk about it. If it's the time to discuss it, it's over 40 times yesterday, and it's easily verifiable, representatives of the so-called. The self-proclaimed opposition sought right to word, got it, used it their right, someone for a minute or two, someone for seven-eight minutes. Then who the hell does it bother? Who is the problem with our discussion, and who has the right, or the right, to deny it? Here in this room, ladies and gentlemen, there isn't, it doesn't exist. The proof that there's no such thing here and that it doesn't exist, let's just say, it's the best discussion ever. Four minutes is why you're wasting your time. Is someone denied the right to use their time that way? Of course not. Then why is our desire to bring things out here controversial to him, and we think they're important? For example, we believe it is important that the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, the people of Nis, hear what is true about their city, hear what is true about the problem that has been made precisely by those who are now feeling abject and caring for the fate of the airport. What is contentious to them is that we here say that there are good things achieved realistically in this country, among other things, e.g. The fact that the above-mentioned IBM on its list of Serbian states, based on the number of inhabitants, has declared it the most successful in investment? (President: Bringing the end. ) I will end this, Mr. Chairman, you will not believe, ladies and gentlemen, IBM said it as official data without complaining that something disastrous had been defeated in a staged international tender in 1987. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31650	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31651	Thank you. Well, I don't want to, of course, that we don't want to get involved in this debate, but based on Article 27. I am speaking to the Rules of Procedure, but I think that for the sake of the public, it should be known that MPs from other parliamentary groups have submitted amendments. We of the SRS have submitted to this law I mean 115 amendments, and we are here to explain each of the amendments submitted and not make objections to anyone who does the same, because submitting amendments to government proposals and is the job of all MPs. I have prayed several times before, and now I pray that when you fight so hard, that in such a strange way you place us in this side, we are MPs of the SRS, we are not on this side, nor on that side, we are an opposition political party, we do not mind any amendments, but we have submitted our amendments. We are confident for everyone and that it is meaningful and that we propose, for each of us and in the future we will propose to the Minister to accept them, confident that our amendments we wish, that we would indeed correct our amendments to the text of the proposed law. We'll do so in the future, we'll defend everything we write, because we don't do it in order, because we don't do it in time, but simply because it's the obligation of every MP if he thinks he has a need for it. So, this may not be the most classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask you, I have done that before, to draw attention to the MPs of the people to separate us from that group of opposition MPs who occasionally come here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31652	I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. You wanted to send your message. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? No, I don't. All right. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31653	Thank you, Chairman. The Rules of Procedure in Articles 106 and 107 in Article 106, paragraph 2, could be said, but 107, concerning the dignity of the National Assembly. I will remind you of only one historical record on March 27, 1933, Hitler set the state parliament on fire to take over unlimited power and unlimited rights. Again today, all of this seems to me to be an attempt to assume unlimited rights and unlimited power by silenceing the MPs of either side. The same happened to us on October 5, 2000, completely as in 1933, what was done in Germany, the parliament was set on fire, they took over the unlimited power and unlimited rights of the then DOS leaders, whose head was also this great protector of the Serbian parliament, Mr. Zivkovic, Gilas, Sutanovac, etc., etc. From these unlimited rights, this unlimited government produced everything that we are talking about today and that famous vineyard, and 500 000 euros, and an apartment of 200 square meters and a building on the pasture on Vratar, etc., etc. I ask you not to allow one such behavior in the future and to end all those who are simply trying to draw fog on Serbia and trying to make a forget about everything they did on October 5th 2000 and what they did up to a year and a half ago. Because everything that was done in Serbia until 2000, i.e. in central Serbia by 2012, in Vojvodina we had the opportunity to feel on our skin for up to a year and a half. With that in mind, I'm not asking you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, I'm asking you to warn the speakers only in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31654	A colleague of Vujadinovic, as you can see here, can speak almost anything he wants, only MPs and members of their families must not be offended. My colleague Rističević, you after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support the amendment that the colleague submitted. The government did not accept that amendment. Let's say, when the government rejects the opposition's amendment, then there's a wheezing, the government is like that, the apriori rejects the opposition's amendments, and when it adopts 20 and some amendments, then they're wrong again, instead of saying that the government is working on both the grandmother and the uncles, it works by quality, and it points not only to the value of the amendment, but also to the value of the government. I don't believe he proposed the amendments, I wrote. Here he was talking about some sense, and I'm going to end up saying that he's really rarely a smart man, but really rare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31656	By amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31657	That's right, yes, I said that it's a right play, of course everyone has the right to submit an amendment, but there are also some unwritten rules, it's called otherwise code, gentlemen's behavior, a good custom, and that means that MPs of the opposition, of course more use the right to propose amendments, because it's simply an indication of what they disagree with, even if it was only for ideological reasons, and not because it's a fundamentally bad thing, because everyone has the right to their own ideology, if it's not forbidden by law. Nowhere in the world, government deputies write hundreds of amendments, in a normal world, and that's most of the world, and it's completely pointless to write amendments to the government that you've chosen in hundreds of copies, a thousand. That's what you're saying is that the government didn't give good bill proposals, and then after that, the government rejects those amendments, and then you vote for the government's proposal. That's a little lame, that's a lot of crap. Since things are mentioned in this debate about this law, even the burning of the Assembly. It is true that the burning of Rajstaga was an attempt to make one fascist power, not opposition, fascist power, that was 1933 and read a little history, take all the power. The coup is a definition when the government takes more than what the Constitution and by law has the right, and not when the opposition or the national mass or foreign occupation, I don't know who, takes over. I have time, I'm talking about the amendment. That's who burned it on October 5th, so let me tell you, so check it out just like this with IBM and Digital. The last sentence, one of the participants in the burning of parliament on October 5th, is a photograph of the former director of Serbia's Elektro Network, known as the best man, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31658	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31659	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I'm advocating the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker really insulted us, not only the MPs, but all the students, students and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the students responded immediately when he said the code was an unwritten book. It's just the other way around. The codex is a book of at least two pages, written. I'm not surprised it comes from a previous speaker. I'm really recommending to him in some way that before some of the words he's using here, he peeks into the dictionary before he says them. I'm not asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31660	My colleague Atlagic, I really, totally agree with you that we have been listening to various insults here for six years. For the past six years, as far as I know in 2014, 2016 parliamentary elections, presidential elections and twice the Belgrade elections, one local and every time probably because of these insults and worse and they passed. I can't help them. Don't help them. Let them do it, we'll support their education or dissuasion, however you like. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) According to the amendment or the Rules of Procedure, Col. Rističević? (Marian Risicevic: By amendment.) ) Before you he has the word of his colleague Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31661	Although I am convinced that this answer will also be seen from the place where the person who caused the replica is presently located, I will not go into detail whether it is a restaurant or whether it is a cabinet in or out of the congregation, elsewhere. It is known, ladies and gentlemen, that Alexander Vukic has always advocated and fought against everything they have shown as his relationship with the institutions, including the burning of the National Assembly, so it is absolutely pointless that anything related to the role of Alexander Vukic in their dishonest affairs I answer here, rather than the subject of relations with history and the subject of respect for the National Assembly, the various codes and what we have heard earlier. The essence of the problem was probably presented unconsciously by that man just now, the essence of the problem that is related to our amendments and our presentations in the discussion in particular. Here, just a moment ago, this whole of Serbia could hear and see, it showed that, in fact, by his understanding, he had the right to debate in particular, right for him, similar to him and around him gathered on that side of the hall. The man said: "The right to submit amendments is for those who are among the so-called. The opposition and that's it and he still doesn't understand anything, he doesn't understand, and it's not clear to him simply how we dared to say one single word in the discussion in particular. It is by his understanding and judgment only his time, or theirs. But on the subject of insults, codes, and other things, it would be good if he wanted to talk to us about someone who didn't call them prostitutes, he didn't call his colleagues cattle, horses, and what that man was already doing. So don’t discuss this subject with us by people who have shown such behavior. The history they know is more than clear, but one historically interesting thing, and here I see there will be a comment on the other, whether or not you know, ladies and gentlemen, but the preceding British fascist union in the period before World War II was called, believe it or not, the Nose party Oswald Mosley. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31662	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31663	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as soon as I take my word, my fellow farmer escapes. He's literally running away. I said I already support this amendment, relating to public enterprises, but here we are respected only by the part of the opposition that, allegedly, by using our rights, we are violating their rights. Democracy is based on equality. All citizens are equal, all their representatives are equal with equal rights, but they should also be with equal obligations. I, I think, voted for more amendments from Mr. Zivkovic than he voted for his amendments. That's one thing. I also remember his intellectual service Vladimir Pavicevic, who stamped the amendments "is deleted" in thousands, thousands of copies, and we have always stood by, while they have talked about everything except their amendments. This is where they talk about coups. I agree it's a coup when someone takes more power than it belongs to them. I agree with a fellow farmer, he's just taken more power than he belongs to. We all remember the declaration of state of emergency and the law that was then passed, which Mrs Radeta will know, which was the combination between constitutional powers of war and emergency and that was applied in March 2003. We also remember what led to the law, which was the declaration of state of emergency, which, under the Constitution of the current Republic of Serbia, could only be declared on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Since Natasa Micic, as well as his smallness, had drawn on and used it, imposed an emergency on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, which was against the constitution, I agree that they then did a coup, and therefore the farmer's colleague should respond. It's a little harder for him to explain, because it's a first-class politician who barely finished first grade high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31664	You went to class together? Right? (Marian Risticevic: What? You went to high school together? (Marian Risticevic: Yes, but I've moved on to the second, third...) You went to second, third, and he stayed? And we went to the army together. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31665	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that Serbia is on a good path and overall development and policy led by our president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and our entire government, and that it is only possible to confirm that the Ministry of Education of the previous year has reconstructed almost 400 objects in the field of education system, and that this year it will be done even more and that there are ten gymnasiums in Serbia and these are all grants from a million euros, even more, which means that it really invests well and that everything that has not been done by 2012, and unfortunately, those MPs who have brought Serbia to ruin are not ashamed today to criticise the work of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the peoples who are sitting on this side. Their work has been talked about and spoken about from election to election, and I really do not understand that someone can come here and say that the SNS is not doing well and that it does not work in the citizens' interest, when exactly what has been done over the past few years and that the results speak more than any other word. I, quite frankly, would like to commend your investments and your co-operation with both local self-government and the Public Investment Office, because, as I come from Kruševac, this year, it is planned to invest about 1m euros in Kruševac, not only in the field of education, but also in the reconstruction of the Kruševec hospital, which was announced by Mr Marko Blagojevic during a recent visit when you were also in Kruševec and when the reconstructed school "Hope Popović" was presented to the public, which is indeed for every praise. So this year, we are expecting a lot of things, and that is why we have growing and greater support for citizens and I thank them publicly for this opportunity, not only for support, but also for active participation in the reconstruction of our country and in reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31666	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31667	Thank you. The proposed amendment is added to Article 15, which reads as follows: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications – Capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to fully develop the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on financial stability. “ Human resources, or their knowledge, create the value and success of the business, so they need competent and valuable staff so that the company is ahead of the competition. This is why companies are trying in all ways to hide the value of intellectual capital from competition, knowing that it is their main source of success in a market game that is ruthless. Rapid economic development requires changes in business organisations and adaptation to new market requirements, and knowledge management becomes a primate of competitiveness. Therefore, the application of NOK will allow for faster production, better product placement, or faster economic development, which creates a favourable environment for foreign investors through the affirmation of acquired classifications, i.e. knowledge. Structural reforms and improved business and investment environment have attracted a greater inflow of foreign investors. In 2017, the net inflow of foreign direct investment amounted to 2.4 billion euros. They have led to positive trends in employment and production and exports. Investment in export-oriented sectors will be the main driver of GDP growth of 3.5% in 2018 and 2019. In the last three years, the highest productivity growth has been recorded in industries with the highest inflows of foreign direct investment in the production of steel and tobacco, chemical and pharmaceutical industries, as well as in the production of rubber and plastics and manufacturing of machinery and equipment. The growth in production productivity resulting from foreign direct investment contributes to the higher position of our country and the Duing Business List, i.e. shows increased economic growth and better financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31668	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31669	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, my amendment is heading towards connecting the affirmation of acquired qualifications with the achievement of social equality. The establishment of a national qualification framework in the Republic of Serbia will create reliable and quality qualifications built according to the needs of the labour market and recognised by all employers. Therefore, this law is passed in order to overcome the problem and create a link between education and the labour market, and thus will certainly also affect the achievement of social equality. The education system in Serbia should be such as to enable an individual to become easily employable in a relatively short time, so that he can apply acquired knowledge after completing his education and thus improve his position on the labour market. In voting day, I will vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31670	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Col. Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31671	I thank the chairman. I would like to point out once again the importance of the national qualification framework, and by noting the importance of education and competence of traffic-related persons. For operations related to the construction of traffic infrastructure, the coordination of all types of traffic and the response to all the challenges that this area contains, it is absolutely necessary to select well-qualified persons, who are ready for lifelong knowledge and skills, start with drivers of vehicles, through traffic technicians, traffic engineers and persons involved in scientific research. Given that the arrival of SNS in the Republic of Serbia, in the last few years, has become a trend in the opening of factories, attracting foreign investors, starting from investing in a system where stable finances are, where public debt is reduced, where good infrastructure, where investment in industrial zones, where good and quality traffic connections are, it is important that project business operators certainly have high-quality knowledge and that they are responsible for their work, towards citizens. A good mechanism for the development of the economy will certainly be the outcome of dual education, initiated by Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic, who is being conducted by the ministry of education headed by Minister Sarcevic. The acquisition of qualifications through a system of formal, informal and dual education, and from the field of traffic, can absolutely benefit and be a prerequisite for the Republic of Serbia to be the right destination for good investment and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31672	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Milojevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31673	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 2. I propose that the draft law be added to point 15, which is an affirmation of acquired qualifications, capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the comparison of the economic sector. This amendment defines the concept of affirmation of acquired qualifications in terms of specific reference to the comparison of the private sector. This means that there is a need to coordinate market relations and demand for concrete labour. The private sector now needs young people, educated and professional, ready to work and progress. It is our obligation to recognize this trend and in the years to come we work even more to develop closer co-operation with private employers. In 2017, there was a sharp rise in the production capacity of local companies, so after the government's stimulating subsidies, Bekament opened a new plant for the production of construction styrofoam and thus hired a hundred new workers. A further expansion of production capacities is expected this year. At the opening ceremony was the then prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The Pestan company recorded a record growth in production and exports last year, and currently the company employs over 1000 workers. It is not a small number of workers, not only in this, but also in other private companies in Arangelovac, who have changed the job description and the work sectors after professional training and new skills. Also, according to national employment services in 2017, the number of unemployed in the municipality of Arangelovac has been reduced by 215 people, another evidence that the economic consolidation and support policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia is giving visible results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31674	Thank you. (Sonja Pavlovic: I answer the word. () Col. Pavlovic, you don't have... (Sonja Pavlovic: I have the right, MP groups, as authorized. Just to check out the services, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31675	Thank you. My colleague said it was important to have an affirmation of acquired qualifications, and I agree with that. So we really stand for it as an independent committee club...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31676	My colleague, I apologize, so now I've checked with the service, you can also check in the electronic parliament, my colleague Zivkovic has spent the full time he had, as a parliamentary group and as an authorised one. It's all spent. (Sonja Pavlovic: All 21 minutes? (Laughter) Absolutely everything. I'm sorry, this was my fault, but it really was. (Sonja Pavlovic: What is your problem? Is your time spent? What's your problem? Please, colleagues. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31677	The President-in-Office, the esteemed Mr. Minister with his associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, is aimed at submitting this amendment to Article 2. The bill adds item 15 – Qualifications acquired, capitalisation of acquired knowledge for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific view to the development of medical centres. For many years, the General Hospital "Dr Radivoje Simonović" in Sombor has been encamping. In the work and better training of specialists, who apply new knowledge, then introducing new technologies into work, the former DS-led authority was absolutely inert, at least as far as this health institution is concerned, and also home to health that is no longer part of the General Hospital in Sombor. The problems in our health care have been great seen by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia and has paved the way for young people to educate and end the desired specializations. Not giving specializations, the former government thus limited the quality and ability of better treatment to citizens. Until a few years ago, the average age of specialists at Somborska Hospital was about 60 years old. Three years ago, at the initiative of young doctors from the Somborska hospital's internal department, I was able to present to Minister Loncar the need for the establishment of a heart catetarisation hall at the level of our western – the Bačka region, i.e. the district. After seeing the need for a general hospital, the minister made a solution at the end of December 2015, in which he agreed to open an angel hall in Sombor, which would not only be used by cardiologists, but also by vascular surgeons and neurologists and that new technology could be introduced into the work of the Sombor hospital. This has not been realised because of the challenge of the former director who was in charge of DS and until he was removed and until the whole project was supported by the provincial government, with the competent Health Secretariat. For now, one doctor has completed his education and he has a team of six, which successfully catetharizes the heart. There's another colleague at the end of his education. We know that in a myocardial infarction, the most important thing is to react in the first two hours. Now our citizens are in the same, equal position and are no longer citizens of the second order. There are no longer long lists to wait for them to have an intervention that, unfortunately, many have not even welcomed so far. Now everything's changing. Last week, more precisely on March 13th at the Sombor hospital, the first artificial knee installation operation was performed, thanks to the enthusiasm of a young colleague who for the first time performed the procedure with his team after completing his education in Banjaca. This first operation was attended by his mentor. Thanks to the Ministry of Health, the Regional Ministry of Health, which has brought and brought such positive measures to improve the health protection of our citizens, has helped citizens to be much safer now in the ways and efficiency of treatment, are safer in their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31678	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31679	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment for pointing to the importance of capitalisation of acquired knowledge, in order to develop the Republic of Serbia, with a special focus on economic exchange. Therefore, in order for development to be sustainable, it is necessary, in addition to investing in education, which today, after the adoption of new laws, is quite certain, to invest in even regional development. In fact, the unbalanced regional development and the problems facing local self-government, we inherited from the former regime. The regional development strategy of the Republic of Serbia from 2007 to 2012 was not based on essential regionalisation, i.e. socio-economic principles. Today we are on track to overcome inherited problems. It is witnessed by current events. These days, the problem of Kursumliska Banje has been solved, dating back to 2006. The bullet bath had a state-of-the-art spa stationary for Banjska's treatment. The Jubor Rehabilitation Centre worked for 130 workers, with 10,000 guests in the spa each year who treated the healing waters with bone, rheum, sterility. It's the oldest spa in the Balkans. She was the most beautiful and modern, and she hasn't worked since 2006. Over 10 thermal springs of temperatures above 65 degrees Flow uncontrollably, while in the spa life died, with as many as a few dozen inhabitants. At one time, schools were full of students, and today the municipality pays transportation fees for three students to the school in Kursumlia. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised the problem and these days a real market value assessment of the spa has been completed, according to an accelerated procedure. After that, the government will call a tender, actually take over the spa from the current owner, the PIO Fund and call a tender for its sale. The right to participate shall be given to all interested potential customers who meet the requirements. So far, interest in buying has shown only one company – AD “Planinka” from Kurzumlia, which has been successfully operating in Prolo and Lukovska Banja for years, with the continued expansion of its accommodation capacities and the creation of new jobs. This is a big step for Kurzumlia, for Toplice, for Serbia. We'll have 150 new jobs. The bullets will return to the glow they once had, and to the citizens faith in the better tomorrow. Equal regional development is the right path towards sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31680	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31681	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, my amendment to Article 2 speaks of comparing the terms...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31682	Comrade Tomic, it's not your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31683	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31684	National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31685	I thank the chairman. I have submitted to Article 2 an amendment that speaks, in addition to these 14 terms defined by the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia 15th position, i.e. point 15, which should define in fact the full promotion of the 2030 Agenda objectives, which, of course, implies, other than sustainable economic development, and the possibility of sustainable education of all people, regardless of nationality, in one country. Since the objectives of the 2030 Agenda are, in fact, one of the global agendas that we all need to pursue, it speaks precisely about that every economy, if it wants to be economically sustainable, must be based on knowledge. What should not be forgotten is that by 2012, a question has been asked, there is also a minister, why has this law not been passed at all? This is precisely why I will answer in one sentence, which by 2012, Serbia's economy had completely died, because it was based on the Republic of Serbia's budget, because the tycoons were making budgets and governments that ruled until 2012, because the SNS, when it took responsibility in 2012, found a total collapse, when we talk about public finances, from the fact that we had loans only for interest rates over a billion and per euro per year, to the fact that 750m euros had annual expenditures on companies in so-called ". restructuring, i.e. 558 enterprises where privatisation was not completed, where we had different debts by the economy, but also the debt of the state to social categories, where we found 1.7 million pensioners who were also in a particular section owed by the state. But what is certain is that the International Labour Organisation defined that the number of employees in Serbia in 2003 was 2.3 million Serbian citizens, and in 2012, with the end of 2011, 1.7 million, suggesting that 500,000 Serbian citizens lost their jobs. The fact that we have found it also shows the justification of the Government of the Republic of Serbia led by Mr. Vukic that economic reforms and fiscal consolidation were imperative to implement, to survive both as a people and as a state. And with that survival, conditions have been created that we can even talk today about the development of education, as one of the most important instruments of the state with which we want to design our economy. That's what gives us the opportunity to move forward in the future. For the first time, we have this framework now, when we talk about qualifications. So we know what the Republic of Serbia has to do with the qualifications of public sector employees. What I'm trying to say is that the 2030 Agenda, especially S-4, is talking about education and inclusive education and the possibility that all Serbian citizens in a unique way can finish schools. But what's defined by the 2030 Agenda, and I think by our strategy, that's to introduce necessarily, in addition to primary education, and secondary education. What's important is to say that you really bravely entered the task of talking about a mandatory subject when it comes to information. But what needs to be in the future is that entrepreneurship is also one of the subjects that students will already choose in primary and secondary schools to acquire certain knowledge and skills, that when they finish primary and secondary education, they already know which way to go. It's one of the imperatives we need to lead in the future. What is important is that our education is based on the needs of the labour markets. I think that you are very successful and that what we want to achieve in higher education, which is to produce a really large number of IT experts, but also experts who are top three professions in the EU, which is most wanted, are: the energy manager and that is the environmental manager, somewhere and colleges recognize as one of the programs that should be run in certain professions, both technical, so-called, and social, because today the technology is very fast progressing and social sciences can really be difficult to monitor this fast flow of technology in all fields of science. But because of that, we as a system, as an education system in the state of Serbia, should go to meet such big and fast changes. That's why I think that even the literature we're talking about, we've had a chance to hear about what changes you've introduced into the Bookbooks Act, should in some ways not complicate the life of students. My request is that, simply, the textbooks that are written, I know that this is done by the Institute for the Advancement of Education and Education, should indeed be written and done in a highly acceptable way by our students. It is an application for both Members of Parliament and professors, and all people who, after all, are parents to help students in a certain way take their education completely on their own, so that parents are no longer the ones who will bear a great deal of and burden of their education in order to really deal with new technologies as much as possible, but to be their own and independent effects in all of this. Today, students in large cities have great competition, while in some other cities, which may not go at that speed in the development of certain textbooks, the means to work, do not go at that speed, and then we come into the situation that when a university enrolment comes, they have one unfair competition. That is why we are asking that, by respecting the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, all of these problems that we are not only facing as Serbia, but also the country in the region, and even the most developed countries in the EU, in a completely acceptable way, overcome together. Thank you for what you have done so far when it comes to many legislative proposals, but here in the voting day I will vote for my amendment, as always, when it comes to the 2030 Agenda, but we should really remember that we do each other from our point of view on the development of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31686	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31687	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment, amendment in Article 2. The bill is added to point 15, which is an affirmation of acquired qualifications, capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to fully develop the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. With the support of the OSCE mission in the Republic of Serbia, the State Major Prosecutors, along with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, continue to strengthen the capacity of the Information and Support Services for the damaged and witnesses in public prosecutors. The state's major prosecutors participated in the production of a new brochure on information and support services containing basic information, contact details of all departments in public prosecutors, as well as the development of commercial connections for public prosecutors in communication with witnesses and damaged and service posters. Also, along with the OSCE mission, training has been carried out in the field of information and support for the damaged and witnesses, both for persons performing services and for public prosecutorial functions holders in Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Belgrade. In Belgrade, with the support of the OSCE mission in the Republic of Serbia, a seminar was held for representatives of all judicial and public prosecutorial services to support damaged and witnesses of crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31688	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31689	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the amendment I have submitted is a continuation of the first amendment to the 1st member, and also directs the National Qualifications Framework to a review dedicated to regional development, i.e. regional integration. The importance of regional development and regional integration has been discussed with aspects of other laws, but a special reference to this qualification law, which will now allow a balanced regional development of all regions, and this is one strategy that the government has been propagating since the start of taking responsibility for the Republic of Serbia. So, since 2012, a balanced development of all regions. I come right from the Western Serbia region where we felt better and where we are in change in education, in economy, above all, towards infrastructure projects, which are announced... If we have in mind that I come from the town of Šapca, where we have a high school of agriculture which is extremely important and which in its education applied some kind of dual education, and on the other hand we have a chemical school that continued with the education of people who are not so needed at this time, and this framework of qualifications directs education in the direction of education of people who need economics, who are following the development of the economy. We have an example of Capca, "Jasaki" which is open, where 1,000 workers are employed. We're talking about the auto industry. The Ministry of Education will create conditions through education to meet the needs of these investors right now. What is significant will certainly be shown in the coming years, each region in its development of economy and markets will monitor and develop education, i.e. the necessary staff, and apart from the integration itself, related only to qualifications in national frameworks, when it comes to educational qualifications, it is certainly necessary to connect the region and infrastructure integration. I'm going to take an example of the Whisper again, because I'm coming from Capca. The President of the Republic has just announced the construction of the highway from Novi Sad via Ruma to Šapac, from Šapac to Loznica, and from Loznica to other countries. What is significant is that the highway Novi Sad – Ruma – Shabac has been in promise since the time of Josip Broz Tito, so no one has promised to this government and this president, and this very government and this president will fulfill this promise and will finally be the path of Novi Sad – Ruma – Sabac and will continue to connect all regions without talking about those highways that have already been built in the previous five, six years. I'm going back to this law. The response to the even development of all regions will be the response of the Ministry of Education, which will allow those people in need of the market, who need the economies needed in the region to be educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31690	Thank you. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31691	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to talk to you today about a problem that we talk about very often, which is the departure of young people abroad. How do you channel that problem? How do these people who go back to Serbia and make their contribution to further development, above all, to our country's economy? I think this NOX law will help solve this problem. The problem is, Mr. Minister, of a technical nature and it's about the nostrification of their diplomas, their beliefs, their written acts that speak of their expertise. I responsibly claim that all these young people who leave, at one point, most of them want to come back, but ask that their return be as soft as possible, as easy as possible, and that they are rewarded for what they have learned, what they have acquired abroad. I point out that it is not a problem that they are leaving, but it is a problem that they are not coming back, and I think there is a desire for them to come back and we have to do it, and we use this law to make this return as painless as possible, to welcome them here, to reward them for all that they will give to the development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. I see, and I know that in the Ministry of Education, one man worked on a nostrification, that this job was a pain in the ass, that a lot of people were talking to me about it personally, etc. That man did this job very well and knew it very well, because I know him personally. But, look, one man can't do that. Now I see that you at the Qualifications Agency predicted that it was done by 10 people. Well done, Minister. So 10 people will do it. So it should be, Malten, the welcome ceremony of those people who want to come and that their knowledge, which they have acquired abroad, represents here in the country of Serbia. They don't have to come back to live here all the time. They can also be guests. They can be there for a while. Now, let me give an example, to point out my city of Valjevo. So right now in the country of Serbia, my student, Pedja Maric, who is in Canada, who has acquired a family there, he is currently in the country of Serbia, he is the creator of the E-Government in the country of Canada, and he has done it successfully. He's in charge of that team. He is also prepared with me to talk to Michael Jovanovic, who works on E administration in our country, to provide his knowledge, make it available and make everything we have done much better. I appeal to it, Minister, to make this nostrification process not to be tormented, not to be obliged, to be solemn, and to have people who want to come together with people, because there are many people who have not left, who can contribute to the development of the country of Serbia. All that is good in the country of Serbia needs to be gathered. And the biggest problem, Minister, is that these people should be rewarded. This quality is derived from the quantity, it is very difficult in education. There are funds, but there are no sublegal acts, you understand. Now you can reward the one who pulls the most 30%, I'm right, well, there are other ways, but we have to get those who draw and reward, because only they can contribute to the improvement of all of us. So when we get them together first, and then we reward them, when we get those two together, we're sure to move even faster and live even better. And in that light, this Law of NOX needs to be used. I can tell, since I've been in education for a long time, I've spent 39 years here and you've been doing every law that you come here to the Assembly throwing problems that have accumulated for years. I have no reason, I'm retired, to court you, but you prove, with your team, that you know exactly and locate problems that we can't reverse and we couldn't solve for twenty years. I have one question, Minister, to answer me, so that external evaluation, that's a very good thing, be careful. Every measurement and every evaluation is good, because it serves to separate those who work from those who don't work, to make a ranking list, etc. Why isn't there a higher score than a four? Can anyone get an "A" right now? Either you didn't predict that scale from one to five, or you just predicted from one to four. And if there's a possibility of being an "A," then it should be, and you should come see an elementary school in the Giants. To see what a modern village school looks like where all the most modern funds are used. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31692	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31693	Your Honor, you probably know that this tool lasts about four and a half years. I found him. It's one combination of some Dutch model. I've got the same explanation. It was illogical for me too – why is there no 5? Can't anyone deserve that? By the time the teacher makes his spite, so God knows about five, Tesla for four, etc. That's how I realized it. However, since I said here last week that there was a new change and addition of that tool. He's solid. I'm not gonna say it wasn't, but there's a lot to be asked to build. You've valued a school that didn't have the means to complete and equipment with a lower grade, which is incorrect. It's not her fault she didn't get the money. Then you value some other things that can't be valued that way. You take a sample of your parents per diary at random, fifth three and 16, and I don't know, eighth two, fourth or any other. That might be a bad pattern. We therefore insist on the overall capacity of parents in the survey and a number of other things, and on the fifth. So when we finish this cycle this year, we've strengthened our teams. 300 more people are trained, counselors of the best, practically 200, with what the Bureau has, to be now an army of good people. You have a positive answer for that. When it comes to nostration, we really had a big problem a year and a half ago. Over I don't know how many thousands, at one point it was incomprehensible, young people who even wanted to go back to the country, finished excellent colleges, sides, we didn't have enough people to do that to them or even resects to admit it. I realized that right away and we somehow managed to get some contracts and occasional and temporary jobs to find a few people and pick it up a little bit and somehow we got there. It's really on the muscles today. So that Annie Haring Center and what we have as people should get into this professional team and that happens the way you said. For the sake of Serbian citizens, certain ways of returning exist. They're not that massive, but let's say from the IT area and the games industry, many Seven Bridges companies, Nordus, many others are returnees. Our people who graduated from electrical engineering, made a good career out there, saw that they could do it here and work among their own and slowly return. At the Institute "Biosens" in Novi Sad, where we have almost been propagating and the digital farm will work over 120 foreign researchers in the area of IT in agriculture. There are dozens in the Institute of Physics, etc. They're not unique examples. There's more of it. In some ways, it will happen faster, in some slower ways. We launched the project – study in Serbia. (President: Bring the end of the minister. The reason is, today I received one of the ambassadors of African countries where there are six state schools and 15 private ones. The best experts are those who once studied in Belgrade. Everyone's aware of that. We've got the catalog we're working on now. We will be present, we were nowhere to be found, to return the good fame of excellent studies in Serbia, to improve the quality of what we need, and it is now a job to design it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31694	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? She's a colleague of Vlahovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31695	Thank you, Your Honor. According to the amendment I submitted to Article 2. A bill of law, whose argument I will begin with a single quote. "High quality education has an impact on our youth only when everyone has the same opportunity to use it. This starts with early childhood education. Early education has been shown to have a significant impact on positive outcomes in behaviour, better progress and achievement in education. This also improves the prospects for detecting potential problems, early enough to provide adequate care and guarantees our children a happy childhood and a bright future. “ – Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, August 2016. Dear Minister Sarcevic, I come from Belgrade's largest municipality. I am a representative of the citizens and citizens of New Belgrade. I want to take this opportunity to, on behalf of all Novobeo citizens, on behalf of all students present and future thank you, primarily you, your Ministry and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia because you have separated for the reconstruction of Branko Radcevic Elementary School, which is located in Block 45, 18 million dinars. First you will reconstruct the facade, carpentry, air conditioning and computers. This school was built in 1975 and is one of the seven schools that has a pool. In that pool, many, many children learned to swim. Among them are my sons, and I thank you in the name of all the students because they will have better and happier and better education. Because the kind of childhood we have, that's the kind of people we become. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31696	Thank you. Now I'm setting a break of one hour and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31697	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31698	Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, my amendment to the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia insists on Article 2. The bill adds point 15) which reads: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications – Capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to fully develop the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving the work of local self-government". The purpose of the submission of this amendment is to make it clear at point 15) that the affirmation of acquired qualifications is, in fact, capitalisation of acquired knowledge created through different levels and basics of the education system. As the knowledge of capital is, it needs to be directed towards Serbia's overall development goal and evenly deployed by local self-government. The improved work of local self-government is not an easy task at all, especially from the level at which it was left by the former regime, whose only goal for 12 years, in Vojvodina 16, was to make its leaders, responsible members, prominent individuals and close associates become rich people, with huge assets and full bank accounts. They did not care that the facilities of educational institutions were abandoned and that they did not satisfy the basic minimum of technical and hygiene conditions. Today, only two years after the SNS assumed responsibility in the municipality of Novi Knezevac, all educational institutions, kindergartens, primary and secondary schools have been arranged and brought into a state-of-the-art position in the municipality of Novi Knezevac, and the "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" elementary school in the Serbian Krstur is one of the most organized in Vojvodina. Thanks to Alexander Vukic, who designed and launched the work of the Government Public Investment Office, not small funds amounting to more than 120 million dinars were provided for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the elementary school facility in Novi Knezevic and Banatski Arangelovac according to the standards and standards prescribed for school facilities. By handling the fact that the most profitable investments are investment in knowledge, we from the SNS stick to it, so that as a society and as a state, we can achieve a sustainable but better future for everyone, above all for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31699	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31700	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, in order for the state of Serbia to continue to develop successfully in all segments of its operation, primarily successful fiscal consolidation, then bringing foreign investors, the unsustainable development of infrastructure, as well as the reputation that the state of Serbia enjoys in the world, never stronger and never larger, we must also consider the process of planning and developing human potential. Strong technological and economic changes create conditions for change in all segments of society. A work environment thus set up sets new requirements before education. As I said, in times of strong technological and economic change, we cannot allow employers who employ labour to have no data on what individuals know to do when they leave the world of education. The establishment of the law will define what an individual can do, which is of particular importance to foreign investors who largely come to Serbia, who may not have been fully familiar with the country's education system where they operate. The establishment of the National Qualifications Framework will improve the career development of individuals, so that all future students and students will have insight into what they will be able to do at the end of education, which is how and in which jobs they will be able to hire or continue schooling. In the end, I would only say to the respected minister that I owe, from the town of Šapca from which I come, great thanks for the renovation of the medical school "Dr Andra Jovanovic" worth 43 million, as well as the Sabak High School, which marked the jubilee – 180 years of existence, which has received 30 million from the Office for Public Investments of the Ministry and the State of Serbia for the reconstruction of the hall. But there's another request, of course, because of the importance the high school will get in the next period, you know what it's about, we expect help in expanding the capacity of the Shabba High School, i.e. teaching space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31701	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The People's MP Maja Macužic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31702	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose this amendment to be in Article 2. The bill adds point 15) which reads: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications – Capitalisation of acquired knowledge with a view to the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions". I believe that this proposal further defines the basic concepts and their meaning. Although the municipality of Ćuprije pointed out on several occasions that the removal of funds from the municipality's account for the settlement of the inherited debts of the House of Health in Ćupria was unlawfully, by forced payment from the court executives of the municipality's accounts was blocked by more than 70 million dinars in one current year 2017. When the SNS took responsibility more than four years ago in Turkey, none of us had any idea what chaos would be like in this health care facility. A debt of more than one million euros, over 300 employees, although normative was 130. So 170 unnecessarily and 130 contracted workers. So that one of the extra employees could open another home of health. Untrusted health books for uncontracted healthcare professionals since 2012, and then untrusted health books and contracted healthcare professionals since 2014, more attempts to seizing sanitary vehicles new and obtained for the needs of emergency and urgent medical assistance services. At the request of the Municipality of Cupri in December 2017, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and afterwards the National Assembly gave an authentic interpretation of Article 48. The law of execution, after which the municipality of Cupria sought its rights through the Constitutional Court. If the government of the Republic of Serbia had not given an authentic interpretation of the law on enforcement and that the implementation of those solutions continued, the budget of the municipality of Cupri would certainly have been in the blockade. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia annulled the Supreme Court's decision and returned to its original decision, as the decision to execute is illegal. In this decision, the Constitutional Court instructed health workers to exercise their rights in another way, not to charge their claims through the municipal budget. The Tupria municipality will continue to make every effort to stabilise the situation in the Tuprian health home. Out of the inherited 170 contracted workers of the Cupria health home, part of the workers moved to work at the General Hospital of Cupria, part of the non-medical workers went through the process of rationalisation and out of the total number of uncontracted workers there were 27 unnecessarily agreed medical workers left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31703	Thank you, Dr. Pavlovic. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Milimir Vujadinović, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31704	Thank you, Chairman. The intensity of this amendment is certainly to point to the need to fight crime in all segments of society, and thus to be incorporated into this law. She had the chance to Serbia today, yesterday to hear the disastrous consequences of a phenomenon that could be dangerous to society, and it is crime and corruption, especially if it becomes a way of functioning the system and if the state becomes a slave to such a phenomenon. Namely, there are many examples that we have seen in the last two days here in the debate, and when it comes to Zivkovic's vineyard, and when it comes to subsidies for this vineyard and when it comes to the Sutanovec building on Vračar and when it comes to the millions of Gilas, etc., and when it comes to the failure of the contract in the town of Nis, which my colleague Martinović spoke of. However, the whole agony of the northern Serbian province was experiencing in a somewhat more difficult way, just because the whole thing lasted much longer than in the rest of the Serbian state, up to a year and a half, until 2016. However, the principles of action and mode of work were the same or very similar, and it is particularly important and remarkable are the principles on which the funds established in the AP Vojvodina and the Fund for Subsidying of New Technologies worked and operated. How did all this work? In this period of 16 years, some 35m euros went through the fund, where 112 companies were to be funded for which the plants with so-called "opened" were to be opened. New technologies. In short, money would be allocated to a company that would buy some old machines, hire or not hire a certain number of workers, and immediately after paying the money, the company went bankrupt, the workers, the question is whether they would be employed or not, they would normally not, but if they would, then. They were fired, and money would never be returned to the Fund or might be returned through some bizarre transactions, least said, which were sometimes "believed or not" for the section. Clearly, that money, the 35 million we're talking about eventually ended up being prey between the owners of these companies and those who allocated money, and, you know, I already told you who ran the province by 2016. The event was particularly expressed in 2011, in the pre-election year and 2015, again in the pre-election year. In order for these and such things not to happen to us, I have found it appropriate to include this amendment in this legislative proposal, which would be some sort of reminder that we cannot allow such things to happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31705	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31706	Knowledge acquired, ladies and gentlemen, which is also referred to by the proposed amendment, is one of the most important basis for development. If that were the case, we have extraordinary confirmations at different levels, at national level, through regional ones, all the way to the world's total, and we've already given good examples during this debate. When it comes to further improvement of exports, for example in the sector such as the IT sector, and we have the example yesterday, 900m euros in exports in this sector are a remarkable success for 2017. So we continued to grow in this direction, to keep growing by more than 20%, and when we look at sectors right now, besides ICT services, we have another or two sectors that can rise with such extraordinary high success. So, the sector regarding electric machines and road vehicles. He's, like, more successful than the ICT sector. And by the way, we've managed to outdo all the other areas, and that's a good example of how it can be done and how it should be done in each area individually. When we talk about a regional plan, thanks to a good framework and great effort, we have more traffic today when it comes to relations in the region, commercially above all, and when it comes to circulation such as Croatia, BiH, in 2017 14.2% and 13.1%, respectively. In traffic in total, when you look at the level of investment in the regional plan, Croatia's press is noticed these days, their portal, the G-portal, says that around seven billion euros ended in Serbia in that sense we are absolute regional champions. As good and important as it is to invest in knowledge, it is both good and important to keep an eye on and avoid escalating ignorance. How much damage there is, if the other is not taken care of, it is enough for someone to look at just any statement by the party Vuk Jeremic, the one who has been shopping and to see how dangerous it can be these very days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31707	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Veroljub Matic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31708	I have submitted the amendment and it has an impact on economic development, and its focus is on local development. In order to achieve this, it is not possible without the quality of education, without the quality of workers, engineers, lawyers and all people who complete a certain level of school in the education system. Surely that level of education must be high if we want a strong and good country. As far as my community is concerned, I'd start with preschools, kindergartens, which are great and that got great reviews from audits, inspections, and I think it's one of the best in the country, and there's kids socializing, getting ready for primary school, so that the level of that facility, from cleaning woman, cook, nurse, teacher to quality management, is all good work, and it's one great institution. Further, through basic education where certain knowledge is acquired and to secondary education where secondary education gives the largest number of workers who are practically working primarily in our economy. -+ In my municipality, high school does well and it is best seen from the passing of students in higher schools and universities. It's just that these kids have a good pass, and that means that the teacher in high school, he's got them well prepared, he's got them equipped, they've accepted it, and they've had a good choice to continue their higher level of education. Those who stopped in middle or three years of education simply started working in that economy, and I think that's where we get very good results. High schools, especially in smaller municipalities, are more than an educational institution, because where youth or youth levels work, the environments feel much better. They're different than when they don't have one high school, so just one observation, if it comes and if there ever comes a certain rationalisation of secondary schools at Serbia's level, it should also be considered, taking into account everything that's ahead of us. As for Kocelev himself, we have a very good economy. An economy that works almost no economic operator has a problem. What's kind of good, which maybe isn't, which is that we have missing personnel in certain areas, like wood industry and like pyrotechnics. In Koceljeva, a pyrotechnics factory was created which, in practice, may be the only one in Europe, at that level, which is secure, which was granted permission from the state that started production, yet it has not caught fire, which is 100% exportable. I don't think there's any pyrotechnics in the nomenclature for a certain level of education, although it's never been with us before, but let's just say, I think that high school with a pyrotechnics factory could organize that kind of teaching. There's something else I'd like to say that's very important. I think we've prepared a lot of good conditions for the development of the economy, but lately investors, whether it's domestic or foreign, whether it's mixed capital, simply first ask you if you have a workforce and a qualified workforce. That's a first, and I think that's pretty good. It is a serious reminder that we are seriously approaching the quality of education of future personnel. That's what I'd do with this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31709	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31710	Dear Mr. Matic, you mentioned several very important things. One of them is certainly a preschool facility in Koceljeva, which belongs to the top Serbia, and then when we criticise, which-what has to be criticised, thank God, because there is still so much to be fixed and made better, then it is time to praise some institutions, as you have now done, as I have just praised certain agricultural schools and it is their chance of being mentioned in this House, because they deserve, without further ado. Last year we started a new model of how to enroll in high school, which is precisely to ask local self-government, the local economy with the labour market, to connect it and to project exactly what is important and offer to children. In the new system law on education and the network involved, we have foreseen many different models and more rational and quality, but given one agenda to go to high school. We also need to address the issue of transport and arrival of children from remote rural areas and to fully cover them. It's already a civilization issue. It's no longer a matter of some policy, so there's no saying that any school will in this way be considered superfluous, but it will only be organised differently by vertical and horizontal means through some joint management and through some other kind, but you've just said everything yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31711	Thank you, Minister. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31712	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted this amendment with the desire to point to the importance of economic resources and since human potential has a very important role in the development of each country, and our citizens are witnesses just in the event of the arrival of the SNS that the state today seems to be led by people in positions of the SNS and parties of coalition partners. Increasing the education of working people, but in line with the needs of the economy, it's something that will uncontest this law. I wanted to further define the basic concepts and meanings of this amendment. After a decade, Mr. Minister, you said, I suppose, out of desire not to offend the people of the opposition who were in power at that moment -- it's been cramping, and I'd just like to add -- and it would burn up, Mr. Minister, if it were left to depend on such people. Maybe they'd have settled at some point to roll up their sleeves, just so they could get their hands out of the citizens' pockets. Just the basic concepts are what the government didn't know by 2012. Yesterday, I noted that about 800,000 jobs disappeared thanks to those in power until 2012, that in privatisation, the entire Serbian economy was sold for about $2.8 billion, and imagine, there is only one in that period, for example. Romanian bank sold for $3.8 billion. So the entire Serbian economy was sold to a Romanian bank by 2012 from those who ruled the country. The basic term is the workforce that needs to be employed, not like they did, forced out on the street. The basic concept was to educate the staff for the necessary occupations. The basic concept is also the economic infrastructure on which they did nothing. That I don't have so many concepts right now, and they don't know anything about it. For future generations, I have suggested that this be added, because this should be added if someone asked a question tomorrow, so that it could be explained to them that by 2012 those whom Serbia was not important, who were disdainful of both work and occupation, and somehow most of all by the workers themselves, and that professional affirmation was indeed a mental noun in that period. This should be added, unfortunately, and because of those individuals who today do so from opposition and disdain both work and occupation, calling workers rarely some kind of slaves, calling workers in one of the strongest companies that is co-operant in the automotive industry, which is one of the many that we have managed to bring thanks to Mr. Alexander Vukic and the enormous energy of all the people who make up this power today. Someone here dares to call you cable braiders. The next day, you may be the same professional drivers, driven by that, for which there is an extremely huge demand precisely because the economy is being run, whose salary exceeds a month and a hundred thousand dinars, may be, instead of saying professional drivers, to use that it's just steering cars, let's say doctors don't treat people, that they're simply prescription writers, thus reducing every honest interest and every honest worker. In order to prevent such things and give them the opportunity to learn that each work is valued, that was the reason for submitting amendments and defining the basic concept, to repeat, precisely because of those who have no idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31713	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31714	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens, on the proposal for NOK law, I submit an amendment to Article 2 in the sense of adding item 15, which reads: "Affirmation of acquired classifications – Capitalisation of acquired knowledge to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rule of law. “ The rule of law sector has a decisive importance for citizens. Not only is the rule of law a key prerequisite for peace, security and prosperity, but the state's stronger and social and economic capacity and has great power to transform society. Since education is a key prerequisite for the development of the state, capitalisation of acquired knowledge contributes to the comparison of the development of the Republic of Serbia compared to other EU countries. With Mr. Alexander Vukic's arrival as Prime Minister and then as well as the state, the Republic of Serbia is rapidly approaching the stage of development of Europe's most developed states, in addition to the fact that the legislation of the Republic of Serbia can be compared with the legislative systems of countries that have been EU members for many years. The adoption of the amendments would help to facilitate the recognition and recognition of domestic qualifications in European countries. The establishment of the National Qualifications Framework will significantly improve the career development of individuals, leading in the end to capitalisation of acquired knowledge. In this way, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia as a rule of law will be affirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31715	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31716	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The National Qualifications Framework Act in the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of further clarifying the concepts used in this law. If we are to discuss the recovery of the Serbian economy, we must be aware that in the coming period we must also monitor labour market requirements, but also take steps with technological achievements and what the achievements are in practice. What the Law on Dual Education has passed is exactly the framework for education of people who will soon be able to put their knowledge into function of the economy and all laws that are actually reformal, in the system of education, allow complete individuals to come out of the system, who will be able to follow the demands of the economy and respond to the challenges and problems that businesses carry with them. For a long time, the "Second" factory in Tristenik and "The First Five-year-old" has been providing practical education to students of the final years, training them, training them to respond in practice to the requirements of jobs and to be able to carry out these jobs – a great way to motivate students and scholarships offered by "Second" students of certain professions and profiles who are willing to perfect themselves in these areas, in order to provide themselves with staff for the coming years and this is, of course, something that gives results in practice. If we are talking about a balanced investment in the Republic of Serbia, I really need to rely on what my colleagues were saying, which is investing in the very facilities of educational institutions. We are indeed witnessing that there are almost no municipalities in which there were no such investments, through the Public Investment Management Office. At this point, only in Triestenik, the work of 70 million dinars is performed on three schools. This is truly remarkable, given that by the end of the year two more schools will be performed and this is something we have only in the past few years. So far, this has not been the case, but the objects have collapsed and collapsed. The current investment measured by millions of sums is an indicator of the willingness of the government of the Republic of Serbia to invest in education and to provide conditions for our young people to be quality schooled. With all this in mind, the legal framework, responding to the needs of the labour market and preparing the institutions themselves in the context of this law, will really enable as many people as possible to work, to start our economy and to develop each of our districts and every region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31717	Thank you, colleague Turk. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31718	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the provision of Article 2 of the proposed law lays down the precise meaning of certain terms used in the proposed law. The proposed amendment envisions adding point 15, which provides for another concept, which is an affirmation of acquired qualifications, whose meaning is that it represents capitalisation of acquired knowledge, with a view to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rights of displaced persons. In that sense, I would like to point out that until now the labour market has characterized an unregulated qualification system, which has also made it difficult for labour mobility, since employers have not available data on what individuals have been trained to work for after completing education. By establishing the National Qualifications Framework, each title will receive its own code, which will be consistent with European qualifications, and employers will not have a dilemma as to what someone knows they are doing when they employ it. This will benefit all – employers, individuals, state authorities, and thus society as a whole, and it is of particular importance that foreign investors have full insight into the labour market, especially those who are not fully familiar with the education system where they operate. Taking into account the fact that displaced persons are one of the most endangered categories of social groups with specific problems, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking active measures and creating conditions for individuals and families who have decided to live in the Republic of Serbia, to solve their basic life problems equally with all other citizens and to successfully integrate into the local community. Finally, I express my gratitude to the minister for providing huge assistance in the field of education to Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, as one of the remaining pillars of the survival of the Serb people in those areas. The minister used every opportunity, and he did so during yesterday's debate, to apostrophe that any reform of education would cover the territory of the southern Serbian province, that it was a moral, legal and even international obligation, with the retention of a different relationship with enclave schools, where standards cannot be respected as in central Serbia, respecting the current consolidation of opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija. This kind of action only confirms the essential fact that education institutions in Kosovo and Metohija will remain institutionally related to the Republic of Serbia, which will allow for the remaining of our people and our country in those areas in the final instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31719	Thank you. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31720	Dear Chairman, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we held a debate on the National Qualifications Framework Bill in the previous days, so today I propose that item 15 is added in Article 2, which is – an affirmation of acquired qualifications, i.e. capitalisation of acquired knowledge. The very word: “affirmation” in translation from Latin means – claim, confirmation, achieving some success in work, science, ascension above average. As you know, at the end of last year, we passed the Dual Education Act. In a discussion about the law, our opposition colleagues insisted that we are creating slaves for some foreign investors, which is not true. With this bill, we affirm every employee who wants to be educated and acquires new knowledge and skills. Affirmations can be aimed at constantly improving personal, civil and social standards. Minister Sarcevic recently said the state is currently implementing affirmative measures when it comes to higher education, but also the overall system of education. In the past, knowledge has had a negligible impact on economic growth. Economic growth and development factors include human capital. This involves investing in education and increasing new production capacity. Education, skills and knowledge are key components of individual productivity, both in economy and in general. Although Minister Vujovic announced economic growth this year in the range of between three and three and a half percent, we had the opportunity to hear from President Vučić that the growth of gross social product is above the envisioned, as much as 3.9 in this first quarter. Serbia must catch a link with the most developed countries, so it is necessary, with reform laws, that our economy progresses with huge steps. By adapting the system of qualifications, i.e. the overall education system, the needs of the economy, we will enable the economy of the necessary knowledge and skills, which are necessary to ensure that economic growth is at the desired level. I call on my colleagues to therefore support my amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31721	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's my colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31722	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in existing legislation, the process of developing and establishing a national qualification framework is not governed by uniform regulations, but by the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and the Law on Higher Education. The National Qualifications Framework provides for three ways, i.e. three opportunities to obtain qualifications through a formal and informal education system, but also through a system of recognition of work experience and life experience. This bill sets out the legal, institutional and financial framework for the establishment of a system of the national qualification framework. Article 2 defines the basic concepts and their meaning. The National Qualifications Framework is not only a description of qualifications, but also the possibility of advancement. In this context, this amendment concerns the affirmation of acquired qualifications, i.e. capitalisation of acquired knowledge, and in order to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants children to be properly formed from the moment they enter the education system. This, above all, means to cultivate true values in children and young people, and is an accent at all levels of education from pre-school to higher education, as well as adult education, which means obtaining certain qualifications. It encourages the acquisition of functional and applied knowledge. That is why it is good that we are adopting a new National Qualifications Framework, because it establishes a single and fully integrated qualification system in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31723	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31724	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, in which we generally insist on macroeconomic stability. When we talk about macroeconomic stability, we are actually talking about two types of activities that are crucial to macroeconomic stability that is what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing by leading its fiscal policy and we can realize that after a long time, the fiscal policy of the Republic of Serbia is sustainable, that we are a society that we can finance all of our projects and the other part run by the National Bank, which concerns monetary policy. The parameters that speak of the performance of macroeconomic policy are defined by a domestic gross product, which, according to a colleague, is at 3.9, at an inflation rate which is more or less at EU level and at a low unemployment rate, which is said in economic theory - low voluntary unemployment. The education and education system is crucial for the economic growth and development of a single nation. When we talk about education, actually, when we connect it to the economy, we talk about the labour market. The labour market is too fine a category and implies a wide range of stakeholders. Of course there are entrepreneurs, the private sector, that the entire economy is on one side, that on the other hand the workforce is as a participant in the process of production and that there is a regulatory body of the Ministry of Finance. What the labour market will look like, crucially in the field of qualifications, depends on the work and results of the finance ministry. It is indisputable, as my colleagues pointed out, that the labour market is changing, that we have growing and more serious labour problems that are due to a low level, above all, poor parameters in the area of new people emerging on the labour market. This all creates a problem in the management of business organisations that appear on that market, but certainly the future ahead of us is that we remove these problems, and the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the entire government, and the key Ministry of Education should work on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31725	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Nenad Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31726	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, I am on the basis of Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the national framework for Serbia's qualifications. In Article 2. The bill adds point 15, which reads: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications, capitalisation of acquired knowledge with a view to overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the stability of the dinar course". A stable course of dinars stems from political and financial stability. This creates conditions for investors to come to Serbia, and all of this creates a chance for new jobs, a chance for people who have finished school to have the opportunity to get a job. What I want to highlight in my presentation, which is that there is a department of the Faculty of Economics from Subotica in Bujanovac, and about 80 students are enrolled every year. I think it's of great importance that this department exists for a number of reasons. First of all, those who want to study can study in their hometown or in the immediate vicinity. That students from Presevo and Bujanovac have an additional motive to stay and work in their hometown after graduation, to apply the acquired knowledge to the development of these underdeveloped municipalities, thereby contributing to the wider community. The existence of the Faculty of Economics from the Faculty of Economics in Bujanovac is a good example for economic development. The Faculty, in addition to having a primary commitment to schooling students, also helps many businesses in terms of providing guidelines and advice on business plans, market research and everything else necessary for business operators. I know Minister Sarcevic provides exceptional support for the economic college to remain and remain in these areas and I thank you, Mr. Minister, for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31727	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The word is Mr Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31728	Dear Chairman, in favour of the necessity of adopting this legislative solution, I have submitted an amendment where in Article 2. The bill adds point 15, which reads: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications, capitalisation of acquired knowledge for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to improving the conditions of the military and police". The introduction of newspapers into the work process implies that staff have new skills, which must be included in human and educational development plans. Therefore, planning development and personnel cannot be done only qualitatively, but also quantitatively, and this includes education structure, ability, skills and experience. The improvement of Serbia's military standards and the strengthening of operational capabilities and equipment of arms and military equipment, the reception of professional soldiers, international military co-operation, participation in multinational operations, assistance to the population and financial discipline are key results and priorities of the defence ministry. Given the importance of human resources for defence, regardless of limited financial resources and staff outflows, the defence system seeks to preserve and strengthen human resources. It invests in continuous efforts to improve the standard of living of members of the Army and develops a system of education and training of staff and objectively value the results of work and career development accordingly. Interests young people make when it comes to employment in the military schools and training in the military schools suggest that citizens trust in the defence system. The promotion and education and qualification structures of the staff are one of the priorities in human resources management in the defence system. Professional training of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army are realised through career training of officers, specialist training of health workers in the health profession and other courses. A selection of personnel at the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army and a reference to education and training has been realized. Military and educational capacities are also available to foreign citizens, and a total of 48 members of foreign armed forces are currently located at different levels of education and training. The country is also educated by 13 members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. In 2017, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army and persons retired on the basis of work at the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian military resolved housing issues, a total of 182 members. In addition to six MiG-29 aircraft, which are provided for Serbia's Army, state-of-the-art weapons and military equipment, there are 1500 soldiers and forces of the Serbian Army for emergency response, and the army is equipped with new firearms, laser optical targeting systems, ballistic equipment, parachutes, missiles and ammunition of all calibers. In addition, 7,030 sets of field uniforms were obtained. With Jumko, another 20,000 sets of M-10 uniforms were concluded, as well as an additional 2,000 pieces of breezes, blouses, pants, and 2,000 pairs of boots were delivered. An additional purchase of 8,000 pairs of boots is also agreed. The contract for the purchase of 27,000 pairs of field M-16 boots was concluded and we can also speak, contracts were signed in 2017 worth about $475m, and the overall realisation of export contracts for the companies Jugoimport amounted to about $390m and that direct investments by the state in factories are 49.9m euros in Serbia's defence industry. A continuous open public competition for the admission of professional soldiers to Serbia's Army was established and was accepted in the previous period by 757 and 639 more persons were admitted and 169 of the youngest officers were produced. In 15 multinational peace operations, 674 members of the Serbian Army participated. In each of these operations, its members were evaluated by the highest grades, praised, and in each operation they were asked to stay, increase their number and go to more operations. So much for this amendment. I hope that in the voting day it will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31729	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31730	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment concerns health development in the Republic of Serbia. I believe that by adopting this amendment, it gives new impetus to Serbia's European path, to improve standards, as well as to the conditions for the lives of our citizens. In principle, it is about introducing a new and fairer system of values, as well as raising the ambience for life to a quality higher level. It is very important to continue the successful development of our health system and thus to find and correct past mistakes with a particular emphasis on further development of the information system in health care and the integration of health institutions in the continent, which functions by example for developed countries. In our health system in the last few years, a large number of young professional staff have been implemented from the middle and high level of education, fully competent to accept all the challenges ahead of them and to further improve in continuous work by winning new skills, as well as to implement their skills in improving the work of health services, and primarily for the benefit of our fellow citizens. I note that the former regime did not have the ear to invest in health care and human development, so in many environments we came into the situation that we do not have sufficient number of specialists in different areas, and no necessary equipment. I'll refer to the facility I come from, which is the House of Health in Loznica. It used to be a health center composed of two organisational units – General Hospitals and Home of Health. The former regime has divided the facility into two completely separate continents, although they are in the same yard and we share the same facilities. Two administratively separate administrations appeared under the same roof. This has increased the number of administrative workers, and at the expense of the number of health staff. It's not the only problem that's created this unreasonable division. Namely, young doctors, who had acquired the condition of specialization, were unable to apply for the same because they belonged to a different institution. They were thus in a subordinate position compared to a small number of young colleagues who worked in the hospital work. I expect the Minister of Health, and we have a promise that as soon as possible, it will correct the mistake of the past, because it will be for both health workers and our fellow citizens who need medical attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31731	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31732	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. Article 2, as we know, defines the basic concepts and their meaning. In Article 2. The draft law is added to point 15, which is an affirmation of acquired qualifications, i.e. capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to develop the Republic of Serbia overall, with a specific reference to improving health conditions. The National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia, as you know, regulates the area of qualifications, i.e. formal recognition of acquired knowledge, i.e. Competence. This is important for the creation of a youth employment policy, and professional medical workers and the approval of specialisations, especially those deficiting in the Republic of Serbia, such as radiology, pathology and anesthesiology. I am saying this because four linear accelerators were released into work for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia acquired 700 million dinars last year. The apparatus was deployed: The Nis Clinical Centre two apparatus, the Kragujevac Clinical Centre one apparatus and the Institute of Oncology and Radiology of Serbia in Belgrade. With the purchase of six more World Bank loan machines, Serbia will finally meet the world criteria according to the number of air therapy apparatus per capita. We therefore need qualified professional doctors, so for two years about 4,000 medical professionals are employed, of which more than 2,000 doctors are approved and about 4,000 specializations are approved. Also, the implementation of a new integrated health information system has begun as a modern and modern form of work organisation and communication with citizens. As part of the so-called The “izi” system is designed to establish an electronic recipe that will contribute to much less traffic in health homes, but also facilitate chronic patients’ supply of the necessary medicines, and this requires new knowledge that is accompanied by new technologies. This amendment further defines the basic concepts and their meaning, and therefore I believe that it should be accepted. In the end, if you will allow me a non-binding comment, respected ministers, visiting on N1 television, you have shown the authority of the minister who comes from your knowledge and knowledge of the issue of education. The attempt to provoke N1 TV's host has been supervised, and she, by school terms, has been sent into a corner.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31733	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? National MP Zoran Milekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31734	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, after the acquisition of qualifications, or formal recognition of acquired competences is the most important capitalisation of acquired knowledge. The idea of capitalising knowledge is often delayed until the very end of schooling. Sometimes only parents or families do so, while students themselves pay less attention to it. Financial descriptor leading to the so-called To cash in diplomas, as we say in the people, will be a project to be implemented in Serbia, in pre-school institutions and primary schools. Children will learn how to save and plan their home budget from childhood. Through workshops will develop a project approach to learning. Addressing the problems of everyday life, and most important, they will learn to distinguish between real - life desires and needs. They'll also learn who's doing business in the bank and how to safely buy online. I support this project and welcome the positive attitude of the educators and teachers, as well as the teachers who presented on this issue. Since this is a pilot project, I sincerely hope that the project will expand and become an integral part of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31735	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31736	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to Article 2. I have submitted an amendment to the NOX law, which adds point 15 and which reads – Afiding acquired qualifications – Capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to tax liability. The objective of the amendment is to further define the basic concepts and its meaning. The draft law defines procedures and guidelines for the development of qualifications standards at all levels, as well as the provision of conditions for timely receipt of reliable information on the possibilities of acquisition of qualifications. This is important because of the need for staff and educational profiles in line with the high-tech needs and demands of modern industrial production and the modern labour market. In order to adequately meet the needs of modern technological development, investment in the development of expert staff is needed to achieve defined objectives and to achieve the best possible results in the work. I would a little bit just support this by a practical example from my personal and professional long-term experience and work in the banking sector and the real sector of the economy, because otherwise I come from NIS "Gasprom Naft", because I have often had the opportunity to participate in the selection of staff in employment, and I know how important and important personal competences and the expertise of staff in selecting certain tasks in short-term areas. I therefore believe that exactly the proposal for a NOX law will contribute to the affirmation of these personal competences of each of the future staff and young people who will be educated. One way to invest in the development of staff is to definitely announce the opening of the innovation start-up centre, and what I especially enjoy is to announce the opening of such a centre in Užica, the city where I come from, and that is good news for us Užičana and for all of Western Serbia, which I believe and I know that you, Mr. Minister, have supported and I hope that you will support it because it is very important. In this way, young and professional people, future innovators and scientists, working in a modernly equipped space, which will jointly equip local administrations with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will have the opportunity to work on their projects, scientific research and to apply them in practice, thus helping and contributing to the development of the pleasure economy, the economy of the entire end of the Zlatibor district and large and successful companies Impol Seval, Valjaonica copper, the dedicated industry and a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises that are successfully operating in our region. What is important is to point out that this will make it possible to create new jobs and that young people will thus remain living and working in their own regions and thus contribute to the development of the overall society and the development of the country in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31737	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go, fellow Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31738	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as this law will regulate an area linking education, qualifications and the labour market, I believe that this amendment would only further notify the importance of improving business and the overall environment, the economic ambience of the Republic of Serbia. New technologies and technological innovations require permanent training and education of both employees and unemployed persons. Capitalisation of acquired knowledge is important for the development of the labour market in order to welcome in the future new technologies and new challenges that bring time ahead. If we accept the reality that constant learning is a model for the future, we will very quickly reduce the difference and arrive at the developed economies of Western countries. Economic growth, growth in earnings and the continued improvement in the economic environment and conditions of business are the permanent task of this government, and I believe all future governments as well. That's why foreign investment is important to us, especially with new technologies, which make it easier for us to access learning through practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31739	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31740	Thank you, Your Honor. And this amendment concerns my favorite issues of sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda. It is again my attempt to strengthen through this amendment and through this law all the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the economic and sustainable development of the Republic. Yesterday, we had a comment on the finding that the Republic of Serbia would surely eradicate poverty before 2030. Normally, because this President of the Republic, this Government, this congregation majority have both a goal and a vision and a mission and us rapper aren't some exotic countries out there far away, but orderly businesses like Spain, Italy and that former environment maybe the Czech Republic and Hungary. That this law is moving in that direction is also talking about a few of the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 UN Agenda. So to reduce inequality within and between countries by 2030, strengthen and promote social, economic and political inclusion of all, regardless of age, gender, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion and economic and other status. Also, one of the goals is decent work and economic growth, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including young people and persons with disabilities, as well as equal pay for the work of equal kind and value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31741	National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31742	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, affirmation of acquired qualifications is needed to view it as a resource for bringing in foreign investment and employment as many people as possible from which budget stabilisation arises. What we have all heard and noticed, and what is a very good news for me, and this is what my colleague Marian was talking about, is that Indian "Tafe" came to IMT, that a similar tractor would be produced again to the famous "533" that could carry 80 plugs and that was most popular with our agricultural producers. We talk a lot today about agriculture, about agricultural schools. I know some that are very high-quality and that are at the level of certain institutes where almost everything about agriculture can be learned, we've heard of others, here, today I've heard that there's such a high-quality school in Futoga, I'd mention this one from the Svilinca we all know, in Smederevo there's something less quality, but what I'd say to you, Mr. Minister, and what I'd ask you to think about it is that Smederjevska Palanka has more than 50,000 inhabitants, 30,000 residents living in the village, we don't have a single section of agricultural school. It is often mentioned only the city from which the messenger comes, not my goal. Let's treat all the cities of that size and think that there are agricultural schools in them. Why? Because we're going to educate these people and we're going to be able to hire them right now, in what way? By leaving them and their fathers' estates and helping them, as we are now helping a foreign investor to come to Serbia. It's absolutely interesting, and it would make people who don't have a way to stop their youngest where they were born and where they live. What is a pandan for these quality agricultural schools, and you have seen for yourself recently, is Gosa School in Smederjevska Palanca. It is a school that has educated staff metal professions, crafts and machine technicians for the 7,500 holding corporation that once had so many employees in Palanca, 12,000 in the former Yugoslavia. I'll remind you of a few sentences. By the time Yugoslavia fell apart, we'd been producing Chet-type cars, I'd been working at the railway station for 12 years, at a speed of 220 km, you heard me well, nothing in this country was done as fast as possible. And where is that vehicle? It couldn't have been done here, normally, in Germany and Austria, and it was exported to Ljubljan, Zagreb, Belgrade, Iraq, Iran, the Soviet Union. For the Soviet Union we made a composition of a wagon that is made of stainless steel for the temperature of exploitation minus 70, plus 60, let this burn all. It was "Gosa". That's what we want it to be again. The engineers who are yours and my generations and who still exist in the Palanca have an electric train project that is not assigned to this foreign investor, who from the wagon, who has 20,000 passenger wagon positions, started producing wagons with three thousand positions, they are freight and after two years completely bankrupt and now we have a company in bankruptcy. So what's not in bankruptcy and it's still in Gosa, and let me just tell you and it'll certainly distract your attention, is that we have a company of metal equipment and construction. By the year 2000, all the steel structures of the bridges had made these what the Belgraders are crossing here. And what I still want to tell you, listen to me, Minister. So this company produces machines called the so-called machines. Coxa pushers, they are produced, reassembled and re-exported to the Soviet Union, operated in extreme conditions of high temperatures and self-sustained. When the machine is disengaged, one machine is transported to 26 wagons. One machine transports 26 wagons.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31743	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31744	Well, you've well noticed that it's a very good high-school technical school in Smederjevska Palanca, which has succeeded alongside the great carelessness of local self-government, but indeed big worries, I don't politicize what I'm saying, but I'm visiting Serbia, school and I'm saying what I see and what I agree to. But thanks to Director Starčević and his team, they have preserved a good teaching frame, doing their own studies, so with the help of Gosa they also work parts of robotics and modern teaching. Serbia's state will invest over 300m dinars in that school. If you heard earlier, the technical school in Priboj over 400 and some million, these two schools about seven million euros, meaning in the 18th year, it really is a huge amount of money and a huge return of these resources and anyone who comes seriously to the customer or interested in "Gossa", will know that there is this resource available. It's good leadership, it's ambitious, and it actually sees everything. We talked about the resources of agriculture and it depends on local self-government. They could have sat down last year and already, together with our team from the Ministry of Education, designed profiles in view of what you say about the need of a local, economic activity, consult the labour market, and therefore form a department. The Ministry's door is open, we've imposed this style of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31745	National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's my colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31746	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed this law connects educational profiles and the labour market in the best possible way. For us, long-term forecasts are very important to the needs of the labour market, especially in the field of increasing our country's infrastructure capacity. When it comes to infrastructure, I would especially like to highlight those routes, or projects that connect us with Republika Srpska. These routes will not only bring investment into those areas and make life easier for citizens in those areas, they are proof that Serbia does not forget its people on the left bank of Drina and that it wants to strengthen these ties further. We also had a chance to see today after the two presidents' meeting, that Serbia will invest fivem euros in the development of local self-government in Republika Srpska. I would also like to set an example of the LJubovija Bridge – Bratunac, which was built in October 2017, where the Republic of Serbia invested 660 million dinars. I am also very happy to hear about the construction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo road. This highway would continue to Corridor 11, more specifically from Požega towards Užic towards Kotroman, and this section is 60 kilometers long and will have 66 bridges and 22 tunnels. I hope Republika Srpska's leadership will choose to continue this highway along the Visegrad-Rogatica-Sokolac-Pale and through the Republika Srpska and will bring new investments and easier lives to Serbian and Republika Srpska citizens, where it passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31747	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here's your colleague, Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31748	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, one to the primary goals and tasks of the dyed local self-government and the mayor of Dr Goran Cvetanovic is a constant work to improve the quality of children's lives. Up until now, 75 million dinars have been invested in the renovation of educational institutions from the city of Leskovac budget, all to provide students with a warm classroom and a better place to learn. Almost no school in the city, where there were no significant investments. There are 39, primary, secondary, high schools, as well as college. In addition to the city, the new glow was also given to many schools in villages, such as Pečenjvac, Cekmin, Drčevac, Gornji Krajinc, and the new school was built in Svirc. With the help of the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all this has been done. In addition, at school for primary and secondary education, music school "11. October is also equipped with the first sensory room in Leskovac, and the pay for corrective exercises was built. The success of music school students, local self-government rewards every year by buying pianos. Five drunks have been bought so far in the last five years. The primary school "Petar Tasic" and "Aca Simadinović" in Predejan, received new physical halls, and the construction of the hall at the "Vozd Karadjordje" school in Leskovac is under way. There have also been 16 courts built for small sports and many more mobileists, 120 small and five large mobilisers, so that woody youngsters and youngsters have an adequate place to play and play sports. The town of Leskovac has been constantly making significant efforts to provide citizens with better and better quality treatment, modern ambulances equipped with modern appliances, in the past five years, have renovated all hospitals in the area of the city. A large number of the Leskovac General Hospital departments have received a completely new look, such as the Oncology and Children's Neurosurgery Building, the EEG Office, the Dependence Disease Department. There is no service in which at least something has not been done, and the Department of Urology, orthopedics, gynecology, pediatrics, Internal Medicine, gastroenterology has been renovated. With the help of donors there are 15 apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31749	Thank you. I had to hang up, because I gave more than 25 seconds, the parliamentary group no longer has time, please excuse me. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31750	To Article 2. The draft legislation on the national qualification framework, I have submitted an amendment with the intention of introducing in the draft law a point of 15 which would aim at an affirmative analysis of the fact of qualifications on the development of the Republic of Serbia. A special benefit provided by this law through its application can be demonstrated through the fact that a national qualification record will be established, and in addition to that there will be a connection, that is to refer the national framework to the European Qualifications Framework, which will have an important effect for Serbia and will feel it through positive economic co-operation, and the law also provides for a link to the qualification framework within the Bologna process, which will define an educated system and assist the education system in the Republic of Serbia. A very important job waiting for Serbia on a clearly defined European path is the harmonisation of domestic regulations and legislation with EU legislation. With this in mind, there is an objective need to bind the qualification framework with the European framework and to enable the free flow of knowledge between Member States and Serbia, which, by adopting this law, proves its clear European pathway. With the European Qualifications Framework, the state administration should create a common national framework, a qualification framework that should create a common platform for the employment of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. This enables transfer and recognition of individual qualifications, thus increasing transparency and mutual trust and recognition of qualifications and thus the efficiency and recognition of qualifications in the European labour market. As Serbia enters the EU, Serbian citizens will be ready to work outside Serbia's borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31751	Thank you, colleague Zeleg. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31752	If I may, it may also be the abuse of this pay phone, but I think I am obliged to inform the public that Danilo Ž. Markovic, longtime minister of education in five governments, and it is simply my moral duty to give him some kind of mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31753	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31754	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment reads: "Affirmation of acquired qualifications - Capitalisation of acquired knowledge in order to overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to reducing social differences. By adopting the Law on the National Qualifications Framework and its implementation, I believe that there will be greater involvement of citizens in lifelong education. It will also make our qualifications more recognizable and comparable to the European Qualifications Framework. The National Qualifications Framework Act guarantees, above all, the quality of knowledge acquired, as well as that the qualification system adapts to the real needs of the economy. The unique National Qualifications Framework will first allow every experience, every knowledge to be measured and evaluated. Bringing qualifications will bring transparency and transparency and, most importantly, a standard that will be adapted to complex labour market needs. This system encourages an individual to perfect himself throughout life under equal conditions, respecting gender equality, national, religious, and any other diversity. The aim of education is for young people to acquire functional and applied knowledge, not reproductive knowledge. One of the basic reasons for young people’s poor employment is, above all, the lack of skills needed in the business world and this is, above all, indicated by companies, and then NGOs, or civil society. According to the World Bank, Serbia is in 10 places at the speed of issuing a building permit. That's what I'm saying because today Serbia is a good place to invest. This is how we create new jobs, fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia and reduce poverty, as well as social differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31755	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stanislav Janosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31756	Thank you, Chairman. In addition to witnessing that the Ministry of Economy is working to form such a business economic environment for attracting foreign investors, I continue to stress the importance of what Minister Knezevic is talking about when it comes to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, about how important it is to enable them to go out domestically, but also foreign markets and their co-operation with large companies. A very good example of co-operation between local self-government and peace, small and medium-sized enterprises, domestic, therefore, not only foreign investors, is the city of Zrenjanin. We have formed such a business climate and ambience that domestic companies, investors in the territory of our city, who have been doing business for many years, have the need to expand their production capacities. Some of them are ‘MB Invest’, ‘Union-Impex’ and many others. Their investments in the future, i.e. In the next few days, it will certainly be more than 600,000 euros. The already famous and attractive location "Aviv Park" is becoming increasingly interesting to investors and some of them will continue their business near nearby parcels, while "MB Invest" will do so in the Southeast industrial zone. I am really too pleased with the fact that Zrenjanin justifies the tradition of a good host and a safe partner. I therefore submit this amendment which will contribute greatly to the affirmation of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31757	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31758	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, honourable Members of the People, I have submitted several amendments to the affirmation of military education. The overall development of the Republic of Serbia also improves the defence system. For the acquisition of general and specialised knowledge and skills needed to improve defence systems, military education is responsible. The Military Academy is today a recognizable national higher education institution, which has been a high-quality military chamber for 163 years from high-school high school to highest levels of general staff training and post-graduate science studies. The goal of training at the Military Academy is to educate and train cadets and officers for appropriate duties in the family, service, in line with military missions and tasks and to gain knowledge necessary for further training. The University of Defence is the first university of its kind in the region and is in charge of academic education of officers, genders and services and their continued training in the profession. In addition, this higher education institution unites educational and scientific research work as a component of higher education for the needs of the Ministry of Defence and the military. The military academy is integrated into a system of highly educated institutions of the Republic of Serbia and has been accredited for five study programmes in basic studies and four master studies programmes. The VMA Medical Faculty is unique in the country and region because it combines a medical and military call. University of Medicine VMA applies modern approaches and knowledge from the field of medical science through the organisation and reorganisation of education in the defence system. Study programmes include integrated academic studies of medicine, six academic specializations, three modules of doctoral academic studies and specialist subspecialistic studies in the field of medicine.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31759	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31760	Ladies and gentlemen, if we are working at the same time to achieve two strategic goals, on the one hand to improve the nation's health status and, on the other hand, to create an environment for the birth of more children, we will get a great future for Serbia. When we talk about the capitalisation of knowledge, first of all I mean the health system, the health care of the population, I would like to point out one term that speaks of human mobility. What do I mean? I'll give you an example. Today is the mortality of cardio-vascular diseases in the first place. If we allow the personnel to be mobile by one pyramidal structure and educate the staff, we'll get a quick transfer of knowledge. What does that mean? If our top experts from certain areas go abroad to the best places to perfect themselves, and then after that they transfer their knowledge to their colleagues within Serbia, hospitals, centres, etc., we will get trained personnel who will be able and the most complex interventions to work in Serbia's interior as well. We achieve a balanced development of healthcare and achieve that mortality from these diseases and some others is significantly lower, and the disability that carries the ability of people and huge money from Serbia's budget will thus be preserved. So I'm talking about mobility as one of the methods of development and capitalisation of knowledge in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31761	Thank you, Dr. Jovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31762	Dear Vice President, the overall knowledge acquired must reflect intellectual, moral, work-technical, aesthetic and cultural competences. If some journalists, such as Cvetin Milivojevic, Olja Bećković and individual university professors, such as Slobodanka Turajlic, had cultural competences, would not have been on N1, CIA TV, all SNS MPs, SNS management and their voters would have called donkeys, idiots and human zeroes. So the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, was called, quoting - a liar, rude, there is nothing human in it, every lie, ready for anything. It's a finished quote. I haven't seen this kind of satanization in our space. To a fine professor, doctor, former assistant minister of Education Turajlički, I recommend that all of these terms, respected citizens, which you have heard, frame and hang on the wall of your living room to be reminded every day of its rich democratic and civilization culture, which the distinguished teacher owns. Moral competences are the basic function of every man, including a politician. If Vuk Jeremic had had had moral values, he would not have lied if German Chancellor Angela Markel hadn't wanted to see the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, in Berlin, and President Vukic, apparently not only of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia but of the whole world, went to a meeting with Angela Merkel in Berlin and conducted very important talks for our country. That is why this amendment is very important, so that future Serbian statesmen in the likeness of Vuk Jeremic and university professors in the likeness of Slobodanka Turajlic will have at least a minimum of moral qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31763	Thank you. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Laketice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31764	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, above all this proposed amendment, I wanted to further point out the importance of the tasks and objectives of the national, or functional-national qualification system. What I consider to be the most important institute of this law is to provide quality training or human potential qualifications. For SNS, people represent a resource that needs to be preserved and cherished. Of course, this resource should also be professionally designed in line with market needs. If we're talking about professional transformation and investing in that resource. What I think is also very significant is that the time has come for the final state to ensure quality of qualifications in terms of both diploma and certification, because at a longer time interval, unfortunately, that particular element was missing in our education, quality assurance. In addition to personnel providing this quality, I am sure that it is necessary to provide valid learning, on the one hand, but also valid space. It's exactly the space we're talking about, and it's about education institutions, and I'm going to say what the Ministry of Education did to the public investment office in the city where I come from, and that's Prokuplje. The complete reconstruction of the school "Ratko Pavlović Ćicko", the "Nikodija Stojanović Tako" school was reconstructed, a complete reconstruction of the secondary agricultural school, reconstructed all the outcast toilet departments. For this year approved funds for high school and medical school amounting to over 100 million and sports hall "9. October’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31765	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31766	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the Republic of Serbia, a single national qualification framework is established covering all levels and types of qualifications regardless of the way they are acquired and the time of life in which they are acquired. This enables the integration and coordination of the existing qualification system. The reform process will improve the education system by bringing out competent individuals who can respond to labour market needs, society as a whole, but also meet their personal needs. Investment in education improves the economic and economic development of the Republic of Serbia, which also affects increased regional co-operation, which is one of our country's priorities. The National Qualifications Framework connects standards of qualifications and standards of interest and through the register presents them to citizens and employers. It clearly defines what skills and abilities an individual has after acquired education and what kind of work he can do. By establishing and implementing the National Qualifications Framework in Serbia, in order to connect with other countries that apply their national framework and our country will join the European Qualifications System, which will significantly contribute to resolving the problem, hiring the population and improving the development of society and markets in general. The national qualification framework defines the area where qualifications are established, describes the level and type of qualifications, competent bodies and processes that are related to the establishment of a qualification system, while respecting the specificities of the national education system, the principles of European educational practice, in particular the European Qualifications Framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31767	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tanja Tomaševic Damnjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31768	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia is heading towards connecting the affirmation of acquired qualifications with the improvement of judicial institutions. For the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, it is very important to function effectively in the justice system and work at all to improve judicial institutions. To this end, Serbia has brought a national strategy for judicial reform for the period from 2013 to 2018, followed by a phase of improvement, i.e. the precise definition of the adopted legal framework, institutional and professional strengthening of the capacities of the established state council of prosecutors, the High Council of the judiciary and the Judicial Academy, as well as the integration of the judicial reform process with the European integration process. In the beginning of the work of the Judicial Academy, a legal institutional framework for the contemporary education of judges, prosecutors and other judicial employees was established. Over the past two years, two regional offices of the justice academy in Novi Sad and Kragujevac, which have so far organised more than 200 trainings for the holders of judicial functions and the number of judges, deputy public prosecutors, judicial and prosecutorial associates, who have perfected their expertise at the academy, through constant and specialist training, is only in one year close to 10,000. It depends on strengthening the expertise of judicial holders, as well as on the employees of the judiciary, on the ultimate effect we all want to achieve, which is the confidence of citizens in the judicial system and equal access to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31769	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. That someone wants a word, too? (Yes) The word is Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31770	My amendment concerns improving health care in the context of capitalisation of acquired knowledge. This law affirms acquired qualifications, affirmations of equal qualifications, based on labour market needs. The law establishes a single national framework covering all types of qualifications. By establishing NOX, it will be defined what each individual can and can do, according to their acquired qualifications. Benefits are made by employers and individuals, including society. The employer will have insight into who and what the labour market knows to do, especially that is important for foreign investors who do not know the degree of education of the country in which they operate. We all expect the doctor who treats us to have the right qualifications, which means he has knowledge, skills, attitudes, abilities. The only thing no one can take from you in life is knowledge, so let's turn to science. In Europe, the quality of healthcare has been strengthened since the World Health Organization "Health for All" was adopted. We had a rebirth during the government of Alexander Vukic. Health care equals lifelong learning. Health care is a segment that touches all of us, which should monitor all innovations, all of the achievements of the World Health Organization. 'All innovations of preventive measures should be implemented quickly, education of human factors, otherwise excellent experts owned by the Republic of Serbia. The law should ensure the visibility of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Serbia, with qualifications acquired in other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31771	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31772	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31773	Thank you. The title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Professor Dr Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I once again have to express my dissension because we've been discussing this much time on the least important law in the field of education. In Article 3 of this massive title of the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework, you set out its objectives. One of his goals, number 9, reads: "Providing the comparison and visibility of qualifications acquired in Serbia with qualifications acquired in other countries". As I asked my amendment to delete the entire article, because the proposed text is foreseen through several members of this law, and you, in your reasons for not accepting this amendment, states: "The amendment is not accepted because the formulation in the bill in an adequate way contributes to the improvement of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia and its integration with the European Qualifications Framework." The government of the Republic of Serbia through these draft laws, which it sends to the National Assembly to vote so aggressively pushes for adaptation and compliance with European Union regulations, neglecting its own needs and needs of the labour market, which, you say, characterizes an unregulated system of qualifications and difficult communication with the labour world. In addition to the title of qualifications and length of education, employers usually do not have any information about what candidates know to do and what they are trained to do. We still have a problem of discrepancies between supply and labour market demand, as well as growing unemployment, especially young people, which is one of the main reasons why they leave the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31775	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31776	Thank you. The amendment that we are proposing to change the order by considering it more appropriate I will try to explain to you with the ultimate goal of accepting this amendment during the debate. But the first thing is that it is interesting that our amendment is not accepted by reason that the Government's proposal is more consistent, while an amendment colleague from the ruling majority, who really tried to put a national qualification framework in all possible sectors, is neither accepted nor accepted, and the majority with the explanation that it is not in line with the concept of the bill, and compared to our amendment, where your solution is only more comprehensive. Why do I illustrate this argument to an old truth, that things are never what they seem to be. Nor does the amendment refuse to comply with the concept of the law of colleagues from the ruling coalition, nor does the argument that your solution is more cellular, just seems to stand. Well, good. What do we want with this amendment? To compare these objectives of the National Framework in the following order: firstly, to ensure recognition and recognition of informal and informative learning. We really consider this a priority, because it is the right innovation and what should change the attitude towards learning and knowledge in society in general. I belong, perhaps in the few you have the opportunity to meet, who highly appreciates the descriptive actions in the one-party society of evening schools and courses of various kinds. Not because they were ideological, whether or not they were, but because you were so tried to raise your reputation, the attitude that knowledge is what we all need. And as I consider it important for those times, so for this time I consider this to be a priority. Second, ensuring understanding, transparency and transparency of qualifications, as well as their interconnections. That makes sense the second order. If you have already put information and informal learning into priority, then it is logical to have a clear list of qualifications that we so deserve and then we can recognize in the national framework of qualifications. Improving access to road flexibility and passivity in the system of formal and informal education. This third one, according to us, is one of the few that I can read in laws, which directly binds to human rights, one of which is accessible to education. The development of qualifications standards based on labour market needs and society in general. I had an amendment that I gave up after the debate in the parliamentary group and I have a very critical view of the ease that in our society and in some other countries, which is a member, which the candidate for the European Union, speaks of about this ease of labour market needs, businesses and education, as if we have no experience of how hard this is going and as if we don't know what it takes to happen in the capital sphere to make this work, and what doesn't even happen in developed countries, except for two or three countries, mainly Scandinavian countries, Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark, that France is completely exempt, it has a completely different, socialistic approach to everything. But I left you without my amendment by erasing. The orientation of overall education on learning outcomes, which builds competences defined by the qualification standard. So this point five, which we're essentially not changing, we're changing the first order, but one of the few that introduces merotocracy, to be valued on the basis of neutral, objective criteria of what you're actually capable of. Meritocracy as one European or Euro-Atlantic, as you will, the core of successful societies. If I'm able to measure myself, by the looks of it, with someone just based on neutral criteria, I'm good for society and for myself. If someone phoned you that I was really good, maybe it would work for me, I wouldn't, I'm ethically disgusted, but, generally, it would, but for society, it wouldn't work. Affirming the importance of key, general and inter-entity learning competences throughout life. This is one thing we all need to learn about. Why is it important to confirm the importance of general and inter-entity competences for lifelong learning? The will to get involved in any moment of your life, the temptation to resist and to forget curiosity and the attitude to know everything is the worm rots every person on a personal level. So you die, not as a child who learned something, as a grown man, who mastered knowledge and began to create something, but as a person to whom evolution gave curiosity and imagination as the key levers of learning everything in the world. It's lifelong learning. That's why I think he should be first in priorities. Comparability and visibility of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Serbia with qualifications acquired in other countries. This is essentially one of those provisions that I would say – relatively well we stand, if you compare metrically, as our qualifications in societies where we measure qualifications go through. I can also be maligned to talk about recognising Pristina and Belgrade diplomas, but it's not a topic. The theme is that we really understand through these criteria what we need to change. With perhaps inappropriate poetic conclusion, I would say that it is crucial that we change what we need to do in each other's sentences to be a Dossyj Obradović and – a book, brothers, not a bell and a pronoun, as much as it sounds after two centuries that it is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31777	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31778	I'm sorry, but I didn't even understand the lawyers and the people who worked on the text that they wanted to sort out the meaning of each of these points in some order. So I might have made some order of my own differently, but it's important that we agree on the essence, because if we're based on the values of our own and our personal abilities and all that, that's exactly what this is about. So, by introducing various external visions of evaluations, starting with state graduations, projects that will lead to no rush just for some assessment and a set result, but for a visible and metric result, which depends on me both careers and futures and the happiness of society. Of course, we must always compare ourselves with some of the societies that are close to us. I really have communication with a lot of colleagues all over Europe, even wider, because I just want to see where we are now in relation to ourselves and where we need to hurry. So I fully agree with you that these values are really important and that these goals are achieved by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31779	Thank you, Minister. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. In my amendment, I asked for a better and more understandable way to define the transparency of qualifications and their interlink. The government, of course, did not accept this amendment and it is its right, but I will only try to prove, through a few examples, that the government was wrong and that it was meant to accept this amendment that I submitted. That's what I'm going to show for the case of requalification and pre-qualification in high schools. There are no clear sublegal acts in this area to refer to what should be managed in the recognition of certain cases, i.e. certain examinations in requalification or qualification when switching from one profession to another. However, there are some sublegal acts, but they are totally inaccurate and there is nothing from them to be managed. In practice, there are many different examples of which are completely absurd. I'll name only one such case. For example, a graduate engineer finishes the Faculty of Engineering, can't find a job with his professional equipment, with an appropriate degree of professional training, tries to find another job and, say, find a job on some technical vehicle examination, and we know that it's a job that requires four years' interest in machinery or traffic. Of course, this job will probably be temporary for him until he finds a suitable one, but if it's a person, or such a machine engineer before the Faculty of Engineering, he officially does not meet the conditions to work on such a technical examination and what happens then? I'll illustrate one example, through one subject. The object of machine elements is studied at the Faculty of Engineering, in a much wider scale than in high school. The Commission, who compares the testimonies there and looks at what it is, sees that such a person did not have the subject and establishes that this machine engineer must, in requalification, pass the subject concerned. For the absurd to be larger, a graduate engineer has the right to teach the same class at that same school where he has to requalify or qualify. Of course, there's plenty more of these cases. Speaking of this requalification and retraining, there are still other different problems where a whole series of sublegal acts that will regulate this area, because for now in this area there is literally government, not to say some expression, things interpret how anyone will or how he likes it or how it seems to be best at a given moment. Any educational institution which is involved in retraining or retraining shall form its own internal commission to determine which examinations, or objects to be recognised, which are exams, or objects which are not to be recognised and which are to be passed. Now we know that the names of the objects are very often changed, and depending on the profession to the profession, the names of the subject are almost identical, with very little difference, but the essence is exactly the same. So, the material being studied is absolutely or almost identical, but these commissions within educational institutions are not handled by whether any material is similar or similar or to a large extent, but are handled by the fact that school, an educational institution should benefit from it and say – not exactly the same object, it has to be laid down again. So that's exactly why, because of the lack of these sublegal acts, and therefore, Mr. Minister, when this law comes to life, when it's put on the market, pay serious attention to this thing, because this is a really big problem. Let's take another example. Let's just say, this is where I set an example of a graduate machine engineer, but we have a face that's graduated from an electrical engineering school and now needs to be requalified for one of the professions of machine, traffic, construction, or other professions, it doesn't matter. Again, the commission I was talking about here means the internal board of educational institutions, looking there, they have an object, for example, electrotechnics with electronics, and this person didn't have such an object, but, let's say, had the subject of electrical engineering one, electrical two, electronics two, formally looking, and above all taking care of the financial interests of the school, because the exams are of course being paid, says – you have to, excuse me, at requalification, i.e. the qualifications to pass that exam. Even if we do have professors at the school in question who find it difficult to pass, then indeed someone who has completed an electrical engineering school can have a major problem with an electrical engineering class that is ten or who knows how many times more studied at the home school. While I'm at the pay phone to say one more thing. Today, there has been a lot of talk in this room about the town of Nis, otherwise I come from Nis, and, above all, because of the citizens of Nis, about the airport of Constantin the Great, which should fall under the authority of the Republic of Serbia. This was most said by people who were not from Nis and people who used to live in Nis and who no longer live there. I really don't want to use this material for both the agenda and party purposes to add up some points, but I want to say that as a member of the SRS and my party we have a position on this, and I will inform the public at the session of the Nish City Assembly that will be scheduled soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31781	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31782	Dear colleague, you're quite right. What you've described has been for years, and it is now. That's exactly what's changing. We have brought here to Parliament a system law on education and special laws, to remind, of primary, high school, preschool where these relationships are now changing. So, no one can play now to take the money and make up objects, you've just said everything that's present, we're going to define the outcome. So you have competences, you said yourself, which is the area of that man, whether it was in those five objects, so, by checking their knowledge and outcomes, you no longer have to ask him to lay down, that's what's going to happen. Of course you're doing a sublegal act in that sense, because that's logical. You said everything that should be logical in that direction because, let's say, there have been reverse cases, that in the 1990s machine engineers without then work, are now wanted, working in primary school as a teacher of technical education. Of course you have to pass both pedagogy and pedagogical psychology, you know, teaching methods and everything. So now some of this is completely preparing for a different outcome and exactly looking for outcomes, so the competences that are now being evaluated lead to a more favourable attitude for every candidate who has them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31783	Thank you, Minister. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31784	Today we have been listening for several hours to the explanations of the amendments of the MPs of the government, somehow they had little to do with the bill's proposal, or to what the law aims, so for the sake of the public, let's remind ourselves, it is the draft law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. Today, some MPs have been repeating NOX, NOX, NOX, and given the explanation, it might be thought that some think of the ceramics salon, bathroom tiles and equipment for the Emperor Dushan in Zemun or the Ibaric Master's Office at Metro, it's called. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 3, in fact, we have submitted several amendments. We first suggested that you delete this member. You didn't want to, because it's fundamentally intruding into the law. My proposal is in the amendment that I've submitted to actually be added here... You said that the objectives, among other things, are to develop standards of qualifications based on the needs of the labour market and society in general, and we say: "the labour markets, the scientific public and society in general". We really don't see what's controversial about this amendment being accepted. You say you can't accept the amendment because it's not essential, but a different language formulation is proposed. It's not just a different language formulation. You know, adding the term "science public" is not just a different language formulation. What's interesting is that you say you don't accept this amendment because it's not essential, and the one you don't essentially accept because it doesn't comply with the concept of the law. So it is nicer to say – we will not accept any amendments to the SRS. Of course, it will also not prevent us from submitting amendments in the future, explaining our amendments in the future. What we do not convince the minister and the ruling majority, we will certainly convince the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31785	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31786	We have reached the 3rd members and targets, as Mrs Radeta, NOX, says, repeats itself, but the National Qualifications Framework. Now we need to say what the essence of this law is, and that is to coordinate their interests with the needs of the labour market, of course, the interests that have arisen after the introduction of the Bologna system in our country, is that right, Mr Marinkovic, since you are the classic student and student and student and doctor... No, his doctorate is suspicious. )......................................................................................................... Okay, if it's suspicious, about that then, I didn't say that, this is where they get it. But as far as the overall situation is concerned, we are now coming up with a key question, Mr. Minister, which is important to the nation. It is really not a narrow political party – is it possible that we should look to the future as well as to the future of all these children who are studying, and those who now have certain titles and knowledge, that individuals are being educated and that individualization is being done for a particular profession? Is it possible that what is fundamental social values, education, calling, what should be social progress, how it has been since the first basic scientific institution was introduced in our country, that now all of this should be subordinated just because someone says it, and here we have heard from the SNS list of beautiful desires, from Bujanovac to Horgos, through LJubovija to Negotina, in these two days, it's nice that they want it all and say, but it's impossible to achieve it just by being a municipality or some government, this government now Ana Brnabić, some previous one, made some master plan and now say – Europe 2025. That sounds so nice when it's written, and is that the education that will be needed in Serbia? Is it the same with me in Kragujevac and Nenad in Bujanovac or at Krsta in Priboj? Of course it's not the same. What one city needs absolutely no need to exist in another. You said, Mr. Sarcevic, when you were identifying what you were going to study like that, and at the time they said maybe -- you know what, Mladen, it's good for you to throw yourself into legal science, you'll have a secure job, say, in the post office. Here, Mrs. Radeta had her first job at the post office and came up with an excellent lawyer, as well as a later deputy minister of justice. You would not have done it, you would have said, so I will not be a lawyer. Right? We cannot, therefore, put everything in these frames without thinking about what is strategically important for the nation and for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31787	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31788	Dear Mrs. Jovanovic, I decided in the sixth grade of primary school what to do. I wanted to be a travel writer, not a teacher, like that Milan Kovacevic who was doing those shows, but he didn't have anyone to push me, so I went to work at school and I liked it. I am really trying to make sure that the education system for the children of Serbia is as good as possible, respecting, above all, the common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31789	Thank you, Minister. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31790	I believe it's also good that you've made your wish come true, but not all children can. Some who even decided to study what they wanted did not agree with the needs of the labour market. I'm going to illustrate this replica by an example of 3,500 agro-engineers in Serbia who last year were in the National Employment Service all over Serbia without a job, 3,500 in Serbia who can thrive on the development of agriculture, but not in this way as the import lobby destroys Serbian agriculture, certain shifts have been made, but through the strategic partnership economically, here we are talking about the area of agriculture, with the Russian Federation. Anything we produce can be exported to a wide Russian market. Someone thinks it's just a story. Here, we have an associate, and I have to mention his name, that is Mr Miloje Stankovic, he is the online circumstances of the council and the chairman of the municipal committee of our party in Topoli, he and before the free trade agreement with the Russian Federation, since he is a prominent businessman and fruit farmer, exports from the topol area of Serbia's most beautiful, forest apple to the broad Russian market. He can call him tonight. I don't know how many thousands of Russians, but he's gone. But we'd have apples if we hired these engineers, if instead of various NGOs and all kinds of nonsense, we'd turn that money into agriculture, and we'd hire these people, and they'd be sure that their education is consistent with the labour market.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31791	Thank you. The word is made by Minister of Labour Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31792	I have no intention of replicating, you're all right, after all. But we're talking about another system. We will soon have a strong Dosite, it is the information network of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We're working on it, because the one we have now isn't exactly complete. When we arrange a little higher education and its quality and when we ask the employers if there is a complete system, because this is not a finished story, then it will clearly stand with which no job is waiting, which you can get it right away. But if you want to be an ethnologist, and you know it's three years of waiting on the desk, who's to stop you? It's your choice, it's your will. So we're not fully speaking, but a small number of people will give themselves the right. I was a great student, I had scholarships all over, so I didn't get a job right away, but I worked in journalism and furniture, and it wasn't hard for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31793	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31794	Maybe it's okay, Mr. Minister of Serbian Education, if you didn't leave Serbia, maybe not, we'll see. Article 3 of this Act speaks of the objectives of the law. All objectives and missions and visions proposed by this law, i.e. Article 3, are regulated before one case. Mr. Minister, I'm going to tell you a case, deeply convinced that it's not a very common phenomenon, on the one hand. On the other hand, I'm pretty sure he's not lonely either. In fact, it was Alexandra Tabakov, who graduated in 2008 and was an excellent medical student, then received a scholarship from the Youth talent Fund through the Ministry of Youth and Sports, to continue her education in master's studies in Madrid, realizing that she could further perfect her career and after completing specialisation, returned to Serbia, decided with the amen or blessing of the fund, she remained to finish the specialisation. After returning and completing the specialization, her torments arise. This is Mr. Minister's office. You can't pull out that the government did it before you or anyone else did it. This story begins in 2015 and ends in 2017 when this young girl, a good expert, working on other jobs like you said you did several different jobs, couldn't find a job either in social institutions or in private, because she couldn't do nostration, or translation of her diploma. Very often, earlier, Mr. Vukic, now at this time Mrs. Ana Brnabic says the government is one team. The best way to go through this case is to illustrate that the government is not one team, so she was referred from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development to the Ministry of Health, then to the Regional Ministry of Health, and she failed to solve her problem, and worst of all, some told her that it would be best for her to pick up and return and continue her life abroad, where she ended those specializations. There's a lot of doctors here, thank God, and they can confirm, say, clinical pharmacology, that otherwise there's a deficit interest in Serbia, and we have one such expert who had to look for work out there somewhere on the side. I told you this late, because this case can no longer be intervened, but so it doesn't happen in the future. This didn't have to be learned by the minister, I know that, because the minister has other important jobs, but someone she spoke to, this problem had to reach the minister. He had to tell it to be settled. That's what I told you yesterday, 1960, in 1970, people from Serbia were leaving with the lowest degree of education, and now we have a situation that is no longer so, the most qualitative, most educated, most written leaving Serbia and are not now rivers or columns, but do something to stop it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31795	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31796	I am relatively familiar with these problems, not only of Tabaković's colleagues, but also of other specialists who come from abroad and we as the Ministry of Education couldn't solve it ourselves, because it can't be the ENIK NARIK center to admit it and it's not all over the place by the methodology of how we do it. It's a one-year-old somewhere. Then it would be different, proportionate to what we recognize here by our model and everything that comes out. We've networked with the Ministry of Health and made a joint team to work on this to overcome these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31797	Comrade Peric, you can only by amendment, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31798	The problem of a particular case, it's an important message that the government and the ministry are sending. There's no substitute for a satisfactory response as a People's MP to what you're saying, we haven't been able to solve it ourselves. Which could not be solved by a particular ministry, but with good will it was resolved. You have to work on it. People who leave Serbia in such a way become angry with their Serbia, knowing for sure and the question is whether they will return help in an adequate way tomorrow or not. I hope so. They must be a little angry when they leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31799	The word of Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31800	I have to say, I didn't throw any cases in the basket. All the cases caught up with me, and I just didn't have a legal solution for me to solve it in a way that would make someone happy right away, so we had to make an alliance with the Ministry of Health, work on these models that aren't typical of our system. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31801	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Neđo Jovanovic, Miletic Mihajlovic and Mirjana Dragas. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31802	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, we held a single position yesterday in the discussion of some of my deep convictions, which is that because of the introduction of certain terms, the words that should not be contained in the text of the law we are discussing, not only this one, but any one of us, we are coming into a situation that we are bound by foreign words, which is at the expense of the original Serbian language. We have also found and I think that it is the right thinking that exactly such concepts, not only harm our original Serbian language, but also lead to a variety of misunderstandings, when one situation is created in which the law is practically applied. That is why I repeat one appeal to you, Mr. Minister, and especially to those who represent in a specific case legislators, that one of these bad practices is given up as soon as possible, or not to apply it. I am aware that through the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, we will not be able to avoid all these traps of introducing foreign words into our original Serbian language, but it is important to preserve what is authentic – ours. We mentioned terms such as decryption and descriptor. What's that word for? What makes the word target, when can we say target? Why don't we say a descriptor or a viewer instead of a descriptor? Which is why we use a Latin language that is undeniable, a language that is being studied, especially in law school and medicine, where decry is really in the translation of description, but it's not an adequate term for what we want to have in law. In law, we should have a clear notion, a clear meaning. Semantics is a science of meaning. We've kind of trampled the Semantic Principles here. Semantics is part of linguistics, so we've stepped down some of the principles here. I think that in any case, we should take care of something that implies that the original Serbian language remains the original Serbian language as the basis for any content in any text, including the text of the law. This amendment does not refer to the objection, but refers to inconsistencies in the law. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to consider something that would be very good when reading this law and keeping in mind whether the same concepts in this law are in the same way, or whether these concepts appear in the same way, or whether they lead to certain dilemmas and misunderstandings. In a specific case in Article 3 paragraph 1 point 6), we have asked that the words “teaching throughout life, ” which is correct expression and correct termology be replaced by the words“ for lifelong learning. ” Lifelong learning as a concept can be viewed by the correct concept, or we cannot underestimate it under something that is wrong, but this lifelong learning is actually translated into English. So it is far more acceptable to say – learning throughout life, not lifelong learning. However, as you have set in the law the term "lifelong learning" so that it is permeated through the entire text of the law, it would be good to set one consistent principle of notional solutions and to finally define whether it is the concepts of lifelong learning, which I honestly am not, or the notion of "teaching throughout life", which is correctly and originally the Serbian language correctly spoken, but if in this law all life learning is something that is present in the entire text of this law, then let's be consistent, so let every term that binds to lifelong learning be just that term, and not that we have inconsistencies in this sense whether learning is throughout life or lifelong learning. Of course, this will in no case radically alter the law. He can improve it anyway. Many who deal with logistics and Semantics will agree with me, those who deal with grammar and Serbian in particular, but what we think is most important in the SPS parliamentary group, it is most important that we avoid ambiguities and inaccuracies in norms. As a lawyer and a lawyer, I face huge problems that occur precisely as a result of the ambiguity and inaccuracy of the normity of the law, which is why the judiciary literally slaved to unequal court practice, so that two completely different decisions come out of the same factual situation and based on the same legal basis. Why? Well, precisely because of the inaccuracy and inaccuracy of the norm that is interpreted from one larger one in a larger way than the other in a different way. This law will not apply to courts, although it is theoretically possible, but this law, like everyone else, must have a principled administration, what I said, and that is the clarity and accuracy of the norm, so please bear in mind this amendment that we have proposed. I know it's technically difficult to correct now, because a number of amendments have been rejected, because the government has not accepted them, but ultimately, the resolution board can propose something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31803	Thanks, buddy. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31804	Without intending to argue that you're wrong, but this term has already entered the system law of education, and it repeats itself. So this is one coin and a synonym of what you're talking about. She's getting a little tired. Now, with the lawyer's language, I'm not a lawyer, I've already become a norm, so it's totally relevant now and what I say or what you say. I really think that implanting with the European Qualifications framework has a different connotation and need. We took care of it in the second part of the system laws, but I'm saying, it was a dilemma when we were doing a system law on education that was fundamental, which is much more important to contain all those semantic elements that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31805	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31806	It's obvious we're thinking the same way. I thank you. It's possible that you didn't understand the first part of the explanation of this amendment, because I really said - I don't question the correctness of the meaning of lifelong learning, nor do I think it's wrong, but I was just talking about consistency. If that's an appointment that needs to be accepted systemically, then let's make sure it's all in the law, not changing it. Lifelong learning class, lifelong learning class. So it's just about principle and nothing else. Otherwise, we totally agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31807	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivana Dinic and Danica Bukvic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31808	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, together with my colleague Ivana Dinic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3rd point (7) concerning the improvement of co-operation between relevant stakeholders, i.e. social partners. That amendment shall make technical corrections in order to clarify the definition. National qualifications frameworks of the Republic of Serbia regulate the area of qualifications, i.e. acquired competences, thus further improving co-operation among social partners. The formal and informal education provides the necessary qualifications, which contributes not only to the provision of quantitative, but to the quality of the staff needed by the real sector of work. The social partnership is a joint co-operation with the goal of success in addressing the problem of unemployment and encouraging employment. This law gives social partnership a significant role. The social partnership must be a long-term sustainable model based on the mutual trust of the social partners in order to achieve quality solutions. Social dialogue as an institution is the basis for the society's further progress in the domain of social policy, and the social partnership is a form of co-operation in order to build a future in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31809	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31810	Thank you. Article 3 The bill defines the objectives of the NoK Republika Srpska. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed amendments to item 1 point 9). I believe that the text of the law will be adopted and should read: "The provision of comparison and visibility of classifications acquired in the Republic of Serbia with qualifications acquired in other countries, which must be taken into account in the protection of state interests". The adoption of this amendment would affect the obligation of the competent authorities to take care of the protection of national interests. As one reason for the adoption of this law, it is stated that the National Qualifications Framework is being established, with respect for the national education system. The principles of European education, practices, in particular the European Qualifications Framework, the rule of law in Serbia, continue to be brought into line with EU legislation. The position of the SRS is clear, that Serbia should not enter the EU. The fact that you want our NOK to be set up similar to Europeans will not bring some benefit to the citizens of Serbia. An increasing number of our citizens are moving out of Serbia, especially young ones. Many also go to EU countries, but go and work as a cheap workforce, because there is a need for such a workforce. There are cases, but there are fewer when our highly educated people leave, because here they don't see better days for themselves. It's high time that the authorities in charge wondered where this country was going with cases like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31811	Thank you. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojljković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Dušica Stojljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31812	Thank you. Serbia ranks 40th based on the gender equality index. In this area we are indeed recording excellent results when it comes to the availability of education, health, but also gender budgeting. According to these results, we are also better than many EU members. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The NOK law, which defines the goals themselves. The purpose of my amendment is to create a society of equal opportunities, equal opportunities for education, lifelong learning, career advancement and participation in the labour market. We want women and men paid equally for the same job. When it comes to gender equality, I want to say that women in Serbia are at least 30% less paid than men for the jobs they do, and we really have to fight it as a society. When it comes to politics, the situation is better. We also have a prime minister today, and a governor, and a president of the National Assembly. And in local, urban, republican and legislative bodies, we have a large number of women. We show that SNS women are really a priority and women are really important to us. We show as a party that women today are truly equal partners both in the economy and in politics and in general in society as a whole. Women are no longer iceban, women are not icaban in either economy or politics. It is important that through the education system we really improve all their necessary skills, the skills that are important for the labour market, which are important for politics, but also for the development of entrepreneurship. It is in this regard that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President, Mr. Alexander Vucic, recognized that female entrepreneurship is our development opportunity and that we want to single out significant budget funds precisely for the affirmation of women's entrepreneurship. In voting day, the SNS will support this really good legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31813	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Kostic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31814	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 with the intensities to point out the importance of increasing investment as a driver of society. Certainly this government recognized that the number of illiterates would decrease and increase the quality of education, it singled out 21 billion more in this year at the Ministry of Education than in the previous year. Certainly, the more advanced development of education policy is not possible without this investment, and the kind of investment that the Ministry of Education is, in its division, also in modernising the structure of secondary schools. Nearly 1.5 billion dinars have been allocated to these purposes, and I must stress that 218 million have been invested more this year in modernising high schools than last year. One of these schools is Branislav Nušić High School in Sokobanja, which used 80 million dinar funds. These funds certainly improved the comfort of the school's students, and it is very important, given that the Ministry of Education has given a special aspect to tourist schools this year, as tourism has proved to be a branch that certainly contributes to increasing Serbia's GDP. The school also applied a project to modernise secondary vocational education to provide the best equipment in the student kitchen, where students of the chef and waiter profiles perform their professional practice. Sokobanja is also a tourist resort where all these staff can find their jobs later. This kind of dual education that the SNS advocates in any case in this school has found its right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31815	Thank you, colleague. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tarbuk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31816	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear ministers with fellow Serbian citizens, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 3 of the NOX law, to add item 10, which would point to the effectiveness of local self-government. The proposed law establishing the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia will benefit from numerous entities and the most state institutions and public services which, thanks to the consistency of the education and qualifications system, can now be obtained by professional, capable public servants. The transformation of the state to the service of citizens, with greater efficiency of the work of civil servants, simplifies a number of administrative procedures and, ultimately, a cheaper state and its apparatus can only be established by professional employees trained through a system consistent with the needs of the economy. In all segments of society there is a need for modernisation in this perhaps and most, because it rests the entire state system. The establishment of a rational, efficient local self-government creates conditions for the overall development of the state. In my deep conviction, the functional state begins with a well-organized local self-government throughout its territory, a successful state growing from its local self-government to other republican authorities. I hope that these laws and amendments that we have proposed today and these days, the rule "ftp1" will disappear, meaning "you lack one piece of paper", which was a tradition in our spaces. That is why I call on my distinguished and respected colleagues in voting day to find the strength and time to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31817	Thank you. Marko Parezenović: I'm taking my word for it. ) On what basis? (Marco Parezenović: Next only.) You're not next. I thank my colleague Tarbuk. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here's a colleague of Parezanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31818	I thank the chairman. I was already talking about the importance of improving education, when it comes to the development of the economy, the private sector on the one hand, and also the public sector and the provision, i.e. the higher quality of public services to citizens. In that sense, I want to share with you both ministers and with all my colleagues and with all the citizens one good news. Today, a decision has been taken at the city council session of the town of Čačka to enter into the final negotiations with a large German company from the auto-industry, the company "Vorvek Autotek" from Vupertal, which has been in existence for about 200 years and which will in the next period in the town of Cačka build on about 65 thousand square metres of plants that will invest close to 50m euros, which will mean work for more than a thousand citizens of the Cačka and Moravia district. This is a historic moment for our city and also the biggest investment in the past 30 years. I would especially like to thank the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, for starting negotiations with this large company about a year ago and ending them today as president of Serbia. I also want to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for its large infrastructure investments, because without highways and economic zones, we would not have had anything to attract investment, but also to highlight the importance of reforming education, because when we negotiate with foreign investors, the first thing they ask us is what our structure is like, what are our secondary schools, what are our universities like? One of the parameters for the arrival of this large German company was that we were able to convince the company's representatives that we could provide qualified workforce and an adequate structure of education for the development of their factory, that is, their company in Serbia. That is why I think it is important to adopt the NOX Act, because it, like all previous laws that have come from the Ministry of Education to the National Assembly, raises quality, the overall quality of education in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31819	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bakery, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31820	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I have submitted one amendment, third in line, despite Mr. Zivkovic's opposition and recommend that MPs of the ruling coalition do not submit amendments. As I was saying, this is my third amendment, the third of the approximately 300 that the SNS has submitted, and contrary to the 1300 amendments the opposition has submitted. Unlike them, only a few MPs from the opposition are here today in the O.R., and we are all here and we are all discussing our amendments. We read the laws, we understand them, we defend them, we try to bring them closer to the citizens. The amendment that I have submitted under Article 3 of the bill to add a point of the 10th, which is to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on capacity utilisation. Article 3 refers to the objectives of the National Qualification Framework of the Republic of Serbia, and one of the objectives is certainly the development of the Republic. Given that I have singled out informal and informative learning, education as well as lifelong learning, although some MPs here oppose such expression, it is good that these concepts exist as some of the objectives of the National Qualifications Framework, and other than NOX objectives, principles are also important. One principle has drawn particular attention to me and is interesting to me, and that is the principle of equal opportunities. This principle of equal opportunities says that the possible qualifications regardless of the years of life, regardless of gender, difficulties, disturbances in development, racial, national and cultural and social culture, ethnic and religious membership, regardless of language, sexual orientation, regardless of the place of residence, material and health and other personal characteristics. I call upon the MP, since I no longer have time to support this law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31821	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lint, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31822	Dear Mr. Minister, I would like to introduce you to a problem facing a number of exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska, who during the "Storm" criminal action due to general chaos, have failed from their homes and apartments to bring diplomas of finished high school. Long years after the war, they face a number of problems. In the first place, if they want to be hired through the National Employment Service, they can't do it in the profession they've completed, or if they want to attend the qualification programmes, requalifications, they can't do it either, because they don't have that degree. Unfortunately, during these unfortunate war events in 1995, by Croatian forces, complete documentation was destroyed in one part of the secondary schools in Kordun, Banija, Lica, Northern Dalmatia. I give an example of the technical school "12. January" from Vojnic in Kordun, where the documentation does not exist and the exiled Serbs who finished that high-tech school "12". January" in Vojnic tried and tried in various ways to get assurances from the Ministry of Education of Croatia, but failed. A part of these citizens also addressed you with memos, asking the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development to try to find a solution to giving them confidence in the completed high school. Otherwise, if our ministry doesn't solve it, they have to finish fourth grade again, they have to take extra cases from the first, second, third year. So I urge you and the Ministry to try and find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31823	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31824	Mr. Linta, I was recently in Croatia and had a meeting with the minister, i.e. Minister of Education, and previously here in Belgrade. We have launched a series of topics concerning, above all, the status of education of the Serb minority in Croatia and the Croatian minority in Serbia. So we have all these questions that someone from spite won't give or forward, somehow I mean a good deal, because the interest is mutual. When it comes to the procedure of burning someone's archives, he can prove it. Unfortunately, so far it was only possible to go through an outsider procedure. There are no other mechanisms. It's just the adoption of this law that leads to a system of recognition of previous learning being valued here. If we had that now, we would have solved it elegantly, but we will, so it won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31825	You have no right to the replica of your colleague Lint, and there is no time from the parliamentary group. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31826	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honors Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. For viewers to say Article 3 practically lists NOX targets at nine points. So I suggested adding a 10th point to these objectives, which would be to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular focus on the development of the education system. We have discussed here and through a debate in principle and through a debate detailing the amendments of most aspects of this law, so I think that the viewers and our citizens who followed this debate through television screens could understand the essence of this law and that, as in the objectives, it is stated, that this degree of force will have a feedback on improving, perfecting and adapting, further adapting our education and education system. Here, a minute ago, we heard the minister's answer to our colleague Lente's parliamentary question. You can see that by adopting this law, the possibility of recognising the diploma of these fellow citizens, who, by force, have lost their diplomas in working age. So, here is an obvious example of usefulness that will bring and be useful in everyday practice for the recognition of diplomas, not only from previous schooling, but also a diploma for nostrification of foreign citizens and ours who have studied abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31827	Thank you, Professor. On Article 3 of the amendment, National MP Ostova Mijailovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Popovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Popovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31828	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this Article, item 10, is expanding the list of basic objectives of the National Qualifications Framework Act. Namely, ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and is the primary and strategic objective of this law. Our country's development primarily relies on investing in the professional training of young people and investing in infrastructure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that it handles these very principles, taking care of balanced regional development. In addition to the construction and reconstruction of large clinical centres, we have very significant investments in regional health systems. The Uzica Health Centre includes three general hospitals and 10 health homes, which provide health care for more than 300,000 citizens of the Zlatibor district. Over 500 million dinars have been invested in this facility for the past few years. The reconstruction and adaptation of all homes of health has been performed. 30 modernly equipped sanitary vehicles have been purchased, new computer equipment is installed in each organisational unit. At the same time, at the Užice Health Centre, the job was obtained by 300 health workers, and 50 new specializations and sub-specialization were distributed, ending the decade-long bad practice of human renewal. By training and perfecting personnel and opening cardiosurgery in Uzic, the government has sent a message to all Serbian citizens to seek equal availability of quality health care in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31829	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31830	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The national qualification framework, which defines the objectives. My amendment concerns the protection of particularly vulnerable groups. First of all, I have to point out that the bill, through the principle of equal opportunities, has created a prerequisite for the protection of particularly vulnerable and particularly sensitive social groups, and therefore, this is also a prerequisite for increasing the percentages of these categories of students and adults in the acquisition of qualifications. Also, I must point out that for every parent, and for the government of the Republic of Serbia, health, security, security and education is one of the priorities for their children. In this regard, I would like to commend the Co-operation Protocol signed by the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of the Ministry of Education, which refers to the introduction of the subject of the Basic Security, where trained police officers who have acquired all the necessary skills and skills are training students to identify the problem of abuse and violence, to identify the problem and the harmfulness of the use of psychoactive substances, and all in order to prevent and eliminate socially undesirable behaviour in a later period. Also, I have to point out that according to M.O.P., the number of juvenile crimes has been reduced by 8.5%. Also, I would like to point out that in the Palilu municipality of all 17 primary schools video surveillance has been provided, which also improves the safety and safety of children. Education, safety and safety of children are SNS priorities and we will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31831	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31832	Thank you. Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia, which adds point 10, reads: "The provision of overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to industrialisation". Article 3 defines the objectives of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. We waited 10 years for this law to finally come to the agenda and congratulate the Ministry of Education on the good law they proposed. I also understand why the law is not proposed by the former regime, though. Since industrialisation must take a key place in Serbia's development, they did not have to worry about NOX's goals, because the industry did not exist. Take, for example, Alexine. In the territory of Alexinca, there were about 30 legal entities employed from ten to a thousand workers. Half of them engaged in industrial production and represented the moto development of both Alexinac and the environment. With exceptional management capabilities these companies were first brought to the brink of destruction, and then successfully privatized by the system – a lock at the gate and workers on the street. That's why we don't need to be surprised by the number of unemployed we have. Thanks to the good government policy we've had in the last four years, you can see the light at the end of the tunnel. Gramer, Vabis, Colds, Monico, Colmax are proof that something is changing. What makes me particularly happy is that other than "Gramer" in Aleksinac, domestic companies are also doing it successfully, not only doing it but also expanding their production capacities. I know this isn't enough and it takes a lot more effort to get... (President: Comrade Radčević, bring the end. And to reduce unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31833	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31834	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, this amendment further defines NOX objectives with the aim of investing in knowledge. Investment in knowledge is the most profitable investment, because knowledge has an unlimited potential for growth. Knowledge is used to improve productivity and efficiency in a given system to create a market advantage. To make Serbia's overall development more optimal, it is necessary to make the best use of all knowledge and skills that prevail in one area. The closure of social firms in Baja Basta has left over 4,000 workers out of work for a very short period of time. For a large percentage of these workers, as well as for the rural population, raspberry is the only income. Since the current production of raspberries creates uncertain market conditions, it is necessary to improve the way of production through the protection of the geographical origin of raspberries and standardisation of production through association into cooperatives and the creation of possibilities for the opening of the plant for the processing of raspberries and strawberries in general, in order to place the final product at a better price and to make the best profit. It is also necessary to protect the geographical origin of honey that is of exceptional quality and to organise its processing, and in the future, when road infrastructure develops and puts into full operation of Ponikve airport for transport, it should also consider opening a regional market centre, where farmers from all over the county and beyond could exhibit and place their products on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31835	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milovan Drecun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ivana Stojljković submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31836	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Minister with Associates, the proposed amendment for the basic objective is to further highlight the priorities of the third member of the bill and the areas covered by it. The proposed amendment speaks of the nature of inclusive education. So the inclusion is actually the answer to the growing exclusion of a large number of people from participation in the economic, social, political and cultural life of a society whose are an integral part. In parallel with this, the inclusion is still a strong movement which in various ways seeks to achieve quality, open and just education, according to the scale of each man, because it is the right of each of us. And as long as we as society have arrived in that sense, the question is which we are looking for the answer, and above all, of those whose voice, by the rule, has been found for years. Over the last few years, there's been a lot of talk about inclusion with us. When we say “inclusion, ” the vast majority think of children with special needs in regular schools. If looked wider, the inclusion refers to the social model in which a society lives and to the degree of acceptance of diversity in that society and this does not apply only to children and adults with special needs or to a certain degree of disability. Inclusion is a crucial story of accepting anything that is not average, which is not commonly standardised. The inclusion relies on the principle of respect for diversity and the belief that diversity enriches the world in which we live, and inclusive education is an attempt to provide quality education for children. Since we talked a lot today about my hometown, the town of Nis, I would like, for the sake of the public, to highlight the project of the Science and Technology Park in Nis. The first phase of building and forming a student center for innovative entrepreneurship in the Faculty of Electronics in Nis is completed, and the second and third phases will be completed by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31837	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31838	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia. Article 3 regulates the NOX objectives we have talked about these days and I believe that this article should add a point to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, of course, with special reference to the regulation of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. Even when Dushan's code was passed in 1349, it said that judges should judge according to the law, not judge by the fear of the empire. Although it has been nearly 660 years since the law was passed, today it seems that some judges in Serbia have more fear than the tycoon, than during Emperor Dusan's time the judges had of the emperor himself. We have one side of the SNS fighting for an independent and free judiciary. On the other hand, we have tycoons who are pressuring judges through the media, and on the third side of the people who want justice, people who want to know who ruined the factories, who's responsible for the bad privatisations, and which is why a lot of people are left on the street. Whether this amendment is adopted in the voting day or not, it is certainly a very high-quality law that will have my support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31839	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31840	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this law, which adds point 10) to the development of undeveloped municipalities. By preparing the amendments I have submitted to this law, I have analysed all the members in detail and I can freely say that the adoption of the Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia is probably the most important prerequisite for foreign investment in Serbia and that other entities must be involved in this business, in addition to the ministry. Employers and investors want concrete things, i.e. they want to see qualifications and what someone can do and can do. Because of European integration, the harmonisation of documentation and qualifications cannot be seen only in the context of Serbia, but rather in the context of the European integration, we must take into account how our qualifications can be recognised in other countries, but also to recognise the qualifications of others on the Serbian market. It is evident and simply inevitable that in order to address the problem of unemployment in Serbia, co-operation of the education and labour markets sector is necessary, and it is important to stress that the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested huge resources in local self-government in education and employment in Serbia, through procurement, technical assistance and infrastructure, thus ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular underdeveloped areas. I must stress that the integration of the education and labour market system is a challenge not only for Serbia, but for all EU member states, and, according to the recognition of our European partners, Serbia has made great progress in raising awareness in the area. It is very important that companies more than now recognise informal education, where most of the skills are not acquired formally but through work, because such skills often have greater value in practice than a formal diploma. (President: Bringing the end, colleague. ) Given that a small number of people with diplomats acquired are returning to undeveloped areas, the above-mentioned need for recognition of informal education, which has a certain future...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31841	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a colleague, Compirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31842	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of establishing the National Qualifications Framework Act is multiple, both at the level of individuals and society in general, will make a significant contribution in all spheres of life. I therefore propose an amendment to Article 3. The bill – point 10 is added, and it reads: "security of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the improvement of justice". Reforms lead to an effective judiciary and make it possible to have justice available for all citizens of Serbia, a reasonable trial, as it lasted years and decades earlier. Therefore, a new Law on the Protection of Rights and Trials and the Law on Enforcement and Security has been adopted, which has helped bring an important number of cases to an end. The state has shown its readiness to respond to the challenges and demands of citizens to respect the rule of law and an independent, impartial, effective and responsible judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31843	Thank you, colleague. We didn't have to warn you for two minutes. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ana Karadzic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31844	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, as I have mentioned many times today, the area of education is one of the most important when we talk about gender equality. The pillar of our country's development is education, and it is important that we certainly put gender equality into the goals of this law. With this amendment, I stress that the efforts that the Republic of Serbia is making in gender equality are indeed great, but are also giving results. That is why we can say that we are in the 40th place of 144 countries and have left Croatia 54th place, Macedonia 67th place and Montenegro 77th place, which means that we are fighting the right way for this society to be equal opportunities for all our citizens and citizens. It is important that we continue the Strategy of Gender Equality, and I believe that the security of our country's development with a particular emphasis on gender equality is certainly an important objective of implementing this law and therefore I ask the MPs to take this into account and to vote in favour of this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31845	Thank you. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31846	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, once again I insist on a special consideration of Serbs in the region, especially when it comes to ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about Serbs in the region, I will only mention some names: Dučić, Matavulj, Kočić, Shantić, Andrić, Dositej, Meša Selimović, Jaksic, Crnjanski, Georgije Bozovic, and all the way to Njegos, Marko Miljanov, with Tesla and Pupina, we will conclude that all our education and all our most significant education would not be offended by central Serbia, of course, but it comes from the edge of the heart. Many of these were not born in Serbia, many had no Serbian citizenship either, but what is a culture without regions, what is our education and what is our tradition without these names? Therefore, taking care of the region and having a big relationship with the region, when it comes to education, is more than significant. I live in Banat in a multinational environment, here is Mrs. Lakatosh's MP, whom I have great respect for, and I have great feelings for the Slovak national minority. Why the Slovaks? Because that part of the Slovenian people has no contact with its queen, there is no limit, but their way of preserving their education, their culture and their tradition is indeed an example and I wish all Serbs in the region were like the Slovaks. On the other hand, what is the Serbian culture without Slovak naive painting, no Slovak lace, no Slovak game, no Slovak sausage and no Slovak wine? Many Slovaks today come from Slovakia and among Serbian Slovaks or Slovaks in Serbia find the roots of their traditions, their education. (President: Bring the end, colleague Krlić. () Of course, their production is getting bigger and bigger. Let me just say, they didn't come from Nis to buy vineyards in Srem, to sell them, to live in Belgrade, but to live where they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31847	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31848	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment also envisions an affirmation of modernisation in the context of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I must say, I am sorry that he is not with us and Minister Ruzic at this time, although he was in the afternoon session. I wanted to ask him how he looked at the citizens' initiative to call an extraordinary local election in the city. So I will repeat, it is an initiative to call an emergency local election signed by 20,000 Paracino citizens, out of 49,000 registered voters' lists and this speaks of legitimacy. A team before the Paracian municipality was known for its numerous malfeasances. The latest in a series was announced yesterday in the media that the director of the Construction Directorate has installed a 12.5m-dollar job. Therefore, only one bidder, the company Transcopo, who is otherwise known for being placed all over the city by its dice, reportedly, has reportedly appeared to be a company that has been operating for years. It's a family relationship, a godfather, that's how it works. So the company made a joint offer together with Putotehna d.o.o. whose owner is employed in the company "Transcopy", while Putotechna was founded by the founding capital of 100 dinars, which received 12.5 million dinars from the municipality for the purchase of asphalt. So this is just one in a series of affairs that shakes up that community. It is normally the only municipality in Serbia in which the DS is in power and I hope that there will be an extraordinary local election there very soon, that things will change there as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31849	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJibuška Lakatoš was submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague named Lakatos. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31850	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues, do not mind me, but at the beginning of my presentation I must thank my colleague for such nice words and I would like to stress that Serbs and Slovaks have been living in the best possible relations in these parts of Serbia for centuries. But let's go back to the proposed amendment. Serbia's overall development as a serious society must be planned in the long run in order to achieve a sustainable future. We need to think about opening new jobs to improve living conditions and raise the standard of our citizens. We seek to make Serbia an economically strong state, to achieve greater employment and productivity. To address unemployment in Serbia, co-operation of the education and labour markets sector is necessary, and all in favour of the economy. It is necessary to encourage a strategic framework for co-operation in education and training that will include all stakeholders. The result should be the application of the concept of lifelong learning. Also, through the acquisition of new skills, we can adapt to new conditions and possible changes in professions and thus reduce unemployment and increase employment productivity. It is very important that NOX has common principles with the European Qualifications Framework, in order to facilitate the interpretation of qualifications between countries and education systems in Europe. In the coming period, we need to invest more in the education and training system at all levels. This will create all the preconditions for the faster development of our country, and the desired goal of Serbia being a highly developed society led by the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic will certainly ensure the accelerated development of the school system. For all things said, Your Honor, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill, where point 10 is added, reads: "The provision of overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the school system".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31851	Thank you. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? He's a colleague of Janjušević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31852	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, my amendment further defines the objectives of NOX and certainly for economic development. NOX defines a better investment environment and through NOX we create a platform through which we understand investors better, whether they are foreign or domestic. In that part of education where we have mandatory IT as an object, where we have dual education. We have two very important works in that talent detector of our young people, so, as a nation in this country, we have so many talents that we simply need to strengthen the way in which we detect what they are talented for, then channel them to top careers, thus pushing Serbia into a better future. On the other hand, that part of informal and informative education, lifelong education, also in some ways disturbs many people, disrupts them from being recognised in some way through a certain degree or certification. Look at the biographies of many successful entrepreneurs, owners of large companies. Each of them began his career, more specifically, there is no biography, and there is no sentence that he worked at some workplace he calls a part of the opposition's work force a cheap worker. You always have an explanation, if I hadn't had a job like this, I'd never have made it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31853	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? He's a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31854	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in agricultural production that needs to be linked to the processing industry as close as possible to the site of production has a place to produce renewable energy. Only on abandoned agricultural land that was abandoned during a party of the former regime or usurped, over 400,000 hectares can be produced with significant amounts of energy, which on the one hand was diesel, can enable the land to be processed using this bio-engine, and on the other hand, the production of renewable energy can be produced with which the agricultural products produced in the field can be processed as close as possible to the place of production into finished products, so we can find a job for farmers and workers and we are on a good path. Today, Borko Stefanovic, a member of the former regime, accused me of being a farmer, a generation farmer, so I am doing it in 60 years on agricultural land, accused me of having an intention, as he called it, to rent 200 hectares of agricultural land as a regimeal barker and to process it. It's a serious crime for members of the former regime, doing agricultural land, sweating, because they didn't even nail the wall, on which they could even sweat a shirt to hang, if anything. So someone who sold the country along with Jeremic, someone who participated in the sale of NIS, someone who changed their name, someone who changed his residence because of politics, found that he resented farmers, behold, miracles, intended to rent agricultural land, but only forgot that there was a price to rent. In their day, it didn't exist. Here is the document, the Indji Municipality, the usurped land was 154,442 euros a year. So it was equal to 750 pensions and so much they put in their pocket, and their boss, of course, except for Djilas, Pajtic, was Borko Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31855	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? I'm a colleague of Petkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31856	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, the amendment I submitted to the Bill on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia on Article 3, which reads: "The provision of overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the digitisation of the state administration" was particularly inspired by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's efforts from the period when she led the NGO sector. The position of the government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly digitisation and better education as two basic priorities for Serbia, without which there is certainly no development. I would if you let it divide into several spheres, primarily the sphere of education and the sphere of industry. The major changes at the level of education have contributed to the introduction of e-enlightenment and e-data and represent a national platform for digital record-keeping, analysis and reporting of results and improvement of impact, as well as the alignment of the curricula and programmes in all primary and secondary schools. With regard to competitive applications of workers who are almost fully digitised, an unnecessary administration has been resolved, and thus a chance has been created for the new jobs of high qualifications. The process of digitisation in industry creates a new value and increases our export potential and therefore digitisation is a chance for new jobs and for young people to remain in Serbia. The digitalisation process itself is today the most important sector of accelerated growth and a key competitive advantage, and Serbia through the acceleration of the digitalisation process and the application of innovation and new technologies in the industry, creates a chance to get closer to other developed countries in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31857	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Col. Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that one of the objectives of the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia must respect and strengthen the security structures of the Republic of Serbia. I think today all Serbian citizens have pleasantly surprised two news. One news came from Moscow that Defence Minister Alexander Vulin is on track to negotiate the delivery of four MI-17 transport helicopters and four MI-35 fighter helicopters, known among military experts as so-called. Tank killer. The other important news is, and the news is possible thanks to the fiscal reforms we have been implementing since 2014 and other important news is that today, at a meeting of Republika Srpska Presidents Milorad Dodik has agreed that the Republic of Serbia from the budget will help with 5,000 euros in 15 municipalities in Republika Srpska and an additional 500,000 euros for the restoration of Orthodox churches and monasterys located in the territory of the Federation of BiH. I think it's good news for both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, it's good news that includes strengthening peace and stability in this region of the Western Balkans. Therefore, SNS MPs believe that the bill should also respect the need to strengthen overall security in these areas, including the premises of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31859	I thank Mr. Martinovic. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The NOX law and, of course, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia comes first because the state of the Republic of Serbia is our country. We don't have another state like the ones that aren't here today. They probably have some spare states. Otherwise, to work hard to recover by 2012 the destroyed Republic of Serbia also shows that over 30m euros from the budget have been invested in the last two years alone, and that money is provided primarily by the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by then Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, now the president of the Republic of Serbia and the responsible SNS policy. What I can say is that it is truly commendable that you announced a reconstruction of the physical halls. Why? Because our children have great deformities, i.e. the deformities of the spinal column are increased, and of course they need sport through school classes and you show once more that you care about our children and not only provide them with good conditions to work through teaching, but also to play sports, which is really necessary. What I still want to point out is that the town of Kruševac, where I come from, takes care of the best students and stimulates our students to achieve good results and that through the budget fund for the development of young talent, we encourage them to fight and to compete with the best students every year. We will continue to support you and, of course, in voting day, we will uphold this good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31861	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31862	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with associates, the proposed amendment is added point 10 in Article 3, which reads - Ensuring overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on financial stability. Financial stability is necessary not only to promote internal stability but also to attract foreign direct investment and encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is important for their economic integration with European countries. In order to make this progress, high-quality personnel in all sectors of the economy need not only the necessary knowledge, but also crafts and skills. Organizational learning is a process and a key to a competitive advantage for the company because it directs the company in a proper way to carry out business processes faster and better, to make it cheaper, to produce and distribute better than competitors. The withdrawal of foreign investors affects overall development and stability. In addition to the government's strong pledge, the NBS has significantly contributed over the past five years to reducing internal and external imbalances, lower borrowing costs, greater income available, more sustainable acceleration of economic growth, significantly lower country risk premiums, repair of the country's credit rating, as well as repairing the rankings on the Duing business list of competitiveness. The increase in credit ratings is primarily the result of successful fiscal consolidation and the fact that fiscal results are better than planned over a longer period of time, leading to a sharp decline in public debt. Maintaining price stability and strengthening the banking sector are important factors in increasing Serbia's credit rating. These are all factors directly affecting our country's overall development and financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31863	Thank you, colleague Ognjanović. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31864	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, and this amendment of mine is heading towards ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on social equality. I believe that units of local self-government must be partners of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in achieving social equality. Leaded to build a social protection system for the benefit of all citizens, especially those most vulnerable and most vulnerable categories, the city of Leskovac in 2014 allocated significant financial resources for the adaptation and rehabilitation of the facility for the needs of the safe house, which became the first licensed safe house in Serbia and was licensed for a period of six years. For the sustainability of the safe house from 2014 to today, significant funding for financing of material costs has been allocated from the town of Leskovci, but also for funding of expert associates. Qualified and high-quality personnel, except in social institutions, are needed in all areas of our society and the adoption of the NOX Act will achieve that Serbia has quality and qualified staff who will be able to carry out work for which they are trained after school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31865	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31866	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out with this amendment that it is of great importance for a person with certain competences if they play a role in the field of traffic. Transport infrastructure forms the basis for the development of the economy. Good traffic integration is crucial for the development of local self-government, for the development of regions and countries as a whole. This request can absolutely be answered by well-qualified persons, while at the same time good and ambitious management will be very important, in order to assist in the application of this law with regard to the harmonisation of data from the education system and data from the labour market. How crucial the element of infrastructure is, to an even greater extent, investment in education contributes. Since the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have shown high confidence in the SNS, management in the Ub municipality's territory has recognised investment in education in all levels of education as a priority. Almost all schools have been renovated, new facilities have been built, classrooms are equipped with modern means of work. The co-operation of school and municipal leadership is at the highest possible level. The successes and good results of the Ub municipality business are presented to the president of the municipality, then the highest assessment of the external evaluation of our home school in Ub last year, and as the state of affairs has convinced you, the distinguished ministers, during your visit last year, and I thank you for that. In the last two years alone, 39 million dinars have been invested in the home school in Ubba. So serious approach to solving problems and modernising the basic elements for the development of our society absolutely provides Serbia with a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31867	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Milojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31868	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the NOX bill. In Article 3. I propose that the 10th point be added – Ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. Amendment 3 sets the private sector's improvement as one of the main objectives of NOX. I have already noted in previous talks, all of this is important, because, as we all know, after poor privatisation and destroyed businesses, our economy is destabilized. However, the responsible policy and host management of public functions by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have improved dramatically over the past few years. It is the private sector that has taken over the workers of failed social enterprises. Also, I must support the efforts led by President Aleksandar Vukic through incentives, plans and programmes for the development of the private sector and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. In Arangelovac alone, economic growth of 3% was recorded, leading to a proportional increase in electricity consumption. In order for our economy to advance, it was necessary to find a way to increase production and enable businesses to employ new workers. This will be possible after the construction of a new trafo station, the first in Arangelovac since 1959. The foundation stone was set just over two months ago and I expect this project to be realised in the most recent future around three million euros. I want to thank Mr. Greek and his associates for the excellent co-operation we have achieved with the realization of this very significant investment, which will greatly raise the level of economy in Arangelovac. Similar practice is in other parts of Serbia. I am convinced that the years to come will bring about a better and constant growth of the economy and the progress of the standard of living of all inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia, which is the primary goal of all the MPs of the respected home.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31869	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31870	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr Minister with his associates, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is aimed at submitting this amendment to Article 3. The bill adds the 10th point -- ensuring overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on the development of medical centres. In Serbia, all the skills acquired at universities in the education process are recognizable beyond our country. Qualifications acquired in our country in higher education schools are generally recognised in most countries of the world, and this primarily refers to the recognition of acquired knowledge at the Medical Faculty. Graduations acquired by education at the Faculty of Medicine in Serbia, whether it is Novi Sad, Belgrade or Nis is acceptable almost worldwide, so our doctors do not have to nostifify the degree of the Medical Faculty when going to work outside the country. They are primarily a good education system, with a very experienced teaching doctor's staff, trained to transfer knowledge and skills and out of the country, that after obtaining a doctor's degree in medicine and completed specializations they do education both in the country and abroad. Our hospitals have become good polygons for training practical knowledge, future doctors and nurses. After that, they stay as fit, they end up specializing and afirming as doctors. Our doctors are members of various forums, closely specialized health development groups in general and are active members of Serbia's social-political life. The National Assembly has over 20 doctors on this term. In the Serbian Parliament, the second term is already under way by the parliamentary group on reproductive health, gender issues and HIV, which is dedicated to public representation, protection and promotion of human rights, sexual rights, reproductive health and gender equality in all areas of social life, especially the care of vulnerable populations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31871	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My colleague, Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31872	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted the amendments in order to point out the importance of investing in education on the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. The system of education that we inherited is unsustainable, ineffective that we have a major outflow of trained personnel abroad. It was a signal for education reform. Namely, the national qualification framework will bring education into line with the needs of the labour market, including our system in the European system of education, will allow education to children and members of socially sensitive groups. Education reform is a step forward on the path of development of the Republic of Serbia. I must also point out that the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken a significant step by introducing measures and strategies to encourage population policy and demographic development. So, given that in the last 25 years we have a negative natural growth and that in the coming years we would not come into a situation to import labour, the government is introducing the necessary measures of population policy. Namely, President Aleksandar Vukic, opening a recent plant "Bizlink" in Prokuplje, pointed out that one Podujevo has more residents than the entire Toplice. For this reason, the municipality of Kursumli headed by President Radoljub Vidic since 2012 has allocated significant funds to encourage birth, 27 million dinars, so unemployed mothers are entitled to a fine of 20,000 dinars for 12 months for the first and second children, in the third and fourth 18 months for 20,000 dinars. Couples with sterility problems also have the right to cash compensation, i.e. one-time aid of 100,000 dinars. This resulted in an increase in the number of newborn children in 2017 compared to 2016. So, Kursumlia received two schools more, 60 newborn children we had more in 2017 than in 2016. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31873	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31874	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, my amendment to Article 3 refers to the addition of NOX objectives, which includes not only promotion, affirmation but also implementation of the 2030 agenda. What the Ministry of Education and Science and Technological Development is doing is that the old conditions after all economic reforms and fiscal consolidation have been carried out, notably the implementation of targets under number 4 concerning inclusive and equal education for all citizens of Serbia, as well as the implementation of part of Objective 8 relating to sustainable economic growth and increased employment. What the Ministry of Education has shown is that it has created conditions for a growing number to be opened in the future and the Serbian government of course participates actively in this, an increasing number of jobs and affects employment directly in Serbia, and this is also an announcement of the opening of a science and technology park in Borca, where 40 Chinese companies will hire more than 10,000 new experts in collaboration with Serbian companies and our universities. It will, above all, be IT experts, nanotechnology, primarily artificial intelligence, was technology, and this is what will bring Serbia directly 10,000 citizens of Serbia, but indirectly 50,000 more jobs. The big project, which will be located on the left side of the Danube coast, is in fact a future silicone valley, which will stretch to 320 hectares and will be worth around 300m euros. The first stage of the practical construction of such objects will begin this year and this is actually one indicator why NOX is needed to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31875	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Savkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31876	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill adds the 10th point – Ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. In 2017, the final implementation of the IPA 2012 project was also continued, under which the first model of the public prosecutor's office for the first-degree public prosecutor's office containing spaces and technical parameters for the higher and basic public prosecutor's office was developed. In 2017, the DVT continued to participate in the EU IPA 2013 project, improving educational activities and improving the organisational capacities of the Judicial Academy, in line with its competence in the field of public prosecution training and co-operation, which it has in this respect with the Judicial Academy, the involvement of DVT on this project included participation in working meetings and active activities in the working group, the improvement of the functioning of new structures within the jurisdiction of the Judicial Academy. In order to further strengthen its capacity, DVT continued to participate in the programming of the IPA 2017 project, which as one of the components has to strengthen the capacity and co-operation of DVT in the field of strategic planning, human resources management in the public prosecutor's office, the budget for the public prosecutors and the career progress of the public prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31877	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boban Birmancevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jokic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31878	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, the NOX objectives in Article 3 are given from one to nine, and when they are added together, they give an implication that is said to be the security of Serbia's overall development. So all that's written here has only one goal, and he's the most important one and he solves everything. In order for that to happen, I would specifically single out and explicitly say what is the most important task of NOX. The most important task of NOX is to increase the employer and the labour market. There's an unsettled qualification system on the labour market. The labour market must have a qualification system, so you must know exactly who knows what and who can learn, because when the employer comes to the labour market, either at the fair, or in any form of organization, he knows exactly what kind of worker he needs. The labour market must offer such a worker to the employer. At that time, both the labour market and the employer will be satisfied, as the employer will receive a worker who will improve its production and the labour market will be satisfied because the number of unemployed will be reduced. To that end, I have also proposed this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31879	National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Collegine Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31880	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, citizens and citizens, colleagues and colleagues, as far as we care about children, about their development, their future, their education, say that the City of Belgrade, i.e. The Department for Education and Child Protection singled out 890m dinars for school reconstruction. So, the capital investment budget for pre-school institutions and schools is three times higher this year compared to the previous year. Children's centres, resorts, which owed employees salaries until last year, are the result of the previous government, are now able to invest from their own resources, and over 1.5 million children have gone through those children's resorts and centres. The city of Belgrade is investing 320 million dinars in children's resorts. And what did the previous government do about schools in Belgrade? In 2012 alone, during the construction of the "Milena Pavlovic Barili" school in Palilula, it was found that shooting a facade at this school only two years after the opening was a result of rapid construction, disrespect for drying layers. I'm talking about a school that has 1,000 students, and that's why we have to pay for a fence that has to protect the children. The "Jovan Ristic" school in Palilula was built in 2010, which began to leak two years after the opening. I could still list such schools as Miloje Vasic in Grockoj, Queen Maria in Ovca, where millions and millions are invested. I don't have time for the amendment anymore, but it's important that their time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31881	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Jancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31882	Dear Members of Parliament, Article 3 of the bill defines the objectives of NOX, and does it have a more important goal than Serbia's overall development and the improvement of the work of local self-government? Of course not. That's why we from SNS are completely committed to this big deal. There is no longer a day without production plants being opened throughout Serbia, so as not to sign numerous contracts with domestic and foreign investors, so as not to create new jobs. Today, local self-government is much easier to identify land for the needs of work zones, the same offices and equipment needed by infrastructure, because they are in every respect supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the AP Vojvodina. In Novi Knezevic, work was launched to organize and equip the work zone as early as 2006, starting and of course stopped, funds spent, criminal charges for non-intentional spending of funds were filed. Their fate, as a rule, is lost every trace, and the work zone until 2016 has been turned into a garbage dump. Everything in Novi Knezevic is directed so that we have this great task and business done as soon as possible and told interested investors from Italy, Hungary and our domestic investors, of which we received letters of intent, you can start building production plants. This will contribute to the overall development of Serbia and our local self-government, which until 2016 was destroyed by representatives of the former regime, using absolutely all state resources and resources of local self-government only for personal wealth and numerous privileges. The citizens of Serbia and we of the SNS will never allow it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31883	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31884	Thank you. Respected ministers with associates, the national qualification framework will, above all, benefit in the field of work and education, as the way it will be provided for in the law will contribute to ensuring the quality of the work process, the results of work, professional education and training. Changes that occur in the technological and economic field are in motion, i.e. create conditions for changes in certain segments of society, thus setting a working environment, of course, that sets new requirements before education. For this reason, the planning of the development of personnel must concentrate, i.e. cover the educational structure, then, the ability, skills and experience. Information on interest must be based on real information and forecasts, primarily on the development of professions, and therefore on employment. Law-making will define what an individual knows to do, which will be of great importance to employers. The establishment of a national qualification framework will improve the career development of each individual, as it will have an accurate insight into what an individual will be able to do, or what jobs he will be able to work on or continue his education on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31885	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31886	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I propose this amendment to be in Article 3. The bill adds item 10, which reads: "The provision of overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of medical institutions". I believe that this amendment further defines the objectives of NOX. After implementing economic reforms, our country has become economically self-sustainable and can now invest much more in medical institutions than it has invested in the last 20 years. That is why I would also like to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this occasion, on behalf of all citizens of the Pomorav County, for the financial support they have provided and which they provide not only to the General Hospital of Cupri, but also to all other health institutions of the Pomorava County. I would like to remind the Ministry of Health's extraordinary decision to organise free specialist preventive checks for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is with enthusiasm accepted by all our citizens. More than 120,000 people were examined in this way, and more than 2,300 people found serious health problems in the early stages of the disease. And Serbia is the only country in the region that allows all its citizens free preventive specialist reviews. Serbian citizens should know that our government has approved that 5,993 healthcare professionals are employed over the past three and a half years, and of which 2,130 doctors, 657 healthcare professionals with higher school supplies, 2,944 nurses and technicians, 262 workers with lower school supplies. Besides, during that period... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31887	Thank you, colleague. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31888	Thank you, Chairman. In addition to the objectives defined in this bill, these nine objectives, I have proposed another as the tenth, and it is based on Serbia's development, which is based on the fight against crime. Crime, not only can be dangerous when it comes to the government's cash and people's money, but it can also be very dangerous when it comes to people's lives. An example of this could be the Kamenica 2 regional hospital, which was scheduled as a hospital for about 1,400 northern provinceers who are estimated to suffer from cancer annually. Construction of this hospital began in 2008 with a plan for the construction to be completed in 2009, in just a year. The project's predicted value was initially around 16m euros. But millions of euros have disappeared, and the hospital, of course, has never been built. It was seven years late with construction and was eventually built by the arrival of SNS to power. Finally, the project reached 35m euros. It is clear that some 19 million are completely gone, but I note, however, that it is not only dangerous for the state register and for those several million euros, but also for the nearly 9,000 lives of people from the northern province, who have never waited to be patients of that hospital. For this reason, I think that this legislative proposal should find one such amendment that will point to the constant need to fight crime in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31889	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31890	The objectives of every good solution, ladies and gentlemen, should certainly be applied to the issue of proper development. Development, overall observation, development that requires both certain support and certain aging. Like, right now, it seems to me, today's announced new 400 million-dollar support programmes that will further encourage all those who start their own business, which will thus further encourage and develop entrepreneurship. When the efforts of a society are organised in this way, then results are achieved, and we expect excellent 4% in the first quarter of this year. On this result, I congratulate everyone who takes care of the state today and thanks to this result today, instead of the planned and projected 32 billion-dollar deficit again, we actually have a surplus, 270m euros, our state register is in plus thanks to serious, responsible and domestic behaviour. Of course, without a proper relationship with the investment subsidy issue, it would not be possible to achieve good employment, it would not be possible to achieve even high productivity, it would not be possible to achieve those export successes that we talked about today. Thanks to the strong support programmes that were primarily targeted from somewhere in the other half of last year to support domestic companies and those investors that come from here, we recorded, among other things, all these significant and significant successes. By doing so, ladies and gentlemen, we are achieving one of our long-term and truly strategic goals. We're building a state that owns a dynamic economy, we're building a country where the main role is played by the private sector and it's essentially, not just like once on passwords, based on knowledge and skills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31891	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31892	Thank you. My amendment to Article 3 is with special reference to the development of municipalities and cities. In order to do so, there is a simple formula that is difficult to realise, which is to create conditions for investors to come domestically or foreignly or to reinvest the existing economy, which is very good if the economy behaves that way. The next most important thing in all of this is to have a qualified and trained workforce, so that this law enables and facilitates all of this. If you have a trained workforce that is ready to work, it means that the economy will work well. The activity of the economy or the well-standing economy fills the republican and local budgets. When they are filled or filled to a large extent, such as the Republic budget, then they are invested from that budget in what the standard of citizens does, in infrastructure primarily, but are re-invested in education and quality of education. This circle, as far as education is concerned, is not closed by the education of a good generation, but by the education of a series of generations and the increasing and greater quality and improvement of education. As far as my municipality is concerned, there's a lot of good businesses I've been talking about. I'd say three figures that may be very important that say that the economy works in Kocelje municipality, which is: the economy, in general, Kocelje's exports two to one. So, he exports two euros, imports one euro. The salaries in the municipality of Koceljev are the first... (President: Bring the end, colleague Maticu. )......................................................................................................... in the Mačvanski County, in the 37th place in Serbia, in 25% of municipalities. The budget of the municipality is such that there are no debts or dinars and no debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31893	Thank you, fellow Matić. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31894	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, I submit an amendment to Article 3 on the proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework and, in the sense of adding point 10, which reads: "The provision of overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. “ The preference of the National Qualifications Framework with the European Qualifications Framework is the procedure that the Republic of Serbia carries out during the EU accession process and has the result of the establishment of a relationship between the level of national qualifications in the Republic and the level of the European Qualifications Framework. Through this process, state bodies, institutions and organisations will apply quality assurance mechanisms of qualifications, upholding the rule of law principles and thus defining the relationship between the National Qualifications Framework in Serbia and the eight levels of the European framework. The amendment puts an emphasis on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia from the point of view of the rule of law, which should be potentiald as one of the more important goals that the Republic of Serbia is achieving on its way to the EU. Education and training have been allocated as significant parts of the EU accession strategy, so this law clearly points to the correct path that the Republic of Serbia is moving in the accession process. For this reason, the proposed amendment should further point to another objective achieved by adopting and applying the National Qualifications Framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-03-0.u31895	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zarko Obradovic and Dejan Radenkovic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the National Qualifications Framework of the Republic of Serbia The People's MP Milena Turk submitted the third amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Col. Veljković. Here you go.
