ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 140 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that I have been informed that MPs Marko Atlagic, Dusko Tarbuk and Goran Chabradi will not be able to attend today. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Friday, therefore, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the acts contained in the agenda set out in the request of the MPs and eventually adopt them and enable them to be applied. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, along with the Assembly of this session, which was convened at the request of 157 MPs, you were also sent a request to hold an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. Therefore, the agenda set out for today's session, and at the request of 157 MPs, is: Agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance; 2. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2018; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act; 4. Proposal for a law on professions of special interest to the Republic of Serbia and the conditions for their implementation; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Acceptable Cycling of Ships in 2009; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information; 7. Proposal for a Law confirming Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia No. 1/2018 amending Protocol B to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia on the definition of the concept of ‘produced products’ and methods of administrative co-operation and the Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia No. 2/2018 amending Annex IV to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia on Trade Facilitation; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the mutual abolition of visas for holders of ordinary passports; 9. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Additional Protocol 5 with the Agreement on Change and Accession of the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe and the Decision of the Joint Committee of the Republic of Serbia on the Law on Free Trade in Central Europe (CEFTA 2006), the Protocol on the definition of the concept of "produced by origin" and the method of administrative co-operation of the Central Europe Agreement No. 3/2013 of 20 November 2013 on the law of the Republic of Serbia on the Treaty on the Free Trade of Trade in Central Europe (CEFTA), the Treaty on the Law of the Republic of Serbia (CEFTA) and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia (CEF) and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the European Union and the European Union, as regards the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Economics, as regards the European Union, and the European Union, as regards the European Union, as regards the European Union, and the European Economics, and the European Union for the European Parliament, and the European Parliament, and the European Parliament, and the European Parliament, and the European Parliament, as well as well as regards the European Parliament, as regards the European Parliament, as regards the European Parliament, and the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament, and for the European Parliament for the European Parliament, and for the European Parliament, and for the European Parliament, and for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament and for the European Parliament and for the European Parliament, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council and the Council, and the Council, and the Council for the European Parliament, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council for the European Parliament, and the Council, and the Council and the Council and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council and the Council, and the Council and the Council and the Council and the Council, A proposal for a decision to elect a vice governor of the National Bank of Serbia. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 170. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a common principle search be carried out for those points 1 to 33. (Vojislav Seselj: Rules of Procedure. Just a moment to finish. Is Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic asking for a word about the merger of these points? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Finalising vote: for - 137, against... (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you my word, just to see what's going on. There's nothing on the screen, just that 169 MPs are present, and there's nothing worse. Please don't let anyone turn off my microphone. They keep turning off my microphone. I ask the services to tell me if we can approach the vote or we can't, not harass the MPs or ourselves. (Vojislav Seselj: I have the right to the Rules of Procedure before the vote. Before the vote? Okay, here, let me see. They're going to turn off your microphone, like they're going to turn it off for me. Just a minute. There's no sign-up for you either. I wrote it in a pen. Don't worry about anything. They say he can. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Vojislav Seselj throws. I have to finish the procedure. I'll give it to you, we'll count it all in. Don't worry about anything. I conclude the vote: 28 MPs did not vote for – 136, against – seven, abstention – one. I find that the agenda has been adopted. Here you go, Ambassador Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 157 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that the National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws on the agenda of the same session, which are conditional or mutually linked, with the decision on each proposal being made separately. We, in fact, have, since we have not voted for this, decided to conduct a single debate on 33 points of the agenda as if these points were mutually conditioned or the solutions in them are interlinked. This isn't the first time things like this have happened. This formalizes the work of the National Assembly. It loses the sense of the existence of the National Assembly, and it is impossible, if I have 20 minutes of opening presentation on behalf of the parliamentary group, to talk about 33 points of the agenda. You see, for Minister Mladen Sarčević alone, I formed the file. All I need for him is a whole congregation debate, because I've been studying his biography all summer. That is why I call you when this is the obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure, which no one can object to calling off the vote, that is to repeat the vote and see, that the parliamentary majority confirms that indeed all these points of the agenda are mutually conditioned and that the solutions in them are interlinked.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42834	We can discuss it of course, but the procedure is respected as per the Rules of Procedure as I must do. So, an extraordinary session, authorized motionors have filed for this session. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP may propose to merge the agenda points, and I have put the majority to the vote, and to the extent of your presentation, I cannot enter because it is not the Rules of Procedure, but only the question of a brilliantly respected procedure on my part. So if you think that I, since only I can hurt the Rules of Procedure, hurt the Rules of Procedure, we will vote. Maybe I'll join you. (Vojislav Seselj: You have injured the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. We'll vote anyway. We'll vote on that injury to the Rules of Procedure. Bosko Obradović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42835	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the people, first of all, God helps all, let me rely on the previous speaker and fully support his opinion that this kind of unification is 33 different points of the agenda in a single search really preventing the MPs from speaking seriously about all these topics. We have, Madam Chairman, one solution to correct this failure now, and that gives us the right Article 97(3). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which says that we have the right to propose a longer search period for parliamentary groups than the time established and that proposal is being decided by the National Assembly by the majority of the votes of the MPs. Please make it clear that we have twice as much time for the proposed agenda points that are in a unique search because I really don't think it's logical, nor right to talk within one item of the agenda about pensions and about the Law on Higher Education and about twenty and more international protocols and the selection of Vice Governors of NBS. It's just that these are completely different topics, nothing connected to each other and, let me say, each other in a relationship and it's not possible in 20 minutes, as many as we have as the heads of Parliament groups, to pay equal attention to such important and very different things. There is now one parliamentary opportunity to correct this failure, to approve twice as much time for the heads of the parliamentary groups, or for a search in this unique agenda, so I ask you to put it to a vote as a proposal, and I hope that the ruling majority will show understanding, rather than naked violence by the ruling majority that prevents the opposition from speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42836	Thank you. Now, I'm going to split your exposure into two parts. First, you did agree with Vojislav Seselj, but you did not specify which member was injured, and we cannot vote on it. The second part's a little premature, but I'll put it to a vote when it comes to that. So we didn't get to decide how long the debate would take. Thank you. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been called upon to attend all members of the Government because the Government has appointed all members of the Government as mandated promoters and of course the governor of the NBS and all of them together with their associates. I put to the vote the proposal of the president of the Dveri parliamentary group, Boška Obradovic, that the time of debate for parliamentary groups is double the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. Here you go. I conclude the vote: 37 MPs voted for – 33 against – two, with abstention – two. This proposal was not accepted by the National Assembly. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to apply for a word with the order of MPs who wish to participate in the debate. Pursuant to Article 157(2) of Article 170(1) and Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, 192 and 193. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle and uniform search of points 1 to 33 of the adopted agenda. Do the representatives of the proposal want to take a word and explain their proposals? Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42837	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a series of draft laws and agreements. We will start from the first, which is – considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. The pension system is one of the most complex systems in society, directly or indirectly, for almost all residents of the country. First of all, these systems provide for receiving our older citizens, the present, the ones who will become it in the future. However, the characteristics of the pension system are a kind of long-term horizon, resulting in any change in this system directly affecting both current insurance and users and the position of future generations. For these reasons, taking measures and managing these systems is particularly challenging because the full effects of decisions made are sometimes seen after several years or even decades. The speciality of the pension system certainly also represents the fact that it is directly dependent on demographic and economic flows in the country, i.e. age structures of the population, migration movements, levels and quality of employment, levels of earnings, gross GDP growth, regional economic imbalances and so on. This means that any movement and any decision taken to change the situation in those areas directly affects the pension system, either positively or negatively. For these reasons, when adopting measures directed at other areas, it should always be taken into account the consequences that these measures will have on the pension system, and this is particularly important when it comes to formulating long-term plans. In the Republic of Serbia, the pension system consists of a mandatory PIO system and a system of voluntary pension funds and pension plans. The mandatory PIO system was made by the Law on PIO, so the bill we're discussing today is being focused on changes in this area. It is a basic part of the pension system, much like in most European countries. Data from 2.6 million insurance and 1.7 million pensioners currently in the system testify to the importance of this type of pension insurance for Serbian citizens. It is a mandatory state system based on the principle of intergenerational solidarity and ongoing financing. Mandatory insurance shall cover employees, including civil servants, members of the military, police and security services, persons carrying out their own activities, including members of the free professions, priests and religious servants, farmers and persons self-involved in compulsory insurance. Each pension system has two basic functions, to provide minimum income to the elderly and to allow the replacement of incomes achieved during the active period of life, mostly based on earnings to a certain extent. Mandatory pension and disability insurance in Serbia simultaneously performs both functions. Mandatory PIO provides protection in the event of the following risks, age, disability, death of insurance and users, work injury and professional illness, as well as the need for care and assistance of another person. It is based on the philosophy of Bizmark's system, social security, and is financed by contributions paid by insurance companies, employers started in 2003. The calculation of the height of the law is carried out according to the point principle. The second part of the pension system, a system of voluntary pension funds and pension plans, began operating on 1 April 2006, and allowed those wishing to invest additionally in order to ensure greater income in age to do so. This part of the pension system is based on the volunteering of membership, the distribution of investment risks and the accumulation of funds. It is implemented through voluntary private pension funds managed by management companies. The employer, the Association of Employers, a professional association or a union may conclude a pension plan with a management company to pay a pension contribution to the account of all employees, or members, and given the relatively short duration of this part of the pension system, it is still in the phase of the accumulation of funds. Why is the reform of the mandatory PIO system necessary? As already said, the PIO must form the basis of a pension system in the Republic of Serbia and is based on the ongoing financing of pensions, which is the case in the largest number of European states. This means that all persons performing some work and on this basis earning income, in principle obligation, are singled out through contributions to PIO funds to finance pensions of current users, thus getting the opportunity to exercise the right to their own pension, following the fulfilment of the relevant conditions. The good part of our people does not make it clear to the end, because we often hear – and where are my money, or – who took my money from me for retirement? Money from the contributions paid was used to pay pensions and other rights of pensioners at the time, as the funds collected from contributions to current pensions are now spent. In the modern form of a mandatory PIO system, developed in the period 1945 and 1970, when the age structure of the population was favourable, the population was young, so that it was a positive ratio of the number of insurance companies to the users, which is why many favourable solutions were installed in this system, from the conditions for retirement, the way of reckoning and pension heights and so on. In time, by changing the demographic structure of the population, the increasingly poor economic situation and the decline in employment levels, this system began to fall into crisis, so that in the early 1990s a deficit arose in financing pension payments and a series of other rights, which provided this type of insurance. Today, the challenges facing the pension system are characteristic not only for Serbia, but for almost all European countries, so that even developed countries in Western Europe are facing them. The causes of deficits and the overall financial insufferability of the mandatory social and pension disability insurance system in our country can be summed up as follows. The country's unfavourable general situation primarily caused by the 1990s crisis, financial indiscipline and non-payment of contributions by a number of economic operators, partly due to the poor situation in which they were found, and partly due to the reduced control of the collection and general crisis in the economic environment, which is again conditioned by the transition to market economy and sanctions, bombing and other serious factors, low employment levels. , the unfavourable demographic situation in Serbia is that Serbia is among the oldest society in Europe, an extension of the life span of the population, solving the problem of extra labour through their accelerated retirement, relatively favourable criteria for retirement, which did not adapt to changes in the environment, low age limit, broad and well-being definition of disability with one-sided exercise of the right to a disability pension, the use of the pension system for short-term labour market problems, in particular a large number of unemployed and excess employees in large economic operators, abuses in the exercise of the right to disability pension, etc. The consequences of this were in Serbia 2000 to 2014. The effects of the action of the above factors have been markedly unfavourable on Serbia's pension system, and the last three decades have seen themselves in the following. The insurance and pensioners' relationship with each other has been drastically reduced. The number of insurance workers has been steadily reduced, while the number of pensioners has increased due to the rapid ageing of the population, favourable retirement criteria, solving problems in the functioning of the economy through the accelerated retirement of work force surpluses and so on. The relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners has been steadily dropping over the last few decades, with the decline reaching critical exchanges over the last twenty years. In 1990, there were 2.7 insurance companies per pensioner, in 2001 1.8 and in 2014 the relationship fell to 1.4 insurance workers per pensioner. The situation has been slightly improved in recent years since, according to RF PIO data in June 2018, 2.599,788 insurance and 1,712,587 pensioners, which means that 1.5 insurance comes to one pensioner. Nearly a quarter of Serbian citizens are pensioners, 24.6%. According to the value of this parameter, Serbia is in the lower half of the European countries, by 1.4% below the EU's average. Therefore, the data presented directly show the underlying cause of the problem of financing pensions, which is an increase in pensioners with insufficient contributions based on the contribution, due to the still low number of insurance workers who, by extracting contributions to PIO, finance pensions of current pensioners and problems in the collection of contributions. This is another reason why this government is taking a number of measures aimed at increasing employment on the one hand and a series of measures in the fight against the grey economy on the other hand. The positive results of these measures will directly reflect the mandatory pension and disability insurance system. The government's measures not only halted the decline in the number of insurance and pensioners' relations, but even improved, which we hope is just the beginning of a positive trend. The second consequence of the general crisis in the system is seen through significant growth in pension system costs, as well as their participation in Serbia's GDP. The participation of pension expenditure in GDP in 2012 was 13.2% with a tendency to increase, which means that over 13% of GDP is spent on pensions, which is too high a percentage for the country at this level of development. In order to halt the growth of pension expenditures in GDP, which, among other things, led to an unsustainable level of public expenditure, during the process of financial consolidation, this government has adopted a fiscal rule that this participation should be reduced to 11%, which is largely achieved today. Namely, the net pension expenditure in 2017 amounted to 497.85 billion dinars, which was 11.15% of gross domestic product. In 14 EU countries, as well as Switzerland, which is not an EU member, pensions in the gross domestic product are higher than in Serbia, but the level of development of these countries can bear it. If the cost of payment of one-off pensioners is also taken into account, the total cost of receiving pensioners was 11.35% of gross domestic product in 2017. In order for the participation of pension expenditure towards gross domestic product to be kept at a sustainable level, which is that it is not at the expense of the material position of pensioners, a large part of the solution, certainly lies in the accelerated development of the country, and this government is on the right track to realise it. The next consequence of the pension system crisis was the growth of expenditure faster than income growth, which has already been said to have created a deficit in financing regular pension payments and other PIO rights during the 1990s. The deficit was covered by direct donations from the budget, which was not enough in certain moments, so pension payments were delayed occasionally, leading to late pension payments. After that, pension expenditures in the period 2002-2009 increased at an average annual rate of not more than 20.4%. The main reason for this high cost growth is a significantly higher growth in profit and cost of life. Retirement parameters relative to their projected values, which meant that pensions were harmonised at a higher percentage than previously planned. In addition, as has already been said, the unfavourable ratio of pensioners and the number of insurance workers from year to year has directly affected the insufficient growth of incomes that have financed pension payments. For example, income from contributions and other regular revenues covered around 63% of the total expenditure of the Republic Fund for PIO in 2014 so that the budget grants for the deficit for all expenditure amounted to as much as 37% of the income, 5.7% of the gross domestic product in 2014. In 2014, urgent intervention was due to take place, as covering the pension deficits was a major pressure on the budget, with the risk of continuing the trend of the deficit increase, i.e. the budget grant. Among other things, this is also the reason for taking unpopular fiscal consolidation measures. The government has reached its goal within four years and has halted and reduced pension funding deficits. Data on the participation of grants from the budget to cover pension deficits in the gross domestic product show that this participation was 6.8% in 2012, 5.7% in 2014 to 3.6% in 2017. Of course, this has been influenced by a significant improvement in the collection of contributions and growth of gross domestic products, which means that all the measures taken have produced positive results. Citing the state of the pension system before the reform measures were taken, one of the characteristics was the irregular pension payment. The late payment of pensions in the former employee fund increased in the 1990s. Various measures have been taken to overcome late payments. For example, the payment of two pensions in electricity stamps and the like. In 2001, late retirement payments amounted to 1.5 monthly pensions. In the farm fund, the situation was even more unfavourable. The pension payment was about 20.5 pensions. The Single Action Fund is the only one in a good financial situation due to the favourable relationship between the number of insurance and the number of pensioners, resulting from economic movements, the growth of the number of insurance companies due to privatisation and the development of entrepreneurship and the low number of pensioners due to the poor development of self-employed activities in the past. In addition, due to the betrayal of the pension system and the unadjustment of the country's economic capabilities, it was also characteristic that the participation of disabled pensioners was unwarrantedly high. In Serbia, disabled pensioners accounted for more than 30% of the total number of pensioners in 2001. As you can see, life and the environment are constantly demanding the adoption of measures that lead to the improvement of the pension system, primarily through more realistic parameters. For example, an increase in the retirement age that could no longer be in line with the extension of the life span. Economic development and international trends, redefine the rights based on disability and focus on the re-activation of persons with reduced working capacity in co-operation with the labour market, the inclusion of new types of insurance, such as voluntary pension funds and the creation of a long-term system development strategy, which should ultimately lead to the achievement of long-term financial sustainability and the reliability of the pension system. Given the highlighted need for continued adjustment of the pension system, changes in the environment, we note that the proposal to amend and supplement the PIO Act that we are considering today is a continuation of the earlier reform of the system, which is why it is useful to meet the MPs previously made in this area. The phases of reform of the pension system and the adjustment of the pension system took place with variable circumstances in society, economy and country, and everything was aimed at creating conditions for the long-term sustainability of the system. It was implemented phasely by amending the rules adopted in this House in 2001, 2003, 2005, 2010 and 2014. In 2001, the reform of compulsory pension and disability insurance, then the only part of the pension system, began in 2001 by amending and supplementing the laws, which came into force in early 2002. Very important measures have been taken concerning the change in the mandatory insurance parameters. The age limit was then raised from 60 to 63 years for men, and for women from 55 to 58 years of age, as a result of changes in the height of this parameter have not been done for decades regardless of changing demographic, social and economic circumstances. The way pension adjustments were changed, until then pensions were adjusted according to the trend in average earnings, if the trend in earnings in the previous period was more than 5%. Since January 2002, quarterly pension harmonisation has been introduced, and the pension adjustment formula has been amended further by setting the percentage of the coordination on the basis of 50% of the profit movement and 50% of the cost of living in the previous quarter, so-called. Swiss formula. So, in addition to earning in determining the percentage of the alignment rate, life costs have been used since. The follow-up to the reform followed the adoption of a new PIO Act, which entered into force on 10 April 2003. This law significantly amends the structure of compulsory insurance. The definition of disability has changed. It is prescribed that the condition for obtaining the right to a disability pension is the existence of complete incompetence to work. This represents a significant tightening of the conditions in relation to the rules in question, under which the exercise of the right to a disability pension was sufficient to determine the inability to carry out the relevant job the insurance undertaking was engaged in. Rights have been abolished based on remaining work capacity, i.e. the right to receive compensation for part-time work and remuneration for less earnings at other relevant jobs, as well as the right to deploy to other relevant work has been abolished. The right to compensation on that basis has reserved only the users found. Instead, it is possible for the persons who had this right to make 50% of the pension if they lose their jobs. The right to this fee, in this group of faces, belongs to meeting the conditions for retirement. There's been a change in the way the pension is accounted for. A personal-point accounting system has been introduced, which is determined on the basis of the length of the internship and the amount of the contribution of each individual insurance and general point, which is equal to all persons who are entitled to pension within a certain period. An internship to be taken into account when calculating pensions has been extended. By the time the law was passed, the collection of pensions was made on the basis of data from the best 10 years of insurance staff. After the law was passed, the pension was determined on the basis of the overall completed internship, starting in 1970. The scope of compulsory insurance has been expanded, the obligation to pay contributions to all revenues made on the basis of the performance of an economic activity, which means that various contracts for which compensation, contracts for work, author's contracts, etc. are included. In this way, the basis for payment of contributions to PIO was strengthened, which had a positive effect on the increase in fund revenues. It also reduces the possibilities of avoiding payment of contributions, with the payment of contributions and, on this basis, has a positive effect on the pension of those persons by exercising their rights. Instead of being so-called. Prolonged insurance, the possibility of voluntary inclusion in insurance for all non-insurance persons is introduced and they are willing to pay contributions to the PIO. Changes in the scope of farmers' insurance during that period, before the law was passed, had an obligation to ensure all members of the agricultural household. The new law regulates that only the holder of the agricultural household, or at least one household member, is required to be provided, while the other members have the possibility of voluntary inclusion in insurance. The contribution rate for pension and disability insurance has also been changed. The aggregate contribution rate for pension and disability insurance was 32% by 1 May 2003. In order to reduce the tax burden on the economy, the rate was reduced to 20.6% between 1 May 2003 and 1 July 2004, while it was raised to 22% after that date. It is necessary to note that there is a difference in the basics on which the contribution was paid after 1 May 2003. So, the nominal reduction in the rate of contribution from 32% to 20.6% does not mean that the real reduction in the rate of contribution was really so much, or the decrease was less than could be concluded on the basis of the change in the nominal height of the rate. The main objective was to keep the PIO account and fiscal sustainability in addition to that reduction in the burden on the economy. The Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which entered into force on 1 September 2004, sets out in a unique way the financing of overall social security. In other words, this law lays down provisions governing the issue of accounting and collection of contributions to all three systems. Reform processes continued with the adoption of a set of laws in October 2005. The amendments to the Law on PIO, which began on 1 January 2006, amended certain mandatory insurance parameters, and the most important measures were then envisaged by the gradual tightening of the conditions for obtaining age pension rights through an increase in the age limit by half a year, between 2008 and 2011, for men from 63 to 65 years of age, and for women from 58 to 60 years of age. Accordingly, the age limit for obtaining family pension rights has been increased. The gradual transition between 2006 and 2009, to synchronise pensions four times a year according to the Swiss formula, to synchronise twice a year according to the cost of living alone. The introduction of early pension harmonisation on January 1st of the current year, if the average pension for the previous year is less than 60% of the amount of average earnings, without taxes and contributions in Serbia. The envisaged application of that standard by the end of 2008. The lowest level of pension has been established in ensuring employees and ensuring a level of 25% of the 2005 average earnings, which has been applied since 1 January 2006. After that, it was envisaged to coordinate the minimum pension, in the same way as other pensions, with the expected extraordinary alignment of the minimum pension on 1 January of the current year, if its amount is less than 20% of the average earnings in the previous year. This protection measure was applied until 2010. In addition, the state has been defined to address the problem of unpaid contributions to persons employed and registered for insurance from 1991 to 2003, who have not been paid a contribution for part or for the whole period. This was arranged by the Law on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance, for certain categories of insurance, i.e. employees, also brought in in mid-2005, who made it possible to pay contributions to that category of insurance companies, as well as to exercise pension and disability insurance rights. For the implementation of this law, no additional resources were necessary, for the reason that part of the budget grant was scheduled to be rerouted to this effect. The same package also included three laws from the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction which essentially affected the pension system. The adoption of two public debt laws of the Republic of Serbia allowed the establishment of regular pension payments in the insurance of employees and insurance of farmers. Public debt was paid to pensioners in the insurance of six-war employees and to agricultural pensioners in four wars. The structure of the pension system has been expanded by establishing a system of voluntary pension funds and pension plans, thus allowing for the allocation of additional pension funds to anyone who wishes to. The law governing this area has been applied since 1 April 2006. At this stage of the pension system reform, a reform of the pension administration was launched in order to improve labour efficiency, reduce administrative costs, and the law established the consolidation of three pension funds in one. The consolidation was conducted in two stages, first administrative and then financial consolidation. The Fund's consolidation was accompanied by a new organisational structure of the Fund, technological management of work processes, jobs, staff training and improving business procedures. The amended Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2011, continued to adapt the parameters of mandatory insurance to demographic change in the country's social and economic opportunities, which was primarily implemented through the tightening of the conditions for obtaining pension rights, i.e. 35 years of age and at least 40 years of life, to increase until 38 years of training, or 40 years of life in the period from 2011 to 2022 (that is, the gradual rise in age for the family pension period by three years and at least in the period from 2012 to 2017, the strengthening of conditions for pensioning insurance workers who are able to carry out their old jobs with an old age of 53, i.e. the need for long-term employment, i.e. the need to be able to keep up to work with the old age-old people in the old age-age period. The other changes were related to changes in the way pensions were adjusted, with pensions being prescribed from 1 April and 1 October of the current year only to the movement of consumer prices in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the previous six months, with pensions being adjusted in percentages representing the sum of percentages and growth, i.e. the decline of consumer prices in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the previous six months and the percentage representing half of the real growth rate of the gross domestic product in the previous calendar year. In addition, if the gross domestic product increases above 4% in the previous calendar year, it should be harmonised from 1 April of the current year in a percentage representing the sum of percentages of growth, i.e. the decline of consumer prices in Serbia's territory in the previous six months and the percentage that represents the difference between the real rate of gross domestic product in the previous calendar year. In 2014, the key reforms undertaken during those years were primarily aimed at strengthening the conditions for the exercise of pension rights and their adaptation to modified demographic circumstances, changing the way pensions are accounted for, organisational changes in the implementation of pension and disability insurance, as well as strengthening the structure of the pension system by introducing a voluntary pension fund system. However, regardless of the significant positive effects expressed through the slowdown of growth, then the decline of pension system deficits, as well as the increase of the average age of new pensioners, the measures taken in previous years were not sufficient to overcome the problem of the existence of deficits and the sustainable functioning of the system in the context of the socio-economic circumstances that were negative at the time and which reflected life and work and the material position of all Serbian citizens. In fact, the number of pensioners by 2014 continued to grow after 2014 and was disproportionately large in relation to the number of inhabitants, and the demographic structure deteriorated. The situation has been further contributed by the global economic crisis that has hit our country since 2008. One-off pension withdrawal of 10% in October 2008, in the wake of the economic crisis, has largely endangered the current results of the reform of this system, causing a significant increase in total expenditure on pension payments, and thus the growth of deficits, which has increased transfers to cover budget deficits. All of the above has affected the rejuvenation of the situation in compulsory pension and disability insurance, so a very high deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget and almost unsustainable regular financing of pension payments was found in 2014. For this reason, fiscal consolidation measures, whose component, due to high participation in public expenditure, was also a pension system, were taken. In fact, it was necessary to halt the growth of the deficits of this system and to reduce the withdrawal from the budget to finance pension payments. For these reasons, the government faced the inevitability of taking emergency measures, which it did by proposing a Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions were paid, which was adopted in October 2014, which reduced pensions in payment, began from November's pension. In order to protect pensioners' standards, pensions below 25,000 dinars were not covered by the reduction. Savings at the monthly level based on pension cuts amounted to about two billion dinars. A reduction in pension rates was carried out the following way. The pensioners whose pensions are determined in accordance with the Law of more than 25,000 dinars, and less than 40,000 dinars of pension will be paid in relation to which they are obtained by rejecting from the total amount of pensions obtained by multiplying the coefficients of 0.22, with the difference between the total pension height and 25,000 dinars. Pensioners, whose pensions were determined in accordance with the Law, greater than 40,000 dinars, pensions were paid in relation to which they were obtained by refusing from the total pension amount of the amount obtained by multiplying the coefficients of 0.22 by 15,000 and the ratio obtained by multiplying the coefficient of 0.25 with the difference between the total pension and 40,000 dinars. So, in this case, the government has shown social responsibility for protecting pensioners with the lowest pensions, so that this measure does not reduce the expenditure by 61% of pensioners. This measure was difficult and risky, but it was also necessary. The pensioners understood it the right way, thus showing that they were one of the most responsible parts of our society. That is why, given that fiscal consolidation measures have today achieved the objectives set and the country's development has been restarted. This government is particularly grateful to the pensioners for the burden they bear. Given the need to protect the pensioner's material position, which showed the first positive results in the country's economic progress and the improved state of the budget, the government proposed increasing pensions significantly earlier than originally planned a fiscal consolidation programme. According to this definition, pensions increased by 1.25% in December 2015 by 1.5% in December 2016 and 5% in December 2017. In addition, twice at the end of 2016 and at the end of 2017, 5,000 dinars were paid to all pensioners. Therefore, although the adoption of that law was necessary, the government also took measures to protect pensioners' standards during the fiscal consolidation period. In addition to the adopted Law on Temporary Arrangements and the way pensions were paid, the government continued reform measures, which has been made new amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. By amending the rules adopted in July 2014, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, the basic objective of the measures adopted was to reduce the inflow of new pensioners in order to reduce the deficits in the financing of the system and to establish conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, and the measures adopted were to gradually equalise the conditions for the age pension of women in terms of age with men, as a result of a gradual increase of two months per year to 65 years, with a minimum requirement of 15 years of insurance. With regard to the age limit, as conditions for the exercise of age pension rights, Serbia has been characterised by a rise in relatively short time compared to other countries in Europe. In fact, over a period of 10 years, the age limit has been raised by five years, making the pension system in Serbia one of the most dynamic in Europe. A large part of the process was implemented as a result of the early reform of the conditions for retirement in Serbia was mostly lower than the conditions for retirement in other European countries. It can be concluded that in terms of age, the pension system in Serbia has reached most European countries in a very short time, given that the life expectancy of the Serbian population is significantly lower than in all European countries. The introduction of temporary retirement rights with a permanent reduction in the amount of temporary retirement for each month of an earlier life prior to the completion of the general age limit of 65 years. Determination of additional conditions for reducing the age limit for obtaining age pension rights for insurance workers working at jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration, that at least two comas were completed three, two-thirds of their regular jobs compared to the total insurance period. Furthermore, new amendments to the Law on PIO adopted in December 2014 have established the way and dynamics of pension harmonisation in accordance with the rules laid down by the Budgetary System Act. The amendments to the regulation set out a fiscal rule that pensions will not be harmonised until pensions in GDP fall below 11%. As already said, this parameter was at 13.1 at that time in 2014 and as I have already pointed out, the set of measures gave its positive results so that the above all expectations and almost fully achieved earlier than expected, since pension expenditures in the past year were slightly above 11% of GDP. It should be stressed that this has been achieved regardless of three pension increases and two single-aid payments made to pensioners implemented in the meantime. As a result of the difficult fiscal consolidation measures positive results and the achievement of the basic objective, the financial stability of public finances, as well as the improved situation in terms of financing pension payments, real conditions have been created to continue to work towards improving the mandatory pension and disability insurance system. For this reason, amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act have also been made, which is the case here. It is important to note that in this case it is not a matter of restrictive character measures but of all measures, I repeat all measures, aimed at improving the position of pensioners, but also of administrative procedures and procedures that make this amendment unique and supplementation of the Law, because for the first time there is a set of changes and additions that are all positive. One, something that may be of the utmost interest to all pensioners, is proposed a provision of article 53. The draft law which provides for the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid or, popularly, the Law on the reduction of pensions ceases to apply by adopting this law and by adopting it in force. This means that October's pension, paid regularly in November, will be paid without a reduction. So, please pay attention, the level of October pension without a reduction will be equal to the pension from October 2014 before the entry into force of so-called. The reduction law increased by percentages of compliance from that month to today, and they stood at 1.25% and 1.5% and 5%. For example, the pension, which amounted to 50,000 dinars in October 2014, will amount to 53,954 dinars after the law was passed, which is about 13% growth compared to that pension. Besides, when it comes to pension coordination, Article 9. The bill sets out that the harmonisation of pensions until the fiscal sustainability of the pension system is achieved will be regulated in accordance with the rules governing the budget and the budgetary system, thereby practically extending the application of an existing standard prescribed by the way pensions have been coordinated since 2014. Although the cost of paying off net pensions has reached the target of 11% of the participation in GDP precautions, pensions will continue to be harmonised according to the rules governing the budget system. However, as the country's economy progresses, the time will come very soon for pension coordination to be restored in the manner and dynamics prescribed by the PIO Law. Although some pensioners' associations submit an initiative to ensure that future harmonisation is done according to the formula and dynamics set out in the Law on PIO, at this point it is more responsible and better to continue to be carefully planned on the one hand in line with the real opportunities of the country, and on the other hand that this increase is significantly greater than inflation itself and the price hike itself. We, as Government, will try to keep this increase in line with the country's economic opportunities, and at this point the country's economic potential and what are forecasts is that they will be more than expected and that our pensioners expect increases in the coming period as they were in 2017. In addition to ending pension cuts, another important measure is foreseen aimed at improving the standards of pensioners. The draft law lays down a legal basis that allows the government to pay the amount of money as an increase in pensions depending on economic developments and available space in the Republic of Serbia's budget, further finding that funds for these purposes cannot be more than 0.3% of GDP on an annual basis. At this point, that amount is slightly above one billion dinars a month. The funds for this purpose will be provided in the budget, and the exceptional amount of money will be paid from the Republic Fund for PIO in 2018. The government is proposing this paper in order to protect pensioners with the lowest incomes for this reason because this is the socio-economic government, or government that is socially responsible to its citizens in the event of particularly favourable economic results, the government will have this legal opportunity to especially protect its pensioners. In this way, the insurance system is preserved, as all pensions will be adjusted to the same percentage, and in particular by paying the cash amount as a pension increase protects pensioners' incomes with lower pensions. This is, among other things, proof that the government is taking care of the social situation of pensioners and that it is planned to improve their standards in different ways. The third importance of the amendments contained in the Bill's proposal refers to the change and method of calculating the amount of the temporary retirement pension for insurance undertakings who account for an increase in duration, the so-called "received internship", which are leaving for early retirement. A reduction in pension levels has been established by Article 8. It's a bill of law. A new member of the 70's is being introduced. in the basic text of the law. The proposed amendment provides for the so-called pens for these insurance companies to be counted against the reduced age limit for each specific insurance company with a well-fused internship, not compared to the general age limit, as will continue to be counted for all other categories of insurance undertakings. In this way, more favourable, and fairer, account is taken of the amount of the early retirement pension for these insurance companies, as the reduction of the age limit to which they are entitled under the provisions of the PIO Act is taken into account. This will also apply to pensioners who have already earned this right to early retirement. Therefore, that change refers only to the calculation of the amount of early retirement for this category of insurance and does not mean the elimination of so-called penals, but only a more favourable and fairer account. I point this out because of some different information and public concerns. Furthermore, one of the proposed changes refers to changes in the so-called benefits of the internship. Namely, it refers to the protection of the essence of the right, the reduction of the age limit, up to 50 years of life for insurance workers working on the maximum degree of increase in the 12-18 insurance rate and preventing possible abuses. For these insurance undertakings, the bill provides for a condition for achieving that right to lower the age limit by 50 years, that they have completed two-thirds of the insurance standings in jobs with a maximum degree of increase in the insurance rate, when 12 months of work on these transactions is calculated as 18 months of the insurance rate compared to the total insurance rate completed at jobs where the insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration. One of the proposed measures to improve the implementation of insurance by the Republic Fund for PIO is to reduce the number of temporary solutions in the exercise of pension rights and reduce the time and cost to obtain a final solution, i.e. in the change in the way in which the last year's insurance internships are accounted. It is proposed to Members 6. Proposal for a law to introduce a new Article 63 into the basic text of the PIO Act. In recent practice, it was possible to account only after the calendar year has expired after the Republic Statistics Institute published the average annual earnings in the Republic, which is why the Republic Fund for PIO had to bring temporary solutions to new pensions. The problem is being overcome by a new way of determining the annual personal coefficient for that year, so it is not waiting for the end of the calendar year. This change will significantly improve the effectiveness of the Fund's work and reduce administrative costs. In addition, the duration of temporary solutions for three years is also introduced, in the event of the lack of all necessary data for the final solution. This change, above all, provides greater legal certainty for pensioners. Furthermore, according to one of the provisions of the Bills, it ceases to be authorised by the Fund to make an emergency payment on behalf of unpaid contributions for pension-inhabited insurance by suspending one third of the pensions to the insurance companies themselves who are the bonds of payment of contributions for pension-inhabited insurance. This introduces order and demarcation of the competence of the institutions, as it is to control and collect social security contributions, according to the regulations, the competent tax administration, and the Fund is largely exempt from the additional burden of carrying out tasks for which it is not competent. According to the mandatory PIO system, the pension level is determined in accordance with the length and amount of the payment of the contribution, so the insurance undertaking in each particular case realises and benefits the rights in proportion to the periods of insurance for which the contributions are paid. In the part of the parent records, the harmonisation of the rules with the Law on the central register of compulsory social security is primarily carried out, as well as the definition of the basis for the download of data from other authorities, which is already in practice to a certain extent and functioning. In this way, the employer’s obligations with regard to the completion and delivery of different applications are significantly reduced. For example, the M4 and other forms are abolished, consisting of the total removal of 17 forms of the Republic Fund for PIO, and the deadlines for taking measures are respected in relation to the pension administration established by the government's strategic documents and are related to public administration reform. The bill also provides a legal basis for the adoption of a pension card in order to facilitate the use of benefits by users, but also to prove the very fact that it is a pensioner. One-time cash aid to Article 36. The draft law defines that funds of the fund can also be used to pay out financial assistance to pensioners and cash compensation when such assistance is needed by a large number of beneficiaries in the amount established by the Government, taking into account the balance sheet options of the Fund. The following period refers to the determination of the method of determining the annual personal coefficient for insurance undertakings which do not have established profit data in the home register. It's mostly military insurance, displaced persons and others. The proposed provision provides that for these insurance undertakings, instead of units or minimum bases for that year, they shall be subject to their average annual personal coefficient, as set out in Article 7. The bill, which refers to a member of the 66th law in force. In addition, this will refer to earlier users who can address the Fund in this respect by requesting to amend the solution in accordance with this provision within one year of the entry into force of this law. In addition to the above, this bill defines specific provisions more precisely, with the aim of overcoming practical problems – bank payments, blind person assistance purchases, precision of self-reliance insurance, founders, means of determining the insurance standings, precision of the termination of insurance for persons who are self-involved in insurance and the like. It is therefore noticeable that the draft law on the agenda contains a large number of significant changes aimed at improving the social status of pensioners and the right to insurance. Then, it creates a space for improving the process and processes related to the implementation of pension and disability insurance. It reduces the employer's obligations to communicate with the Republic PIO Fund, as well as other changes that should significantly improve the situation in this area. As has already been said, five phases of the 2001, 2003, 2005, 2010 and 2014. All five stages contained measures of restrictive character. However, regardless of the measures taken, the pension and disability insurance system continued to sink into the crisis and long-term financial unsustainability, as those reforms did not monitor the reform of the entire system until 2014. Lack of investment, drop in employment and slow economic growth would quickly melt the effects of reforming the pension and disability insurance system. The reform of the pension and disability insurance system without adequate country development cannot have long-term sustainable results. Given that the government has achieved extremely good economic results in reducing the country's overall debt, expressed in surplus, the budget has increased employment and addressed the issues of a number of problematic businesses, all of which are shown in higher GDP growth compared to the planned ones. In this environment, after a long time, we have a bill with no restrictive measures, but, on the contrary, all measures are aimed at improving the position of insurance and users, as well as increasing the efficiency of insurance implementation. This is a good sign that the country's economy, including the pension and disability insurance system, has gradually placed it on sound and real foundations. This was precisely the goal of all measures of the government, to create healthy and economic conditions and stable finance when it is possible to plan and implement the improvement of population standards, especially pensioners who have submitted the greatest sacrifice during the fiscal consolidation measure. This law is precisely the first signal that we have entered this phase of the accelerated development of the country. Thank you. I want you to support this bill in the voting day and thus contribute to a better standard of pensioners and the development of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42838	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42839	I'm not finished yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42840	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42841	Point 2. There are more points - Giving consent to the amendment and addition of the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for PIO. In order to ensure all the conditions, both normative and appropriate financial space for the implementation of the proposed suspension of the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, payment of the financial amount, and increases with pensions and other amendments contained in the draft Law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, it is necessary to adopt the rebalancing of the financial plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2018. The total revenue and receipts of the Fund, i.e. expenditure and expenditure, of this Decision amending and supplementing the Fund's financial plan for 2018, are set at 616.29 billion dinars, which is more than the amount foreseen by the Fund's 2018 financial plan for 708.13 million dinars. The funds for the implementation of the amendments and additions to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act are provided by the redistribution of funds under the initially planned amount. What is visible on the side of the income is the change in the financing structure of the Fund. As a result of the better collection of contributions to pension-inhabited insurance and other revenues, the amount of donations required from the expenditure financing budget has been reduced. The planned contributions to pension-inhabited insurance are up by 1.8%, i.e. 7.6 billion, respectively, compared to the initially planned amount, in line with the first seven months of the current year. The planned original income from contributions to pension-inhabited insurance is covered by 69.57% of planned expenditure and expenditure in 2018. The positive developments also show planned transfers from the budget, including grants for missing funds for regular pension payments and other rights. They are 178.23 billion dinars and are reduced compared to originally planned by 7.31 billion dinars. In order to better achieve income from contributions to PIO compared to originally planned payments to pension-inhabitation rights, a lower amount of grant from the budget from the division – Ministry of Finance is also needed. The proposed changes reduce the share of budget transfers in total revenues and revenues from 30.14% to 28.92%. We have already talked about this earlier in the framework of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, and we have cited problems in financing pensions due to deficits, and we have stated that it was necessary to transfer financial resources from the budget over a period of time. Almost 50% needed funding to cover pension expenditure in one period. The decline by around 29% is a significant shift that is directly reflected in the stabilisation of the situation in the republic's total budget. These positive results gave the government the necessary fiscal space, above all to abolish the previous law and to plan to pay the money with pensions for the lowest pensions users. This is very important because it shows that all the measures the government has taken in the fight against the grey economy have also begun to produce results. It is also expected that the following period will further improve the control and collection of social security contributions, which is within the competence of the tax administration, thus further stabilising the pension and disability insurance system, i.e. stabilising the business of the Republic Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund. As part of the expenditure, the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, the initially planned amount of pensions of 527 billion dinars, provided regular pension payments after their 5% increase, realised early this year, with a rise in the number of users up to 0.8%. However, due to the decline in the number of users in January-July of the current year, the estimate of the cost of net pensions is 523 billion dinars, or 99.2% of the original plan, so it gives us additional fiscal space. For pension payments after the expiry of the Interim Order Act, the start of pension payments for October 2018, and the payment, as I said, will be in November, in two months, for October and November, require additional funding totalling 4.64 billion dinars, i.e. 2,32 billion dinars per month. With these funds, the total funds for pension payments amount to 527.64 billion dinars and are higher than originally planned for 640 million dinars. This increase is expected because pensions will not be paid further in a reduced amount. All pensioners for October 2018 will receive the amount of pension that makes the pension for October in line with the applicable rules of 2014 so increased by plus 1.25%, by plus 1.5% and by 5%. Therefore, the key reason for the need for a rebalancing of the pension-inhabited fund's financial plan for 2018 is the abolition of the Interim Pensions Law, as a higher amount is needed for the payment of net pensions. But, I note, in the context of real revenue and in the context of the real budget. As part of the planned amount of expenditure for other PIO rights, compensation for other people's care and assistance, physical damage, disability benefits, funeral expenses and social standards of pensioners, the rebalance added funds to pay the money amount, as well as a pension increase of two billion dinars, one billion at a monthly level. You know that most pensioners, almost 80% of them, receive a pension of up to 34 thousand dinars. This government, which is socially responsible, plans to increase the total income of these pensioners by 5% compared to the incomes they had in September by paying the corresponding amount of money, as an increase with pension. In this way, existing pension relations will be maintained, which are the result of the principle of insurance according to which the pension level directly depends on the amount of earnings, i.e. the allocated contributions to pension-inhabited insurance, and the standard of these users will be improved. The proposed rebalancing also proposed funds of 708.13 billion dinars more than the amount foreseen by the Fund's 2018 financial plan. I must express my satisfaction by proposing to the National Assembly a regulation that will positively reflect the improvement of pensioners' standards. I am particularly pleased that this is the result of positive movements in the country's economy and I am sure that it is only the first in a number of measures that will directly reflect the improvement of the pensioner standards and the wider, overall population of our country. For this reason, I suggest that you support all the regulations that provide for it, including the one that has now been discussed. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships, the first and most significant reason for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships and the Consensus of National Law with Regulation No 1257/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013, on ship recycling and amending Regulation No 1013/2006 and Directive 2009/16, this Regulation has been adopted by the provisions of the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships and has been prescribed by the EU Member States to comply with their national legislation with the provisions of this Regulation. The problem of inadequate ship recycling over time has become a threat to the environment, prompting co-operation between the International Maritime Organisation, the International Labour Organisation and the Basel Convention Secretariat to identify appropriate solutions to the problem. After years of working together at a diplomatic conference held in Hong Kong in 2005, the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships was adopted. The Hong Kong Convention is the first international and legal instrument that in a comprehensive way regulates safe and environmentally acceptable ship recycling in order to ensure that ships when recycled after the end of their working century pose no unnecessary risk to human health, safety and the environment. The first adverse consequences of non-secure ship recycling were published in the 1980s, when a barrel of various industrial poisons, rejected on tropical beaches, and ships loaded with toxic waste in developing countries were discovered. The problem was first launched by a specialised UN agency, the International Maritime Organisation, which adopted a resolution and guidelines on ship recycling at the 23rd session of the Assembly. Further resolutions were adopted at the next meeting of the Assembly, i.e. amending and supplementing the ship recycling guidelines, a new legal-binding instrument for ship recycling. Resolutions 962 and 980 provided a good basis for the adoption of the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships, and Resolution 981 required the Committee for the Protection of the Marine Environment to make a legally binding instrument for ship recycling. The Convention shall apply to maritime vessels which have the right to wind up the flag of foreign Contracting Parties to this Convention, ships located on the territorial jurisdiction of the Parties to the Convention, as well as to ship recycling facilities operating under the jurisdiction of the Parties to the Convention. The Parties shall commit to technical assistance and cooperation relating to staff training, technology availability, equipment and the existence of joint programmes for research and development and other measures in order to make the Convention more effective. The Convention allows Contracting States to prescribe, in accordance with international law, the strictest or stricter measures to ensure safe and environmentally acceptable ship recycling in order to reduce the consequences of human health and the environment. With regard to inspection supervision, it shall, above all, refer to the examination of the document to be owned by the ship, and that international record of the list of hazardous materials or international testimony on the preparedness of recycling. The convention remained open for signature from 1 September 2009 until 31 August 2010, and then the countries had to approach or confirm it. The Convention will enter into force 24 months after it is confirmed or accessed by no less than 15 countries representing a combined commercial fleet of at least 40% of the total gross tonne of the world fleet and whose combined annual recycling volume represents at least 3% of the gross tonne of the combined commercial fleet of those countries. On January 19, 2018, six states became foreign contractors with a total tonage of 21.23% of the world fleet. Since the conditions for entry into force of the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships have not yet been met, it has not yet entered into force. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation will fully comply with domestic legislation with the provisions of the Hong Kong Convention and the EU Regulation. 1257/2013 on ship recycling. When it comes to confirming the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the delivery of natural gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia on 13 October 2012, we can say that, in order to ensure the long-term safe supply of the Republic of Serbia's market with natural gas, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia was drawn up on 13 October 2012. This Agreement defined that natural gas deliveries would take place between 2012 and 2021, in the range of up to five billion cubic metres annually. It also found that the natural gas delivered to the Republic of Serbia under this Agreement is intended for use on the market of the Republic of Serbia. As a signator of the Treaty establishing the Southeast European Energy Community, the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to bring its legislative framework into line with EU rules relating to the natural gas market. In order to meet the commitments made in December 2014, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Energy Act in line with the Third Energy Package. The provision of the Agreement concerning territorial restrictions, which is defined as delivering natural gas to the Republic of Serbia only for use on the market of the Republic of Serbia, is contrary to the provisions laid down by the European Energy Act. With this in mind, the Serbian side's initiative has been initiated to amend the Agreement, which the Russian side has adopted and a Protocol amending the Agreement that deletes the disputed provision has been drawn up. The Protocol was prescribed in Moscow on 19 December 2017. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, it is necessary to confirm the same. On 19 January 2018, the Embassy of the Russian Federation in Belgrade informed a note that the Russian side had completed the internal procedure necessary for the entry into force of the Protocol amending the Agreement and that, in accordance with Article 2 of this proposal, the Protocol has come into force since the date of receiving a feedback on the completion of the internal procedure in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to confirming the Agreement on Economic, Trade and Technical Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State of Qatar, we can say that the reason for confirming this Agreement stems from the intention of the signatories of the Agreement to institutionalise and develop the area of trade and economic co-operation between these two countries, as well as to intensify and diversify their trade on the principles of equality, mutual interest and international law. In its conclusion 05, issue 337-10448/2016-1 of 3 November 2016, the Government of the Republic of Serbia established the basis for the conclusion of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar, adopted the text of the Agreement and for the signing of it by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Rasim Ljajic. The agreement on economic, trade and technical co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar was signed in Doha on 7 November 2016, during an official visit by the then president of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, the State of Qatar. For the State of Qatar, the Agreement was signed by Minister of Economy and Trade Sheikh Ahmad bin Jasim Al Tani. The agreement created a legal basis for the establishment of a mixed commission for economic, trade and technical co-operation, i.e. to take appropriate activities in relation to their promotion, as well as to remove potential obstacles to its separation. The Law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State of Qatar is adopted in order to comply with the Strategy and Development Policy of the Republic of Serbia's Industry from 2011 to 2020 and the Annual Plan of the Government for 2017 and 2018. The provisions of this Agreement do not affect the process of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia, nor do there be EU rules to ensure the compliance of this Agreement. As regards the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on trade and economic co-operation, the reason for confirming this Agreement stems from the intention of the signatories of the agreement to institutionalise and develop an area of trade and economic co-operation between the two countries, as well as to intensify their trade on the principles of equality, common interest and international law. The government's conclusion of 12 October 2017 established the basis for the conclusion of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on trade and economic co-operation and adopted the text of the Agreement, while the Government's conclusion of 9 November 2017 authorised the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic to sign it. For the Republic of Argentina, the Agreement was signed by Foreign Minister Horhe Marcel Flori. The trade and economic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina was signed in Buenos Aires on 22 November 2017. By signing and entering into force of this Agreement, the prior agreements which regulated the area of trade and economic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina, the SFRY and Argentina Trade Agreement, signed in 1965 and the Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation between the SFRY and the Government of the Republic of Argentina signed in 1977. The agreement lays down a legal basis for the establishment of a mixed committee on economic co-operation, i.e. the taking of appropriate activities in relation to its promotion, as well as the removal of potential obstacles to its functioning. The law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina is adopted in order to bring the strategy and development policy of the Republic of Serbia industry from 2011 to 2020 and the Annual Plan of the Government for 2017. The adoption of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on trade and economic co-operation was planned by the Government's Annual Plan for 2018. The provisions of this agreement do not affect the process of Serbia's European integration, nor do there be EU rules to ensure compliance with this Agreement. When it comes to confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, it is three legislative proposals that confirm agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information with the Republic of Cyprus. It should be noted that this agreement further intensifys the bilateral co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in this area with a mutually defined way of exchanging and protecting classified information. Confirmation of these Agreements creates conditions for more effective co-operation between the State authorities of foreign Contracting Parties in the areas of internal affairs, justice, external affairs, defence and security services, as well as cooperation with economic operators from other States whose operations relate, in particular, to the areas of the dedicated industry and to the production and provision of services for the needs of the security sector. In addition, the confirmation of these agreements creates conditions of joint action against challenges, risks and threats related not only to the Republic of Serbia, but also presents a global phenomenon. All three Agreements shall also establish equivalent degrees of secrecy between the Contracting States, determine the central authorities for the exchange of classified information, access to classified information, arrange measures for the protection of classified information and their transfer, use of classified information and determine the procedure in the event of the loss, or other breach of the confidentiality of the data supplied. Given that there are already capacities in our country under existing secret data exchange registers, the same procedure that has been applied for the purpose of sharing classified information with NATO, the EU and the countries with which such agreements have already been concluded will be applied to the realisation of these agreements. When it comes to confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of the exchange of classified information, it is also three legislative proposals establishing agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information with Romania. It should be noted that these agreements continue to intensify the bilateral co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in this area with a mutually defined way of exchanging and protecting secret agreements. Confirmation of these agreements creates conditions for more effective co-operation between state bodies of contractors in the areas of internal affairs, justice, external affairs, defence and security services, as well as cooperation between economic operators in the territory of another country whose business primarily relates to the area of the dedicated industry, production and provision of services for the needs of the security sector. All other elements are the same or similar as the Republic of Cyprus. When it comes to confirming the Council of Europe Convention on Cinema Co-production, confirming this Convention of the Council of Europe on Cinema Co-production will create better conditions for the development of the creative industry sector in Serbia. At the same time, Serbia will become part of a modern film family in the European context and will position itself as a relevant and reliable partner in other countries. Confirmation of this Convention frees the Republic of Serbia from the need to conclude special bilateral co-production agreements with the Member States of the Council of Europe. It also enables the Republic of Serbia to be an active participant in the creation of appropriate efficient mechanisms, co-operation in the area of cinematography, i.e. technological development of new financial mechanisms and in audio-visual practice. Confirmation of the convention will also release part of the national budget in the audio-visual industry, raising the level of co-production in order to enable new models. The convention also provides for a correction of the percentage of the minimum national participation in order to call the audio-visual work co-production. In bilateral co-productions, this percentage has been reduced from 20 to 10, while in multi-lateral co-productions it is down from 10 to 5%, which will release some of the budget to support the audio-visual industry, as the minimum participation of 5% will direct many domestic producers to seek partners among the Eurimage members. The Council of Europe Film Fund. The revised convention also foresees an increase in percentages when it comes to majority participation in multilateral co-productions from 50 to 80%, or from 80 to 90% in bilateral co-productions. When it comes to the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Trade and Economic Co-operation, it was reached to institutionally regulate bilateral economic co-operation, primarily, and the Georgian side delivered in June 2011 a proposal for a trade and economic co-operation agreement that our party accepted in principle. The agreement was agreed on diplomatically. The proposed text of the agreement did not provide for a provision whereby the two countries would grant each other the treatment of the most privileged nation in trade, which is, in fact, the essence of this type of interstate, or not intergovernmental agreements. In this regard, our party has proposed that this provision be included in the proposed text of the agreement. However, the Georgian side did not consider the same acceptable with the reason that, as a member of the WTO, Georgia has one of the most liberal trade policies in the world, and that customs would not make sense. In fact, Georgia applies three types of import customs rates – zero, five and 12, with the most represented zero import duty rate. Production in Georgia is practically limited to several products – ore, wine, water and fruit, which are the main export products, almost everything else is imported. Confirming this agreement on trade and economic co-operation would institutionally regulate bilateral economic co-operation and create conditions for its improvement on long-term basis. A legal basis would be created for the establishment of a mixed commission to monitor trade-economic co-operation and to take appropriate activities related to its further promotion, as well as the removal of potential obstacles to its development. When it comes to the Law on the Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union, on the 26th. The World Postal Federation Congress, held between 20 September and 7 October 2016 in Istanbul, was also attended by a delegation from the Republic of Serbia, consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services. The Congress was attended by representatives of 192 member states of the World Postal Union with over 2,000 delegates, observers and guests. The World Post Federation is a specialized UN agency based in Bern, Switzerland. The World Postal Federation was founded in 1874 with a mission to establish and improve co-operation on a multilateral basis and to ensure the successful functioning of postal traffic on the one hand and to contribute to the higher objectives of international co-operation in the economic, social and cultural areas. The World Postal Federation has 192 members and 29 industrialised and 163 developing countries associated with the aim of providing international postal services with a unique and quality quality. The Principality of Serbia was one of the 22 signatories of the World Postal Federation's founding act, issued on 29 October 1874. The post office of Yugoslavia was one of the founders of the modern World Post Federation by participating in the constitution of the World Postal Union at the Brussels Congress in 1952. We note that then Yugoslavia was a member of the permanent bodies of the World Postal Union, its commissions and councils. The main objective to achieve by adopting the Law on Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union is to meet the international commitments arising from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Postal Union. The draft law confirming acts of the World Postal Federation was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 16 October 2017. At the disposal of the permanent bodies of the World Postal Union and of the Member States, the International Bureau of Directors-General shall also provide logistical support on these important issues for the International Postal Union. Participation in Congress is an international obligation of the Republic of Serbia as a member of the World Postal Union that stems from the Constitution and other binding acts of the World Postal Union to which our country has joined. The state delegation of the Republic of Serbia at Congress represented views in line with the instructions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and according to the platform for participation of the Republika Srpska delegation on 26. The World Postal Federation Congress has reached a similar conclusion by the Government since 29 September 2016. Starting with the view that the application of acts adopted at Congress should begin as soon as possible, as well as the practice so far that the deadline for entry into force of acts of no more than 15 months is realistic and acceptable, Congress decided to adopt an act adopted at Congress on 1 January 2018. Until that time, all Member States should carry out the ratification procedures of the acts adopted and transport them to national legislation in accordance with internal procedures. The ratification of acts of the World Postal Federation brought to congress, held in Bucharest in 2004 and four years later in Geneva and then in Doha, was carried out by the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the same. Namely, the last law to be passed is the Act of Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union. The constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the Act on the Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union is contained in Article 99(1) of point 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. In view of the forwards, the Ministry has been educated by the Working Group with the task of preparing a draft law on the validation of acts of the World Postal Union with the reason that it is supplied to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, as well as to inter-resorially align the text of the draft law with the opinions of the competent authorities and professional services of the Government. A working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, a public postal operator, or public company "Post-Serbia" Belgrade, held a series of meetings to discuss adopted acts and drafted the text of the draft law on the confirmation of acts adopted at that congress. Namely, the authorised representatives of the governments of the Member States at 26. They adopted these next acts to Congress. When it comes to confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Greece on cooperation in the field of tourism, this Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism is primarily proposed with a view to strengthening mutual relations in the field of tourism as well as contributing to tourism, improving overall bilateral relations. The entry into force of this Agreement shall contribute to the rounding of an institutional framework to facilitate and strengthen co-operation between individual tourism partners in order to improve overall bilateral economic relations. It is foreseen that the entry into force of this Agreement puts an off-force agreement from 18 June 1959, between the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Greece, concerning the establishment of a Greek-Yugoslavic Mixed Commission for Tourism Development. The bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece are based on the solid foundations of historical ties. Dynamic bilateral co-operation is developing, among other things, on the basis of Greek support for the European perspective of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. support for our country's EU accession. In the area of tourism, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece have developed long-standing co-operation. According to a statement by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, 33,221 tourists from the Republic of Greece who made 64,056 overnight stays were registered in January-July 2018. Greek tourists' participation, in foreign tourists' arrivals in the Republic of Serbia, is 3.59% for this period and 3.18% for the nights. The total number of arrivals by foreign tourists in the Republic of Serbia for the period January-July 2018 is 925.058, which is plus 13.9% compared to the same period in 2017 and 2.011.904 overnight stays, which is plus 14.4% compared to the same period in 2017. In 2017 67,395 Greek tourists were registered, which is 9.1% more than in 2016. 125,336 nights were achieved, i.e. 2.7% more than in 2016, and these data represent a particular challenge for the tourism industry of both countries in order to achieve better results, given existing potentials. The Agreement sets out specific forms of co-operation of interest and importance for improving bilateral tourism transport, promoting the co-operation of relevant entities and organisations operating in the field of tourism, as well as international tourism organisations. Contracting parties are scheduled to co-operate in the field of tourism marketing and promotion, tourism education, as well as exchanges of statistical and other data in the field of tourism and travel organisation for representatives of tourism agencies and media specialized in tourism. Cooperation in the fields of tourism, specialized services and interest is also foreseen, especially with regard to promotions of cultural, religious tourism, gastronomy, etc. It is foreseen that any Contracting Party may establish on the territory of the other Contracting Party an office, i.e. a representation that will not deal with commercial activities, as a private company. This agreement also provides for the establishment of a joint commission composed of the same number of representatives of each Contracting Party, which will aim to monitor the implementation of the agreement. It is also envisaged to support joint participation in tourism fairs and other events aimed at presenting the two countries' tourist offer. The agreement is drawn up in Serbian, Greek and English and enters into force on the day of the last written notice confirming that the contracting parties have implemented the internal state procedures necessary for their entry into force. The Nagoya Protocol Confirmation Act on the Access to Genetic Resources and Fair and Equal Distribution of the benefits arising from their use under the Convention on Biological Variety. At the 10th meeting of the Member States of the Convention on Biological Variety in October 2010 in Nagoya, Japan, after six years of negotiations, a Protocol on the Access to Genetic Resources, a fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use was adopted. The Republic of Serbia signed the Nagoya Strait on 26 September 2011 on the sidelines of the 66th UN General Assembly session. The European Union ratified the Nagoya Protocol 2014 and initiated the implementation of the adoption of Regulation 511/2014 on compliance measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources and fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use in the Union and the Commission implementing Regulation of 13 October 2015 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation No 511/2014, which are contained in the negotiating chapter 27 of the environment of Serbia as such is obliged to implement it. On the basis of the provisions of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources and fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use in the Convention on Biological Variety, each State shall have a sovereign right to its genetic resources and shall undertake to access national genetic resources, regulate the authorisation procedure, a previously justified procedure. Also, users and suppliers of genetic resources must reach an agreement. The mutually agreed conditions must be met under the conditions of access and the benefits of origin from these resources, while the states are obliged to establish a system of controls and monitoring of those activities, as well as to prescribe appropriate criminal measures. The Nagoya Protocol on genetic resources and fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use in its application shall define the following obligations of the Parties to this Protocol. Under one – the obligation to access genetic resources which prescribes that the Parties to the Protocol are obliged to establish a legislative framework for the access to genetic material, as well as the issue of licences allowing access and use of genetic material at minimum administrative costs. The obligation of fair and equal distribution of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources by which the parties to the Contracting Parties establish national measures to regulate the conditions for fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources. Under three – the obligation to join the compliance which obliges the parties to this Protocol to take measures to enable genetic resources collected in accordance with the previously reasoned consent to access to genetic resources and to establish mutually agreed sharing conditions. Confirmation of the protocol will provide an increase, improve access to quality genetic resource samples with high legal certainty and the lowest possible cost for research development projects on genetic resources. At the same time, over-exploitation of nature, i.e. the biodiversity of the Republic of Serbia, will be prevented, while some of the bankruptcy benefits of that material or immaterial will be returned to the country of origin of genetic resources. One of the direct benefits of adopting this law is the direct foreign investment needed for economic development, especially in countries lacking financial resources and technology. Such investments are expected to transfer the technology of best world practices in this area. When it comes to the law confirming the multilateral agreement of the countries of Southeast Europe on the implementation of the Convention on the Environmental Impact Process in the cross-border context, the Republic of Serbia is a party to the Convention on this assessment ratified on 7 November 2007. The Republic of Serbia is also a Party to the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, which it ratified by law on 5 May 2010. Also, the Republic of Serbia ratified the Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the ESPO Convention by decision in February 2016. Contracting States shall undertake, individually or jointly, to take all legal administrative or other measures arising from the Convention in relation to the proposed activities which may cause significant cross-border adverse effects. They establish procedures to assess environmental impacts that enable public participation and prepare documentation on environmental impact assessment. Given that ratification of the Convention and its Protocol created formal and legal assumptions for improving co-operation in the field of environmental impact assessment in the cross-border context, the delegation of the Republic of Serbia signed a multilateral agreement at the fourth meeting of the Parties to the Convention on the Implementation of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Cross-border context, which improved co-operation on cross-border impact of Contracting Parties when building a facility and carrying out activities that could lead to a significant threat to the environment, indicating that the provisions of the Convention do not relate to information which would be harmful to industrial, commercial sustainability or national security. It is particularly important to stress that the Republic of Serbia was also initiator in 2003 and 2004 of the agreement in question. The first two working meetings were held first in Belgrade, primarily due to the diversity of the procedures of the surrounding countries and the application of an environmental impact assessment and the necessity to establish a single procedure that will allow our country to carry out an impact assessment procedure against all countries in the environment in the same way, and in accordance with domestic legislation and international practice. This Agreement lays down the obligations of the Parties to take all necessary legal, administrative and other measures in order to implement the provisions of the Convention, as well as the obligation to adopt criteria to identify the adverse cross-border impact and mode of action in the process of applying certain strategic, planning and development documents, thus enabling preventive action in order to improve the quality of environmental protection from the negative impact that can result from the implementation of complete projects from neighbouring countries. When it comes to confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on inter-drumatic traffic, our country's relations with the Republic of Azerbaijan in the area of road traffic and transport were not regulated. Freight transport was carried out in an annual-level permit regime. For 2018, 100 bilateral-transit licences were exchanged. The Azerbaijani side has initiated a bilateral agreement on road transport by delivering its version of the draft agreement. At a session held in May 2018, the government confirmed the basis for the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on international road transport, adopted the text of the agreement and authorised Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Transport and Infrastructure to sign the agreement on behalf of the Government. The signing of this agreement was carried out when meeting at the highest state level in Baku, 21 May 2018. On behalf of the government, the agreement was signed by Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and for the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan was signed by Ramin Guluzade, Minister of Transport, Communications and High Technology. The conclusion of this agreement provides the right framework for improving bilateral, trade and economic co-operation. This Agreement contains provisions which are standard and common for this type of agreement and which are in line with the definitions and solutions of our national legislation, bilateral agreements that we have concluded with other countries and regulations of the International Transport Forum, whose member is the Republic of Azerbaijan. When it comes to the Law on Confirmation of the Social Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the NRC, in the context of the overall intensive co-operation between the People's Republic of China and our country, which is seen in the historical development of overall relations, and in particular economic relations, the need to regulate social security areas has been demonstrated. Namely, the area is not regulated by an international agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the NKK. In view of the current intensive economic co-operation and the fluctuation of labour between the two countries, it has been particularly assessed as mutually useful to approach negotiations in order to conclude an agreement in this area. The future agreement will ensure better protection of rights and social security for the security of this country and further facilitate trade and business co-operation and the flow of people between the two countries. To that end, the representatives of the two countries first signed a letter in 2015 on the intention of starting negotiations, and then in 2016 accession to the negotiations in order to conclude a social security agreement. After a round of negotiations in 2017, the text of the Social Security Agreement was agreed and initialled between our Government and the Government of the NRA. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 8 June 2018. Negotiations to conclude an administrative agreement to ensure the smooth application of this Agreement are in store for the next period. This agreement regulates and exercise of PIO rights, as well as unemployment rights, but due to legal and administrative restrictions in the NRC regulations, the agreement does not, for the time being, contain provisions on the collection of insurance periods completed in both Contracting States for the exercise of pension rights, as well as health insurance provisions. As soon as the necessary conditions are created, the completion of this Agreement will be joined. The agreement is based on the principles and experiences of our country in the area of social security, and the agreement also provides for the application of this agreement. When it comes to confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of France on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, it is also in the case of the previous two three legislative proposals confirming the exchange and mutual protection of classified information with the Republic of France. It should be noted that this agreement continues to intensify our country's bilateral co-operation with France in this area, with a mutually defined way of exchanging and protecting classified information. Also, as is the case with the Law on Confirmation of the Law on Securitisation and Exchange of Secret Information with Romania and the Republic of Cyprus, we will continue to work and to contribute first and foremost to the development of not only co-operation in this area but also bilateral co-operation in other areas, first and foremost in the areas of the dedicated industry, production and provision of services for the needs of the security sector. When it comes to confirming the decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia, No 1/2018 on the amendment of Protocol B, with the free trade agreement between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia on the definition of concepts, products originating in and methods of administrative co-operation, this agreement between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia was drawn up in Geneva on 17 December 2009, and entered into force on 1 October 2010. It is published in “The Official Messenger. ” The main objectives of the free trade agreement between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia are, among other things, the liberalisation of trade in goods, in line with the investment opportunities between the parties to the signatories and the creation of an environment that favours improving trade in services, facilitating trade among themselves, contributing to coherent development and increasing world trade. Article 32 of the Agreement provides for the establishment of a mixed committee between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia to monitor and assess the application of this Agreement, to monitor the possibility of further removing barriers to trade, to control further development of the Agreement and to consider issues that may further affect its implementation. The Joint Committee shall consider all relevant issues arising from this Agreement and shall take decisions in the case of the envisaged agreements. These decisions are binding on all foreign Contracting Parties. At the third meeting of the EFTA Serbian Mixed Committee held on 19 June 2018 in Geneva, the following decisions were adopted: Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia No 1/2018 amending Protocol B, on free trade between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia, on the definition of concepts, originating products and methods of administrative co-operation. The government adopted the text of this decision, adopted at the Third Meeting of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia on 19 June, in its conclusion 05, 337-4513/2018 of 17 May this year. The decision was made in order to comply with the obligations set out in the Regional Convention on pan-European, Mediterranean preferential rules of origin between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia in the part of the rules of origin of goods. The Annex to that Decision provides, inter alia, that unless the conditions laid down in Article 3(5) are met. Annex 1 to the Convention requires that diagonal communication may be applied between the Contracting Parties to the Convention, whether or not the Convention is applicable to them. The aim of the Convention is to replace the Protocol of origin which is in force between the countries of the pan-European Mediterranean zone by a single legal act. For the Republic of Serbia, this means the obligation to amend all free trade agreements related to the Stabilisation and Association Process in connection with the Convention as it implies amendments to the CEFTA Stabilisation and Association Agreement 2007, the Free Trade Agreement with the Republic of Turkey and the FTA Free Trade Agreement. By decision of the EFTA and Republika Srpska Joint Committee No 1/2018 and by confirming it, it will fully fulfil the obligations of replacing the Protocol of Origin with all the countries signatories of the PEM Convention with which Serbia concluded a free trade agreement. By decision of the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia Joint Committee No 2/1018 and amending Annex 4, the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia on Trade Facilitation, the government adopted the text of this decision, which was adopted at the third meeting of the EFTA and the Republic of Serbia on 19 June, in its conclusion of 7 June. The revised annex 4 contains new provisions defining the terms of active and passive processing, temporary imports, criminal provisions, as well as the requirement for the verification of documents. The amendment of this annex was also arranged to bring the Agreement on the Facilitation of the World Trade Organisation, which entered into force in 2017. Also, more detailed provisions on simplifications of international trade procedures, which are particularly highlighted in terms of reduction and simplification of import-export transit documents, have been detailed. Use of efficient trade procedures, as well as the aim of reducing costs and inappropriate delays in trade, based on international standards, of applying procedures providing for prior electronic delivery and processing of information before the arrival of goods, in order to speed up its customs duties, release of goods before the fulfilment of all conditions, provided that the importer provides sufficient guarantees, the possibility of electronic payment of taxes, taxes, fees, which are charged by customs and other border authorities, treatment of perishable goods. The implementation of this Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia No 1/2018 amending Protocol B to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia, in the definition of the concept of being produced with the origins and methods of administrative co-operation, does not create new financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia. The implementation of the EFTA State Mixed Committee Decision and the Republic of Serbia No 2/2018 amending Annex 4 of the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia on Trade Facilitation, does not create new financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia. As regards the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the mutual abolition of visas for common passports, this Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the mutual abolition of visas for common passports has been concluded in order to further improve the political relations between the two countries and to improve co-operation in economic, cultural and scientific and other areas of mutual interest, the importance and to continue the process of visa liberalisation by concluding the two countries' visa waivers on diplomatic and official passports since 2 December 2015. The agreement with the government of the Kyrgyz Republic is in line with the provisions of the type-approvals of these species. The agreement is reciprocal and excludes the holders of ordinary passports of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. ordinary passports of the Kyrgyz Republic from obtaining a visa for entry, exit and crossing across the territory, as well as for staying on the territory of the State of the other Contracting Party for a period of 90 days, within a period of six months, counting from the date of first entry. The effects of this Agreement are expected to contribute to the further development of political, economic, cultural, sports, security and other forms of co-operation with the Kyrgyz Republic by effectiveing this Agreement on the abolition of mutual visas on ordinary passports between the Kyrgyz Republic and the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the Law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the Area of Tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Agreement on this co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania was proposed primarily with the aim of strengthening mutual bilateral relations in tourism. It confirms the two countries' readiness to establish co-operation in the field of tourism and advanced relations in the areas of economy and culture. In creating conditions for further growth, it also contributes to the rounding of an institutional framework to facilitate and strengthen co-operation between individual tourism partners in order to improve overall bilateral and economic relations. Bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania, in the area of tourism, have not reached the expected level. Despite available tourism opportunities and potentials, official statistics do not follow tourism. Arrivals and departures, overnight stays of foreign tourists by countries from which they come, especially for tourists from the Republic of Albania, are already covered by the category – other European countries. For this reason, no data are available for the number of arrivals and overnight stays of tourists from the Republic of Albania, as well as for their contribution to foreign exchange income from tourism. Also lacking is an organised approach, performance and promotion of our tourist offers for potential tourists from Albania. Serbia's tourism organisation, responsible for promoting our country's tourism abroad, does not perform at tourism fairs in Albania. In improving co-operation, during that period, it would contribute to the creation of specific programmes tailored to the demand of tourists from the Republic of Albania. The Agreement sets out specific forms of co-operation of interest and importance for improving bilateral tourism transport, promoting co-operation between relevant entities and organisations operating in the field of tourism, as well as international tourism organisations. The exchange of statistical and other data in the field of tourism is foreseen. It is also envisaged to support joint participation in tourism fairs and other events aimed at presenting the country's tourist offer. The agreement provides for exchanges of visits between experts and media representatives specialising in tourism. Under the Agreement, special attention is paid to co-operation and the objective of simplifying border and other formalities, in order to exchange tourism. The agreement in the area of co-operation and tourism between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, which has been in force since 28 December 2005, is scheduled for the entry into force of this agreement. The agreement is drawn up in Serbian, Albanian and English and enters into force on the day of the last written notice confirming that the parties have implemented internal state procedures necessary for their entry into force. When it comes to confirming Protocol 1 of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey and Protocol 2 on trade and services of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey. The basic Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey was concluded on 1 June 2009, and began to apply on 1 September 2010. In accordance with the SST of 1 January 2015, trade in industrial products between them takes place without customs collection. The liberalisation of trade in agricultural products covered only products of plant origin and took place within quantitative quotas with a preferential rate of customs duty. MFN customs duties shall apply above trade in agricultural products which are not covered by quotas. The SST provisions provide that the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey will examine the possibility of approving mutual concessions in trade in agricultural products, i.e. in its efforts to gradually develop and expand international co-operation, in particular in the context of European integration, to co-operate with a view to achieving progressive liberalisation and the mutual opening of their markets for trade in services, taking into account the provisions of the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation. As a result of the 2016 and 2017 negotiations with the Turkish side, Protocol 1 and Protocol 3 on trade in services with the list of special obligations was concluded on 30 January 2018. The objective of amending the existing Protocol 1 to the Agreement is to increase trade liberalisation of agricultural food products, enabling the Serbian side to increase exports to the Turkish market under increased preferential quotas with further reductions, i.e. the elimination of customs duties for certain agricultural products within them. The Serbian side has ensured an increase in existing quotas. For imports into the Republic of Turkey with a zero preferential rate of duty for the following agricultural products: peas from 350 to 700 tonnes, beans and boranium from 300 to 600 tonnes, corn sugar from 1,000 to 2,000 tonnes, dried plums from 200 to 400 tonnes, as well as the opening of new quotas with a zero preferential rate of duty for the following products: 5,000 tonnes of June meat, 25,000 tonnes of sunflower raw oil, 10,000 of that sunflower refined oil, 15. 1,000 of these sunflower seeds, 5,000 of them soybeans in grain, 500 tons of preparations used for animal nutrition, 500 tons of food for dogs and cats and 500 tons of mantium. On the other hand, the Turkish side will receive an increase in existing quotas for imports into the Republic of Serbia with a preferential rate of customs duty for the following agricultural products: tomatoes from 1,500 to 3,500 tonnes, fresh peppers from 200 to 600 tonnes, grapes from 400 to 1,000 tonnes, olive oil from 750 to 2,000, and sugar products from 1,000 to 3,000 tonnes. Chocolate and other food products containing cocoa from 750 to 2,500 tonnes. Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other pastry products containing cocoa or with no cocoa added from 1,000 to 3,500 tonnes, as well as the opening of new quotas for imports of Turkish blue eggplants to 500 tonnes, pumpkins and pumpkins of 2,000 tonnes, of table grapes 750 tonnes, strawberries 500 tonnes, pomegranate 1,500 tonnes, preserved olives 750 tonnes, fruit juices, other than apples, 500 tonnes, yeast 500 tonnes, various 250 tonnes, tobacco-type ‘Orient’ 500 tonnes. Protocol 3 on the liberalisation of trade in services has achieved progressive liberalisation, i.e. the opening of the service market to one another, and thus extended bilateral economic co-operation. The liberalisation includes a large number of services, particularly the apostrophe of the telecommunications sector, finance, road traffic, audio-visual services, film and TV co-productions and electronic trade. We can expect this protocol to create conditions for other numerous services to come into importance and affect the balancing of our mutual exchange. The liberalisation of services is closely linked to the creation of suitable conditions for investment, as it contains the liberalisation of investments through the so-called so-called investment. third way of providing services. Protocol 3 on the liberalisation of trade in services containing clear rules of play and a list of specific obligations, by sectors and subsectors of services, allows transparency, predictability and security of the achieved level of liberalisation, which is very important for businesses, and especially investors. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Tunisia on co-operation in the field of defence, you are presented with a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on defence co-operation, signed in Tunisia on 16 May 2017. The entry into force of that Agreement lays down a legal basis for the co-operation of the governments of the two States and their authorised authorities, i.e. defence ministries concerning matters from the military area for which the parties were interested. The Agreement shall include the objectives, areas of co-operation, provisions and the identification of authorities responsible for their implementation, as well as the power to conclude a contract at the level of the Ministry of Defence, or those which, within the meaning of the Law on the conclusion of international contracts, are not considered to be international contracts. The Agreement also contains provisions on the establishment of a mixed military committee and its competence, as well as provisions on the possibility of establishing subcommittees for different aspects of co-operation. The financial aspects of co-operation in the area of defence are based on independent cost-covering in relation to activities implemented in accordance with the Reciprocation Agreement, allowing the parties to agree differently on each specific activity. The Agreement shall contain provisions on the status of a representative of a State while staying on the territory of another State of the Contracting Party, i.e. on the establishment of jurisdiction in the event of enforcement of criminal offences, as well as general provisions on compensation for damages. It is also agreed to conclude an agreement indefinitely on the possibilities of their change at any time and mutual agreement. The possibility of revoking the Agreement, as well as the way it enters into force, is foreseen. I stress that in order to establish co-operation with the Republic of Tunisia, it is primarily necessary to establish the main framework of co-operation, as well as to formalise the adoption of a proposed law on the validation of a bilateral intergovernmental agreement. For these reasons, and in order to further improve bilateral military co-operation with the Republic of Tunisia, I propose that the National Assembly vote a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in co-operation in the area of defence. Thank you. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42842	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42843	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, respected colleagues from the government and other ministries, is on the agenda of amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted here in parliament a year ago and where conditions were then created to increase the relevance of higher education, and also a better link between economy and society in general, obtaining the functional skills of students and increasing employability and improving quality control in higher education. There were plenty of reasons to change and supplement now to allow some of the new things to be resolved that occurred in the meantime, and to allow students who were studying according to the old programme before Bologna to complete their studies, because we are talking about a relatively small number that came to an end. Although two years ago we realized that it was already inappropriate, the Ministry and the Education Committee agreed that it was one year and pedagogical and desirable, so it was one of the basics of this story. It was also important to link the Law on Higher Education with the National Qualifications Framework Act, which was adopted in the Assembly the last time I was here with you. It is the vertical connection and what is the connection of learning throughout life, from high school and beyond, and those competences that students and through dual education achieve in three years, the obligation to learn, that is, work for two years and acquire these competences, with the passing of professional graduation and relationships with the university. Article 2 also considers that, as in the Law on Education, when it was passed, a more binding story aimed at avoiding conflict of interest in the appointment of executives at higher schools and universities, as well as rectors. So it expands the code of academic integrity with this new piece. Article 3 also provides that emergency surveillance can be done when it comes to the accreditation committee, not only in those regular cycles, because it has been shown in practice that someone is missing material, i.e. without a professor's staff, but that there is no space left, so that this extraordinary surveillance must be introduced. It is also very important that the link to what was adopted in the law on a shorter study programme is more connected together with secondary education, the possibility of continuing this type of study. We also had a problem with the mobility of students and the transfer of their points, so it is very important that this international mobility also regulates this issue. Article 6 The draft of this law is added by a member who, in my opinion, is very important, which is that the University of Belgrade is declared to be a higher school institution of national importance for 210 years. There's a reason why it seems. Secondly, we have already declared three institutes in Serbia of national importance, one of which is part of Belgrade University. This does not encourage any new funds or give any privilege, but simply marks what is important to this university and opens the door for other universities, with national importance being a very important category due to international studies in Belgrade. By the way, Belgrade University is the largest and most significant, according to all international lists, with more than 100,000 students, over 5,420 professors, over 3,250 co-workers in the course, 37 colleges are composed of 11 scientific institutes. Belgrade University is the founder of many universities in the environment, both Skopje and Sarajevo, Pristina and many others. In Article 7. The law lays down the obligation to form an employer’s council, since one provision of the previous law remains as if it were not important to establish or can be established. Now we're really going to go to that she's needed, just for the sake of a relationship between economy and higher education. It was also necessary to introduce a secret vote for the selection of business bodies, and we also have recommendations from the Anti-Corruption Agency. The form of the manager was introduced to the university, but when we set up a new way of organising higher vocational schools through the Academy of Professionals we want to reduce administration and save a lot of costs, and that even when we do, they are more relevant to the university when it comes to the quality of teaching and calling, and on the other hand to be related to the economy of those who are economically oriented, except pedagogical and health. So also here, when high vocational schools are networked into one continent, and there are minimums of two to five, it takes the function of a manager who will also assist in this financial part of the academy management as a new form. Article 9, it was very important to settle the question of the lecturer. Just to remind you, that the abolition of the Republic Institute for the International Scientific Cultural, Technical and Educational Co-operation in 2001 left this issue open. So, the lecturers were almost lost in us by some important countries, because they didn't know whose jurisdiction it was. So, the foreign ministry, education, science, even culture, about it has been auctioned multiple times, it's been driven by the urge to have some kind of agreement, where reciprocity has been the only principle so far. We have come to the point that by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, many of the countries that have come out of it have started to apply for their language, and appear equally, Croatian, Bosnian and all others. In order for us to survive in the work of those countries, universities, where we are traditionally interested, I think it was very important that we solve the question of the lecturer. In the last minute, we solved the question of the lecturer in Rome, without this law yet, asking for money from the budget reserve, looking for the possibility to even budget something that would otherwise be a big problem. I think we have stabilised the question of lecturers in Greece, lecturers in reciprocity with Croatians, Slovenia, and many other countries. This is a very, very important question, first of all for the foundations of our culture, and also for traditions, because somewhere we have lecturers for decades. So, I think we've settled this issue with this act. The draft law also required the regulation of the right to use foreign language in study programmes and to continue and defend dissertation. We also had this member, who I initially explained, means, that it extends a year in basic studies and doctoral studies and that budgets can be used not for four, but for five years, because by reducing that quota to 48 points that students have, it's missing that year, and simply, it's always auctioned. It was very important to know for ourselves, to link this law to the National Qualifications Framework Act, because it is under way that an independent agency will take over the role of the ENIK/Narih Centres. And that's something that was also foreseen. Management bodies. First of all, we think of the advice, they are very flexible by passing a new law, and many have run to end their mandates, to form different mandates. This is what we wanted to arrange for the uniformity of the way in all the higher education institutions. We've really had one long, marathon, I wouldn't say slow, but interpretations, doctors who've doctored before Bologna, but they've been respected twice by doctoral dissertation, and they're people lecturers at many universities. In the third audit, accredited by the former body of the Accreditation Commission, a number of these people have been challenged, and not a small number. There was a great threat to the state's lawsuit, I'm not talking about those PhDs that are never respected, they can be respected. Since it's the Ministry's responsibility to check it out, it happened that we checked state and private colleges and came to the conclusion that the principle that the KAP took, which is until the moment they issued, did not apply to Bologna for doctoral studies, because it was thought that whoever had master's post-authorism had the right to doctoral. So, many state and private colleges, they didn't do it, the KAP analyzed only 20 universities and set that kind of ban, and it was disputed, I guess once and obtained the right and everything. Since we've been doing this for almost a year, we thought it was necessary to put it here and this has been given the consent of the National Council for Higher Education and the Government of Serbia. These are the other members of the technical nature. Of course, we have another law, in the jargon they call it a small law on professions of interest for the Republic of Serbia, so that the legal definition of activity or a set of educational activities where access and exercise, i.e. the way in which action is carried out on the basis of legal, sublegal and other acts, is brought on the basis of legal powers, is directly and indirectly conditioned to possess appropriate educational qualifications, as well as a special activity where a set of activities dealing with members of professional organisations with a professional name. In other words, it's a profession that regulates the law, but also other regulations, based on this law. There is a particular, specific education, professional and professional, both for lawyers, judges, perpetrators, public notebooks, teachers, doctors of medicine, doctors of dental medicine, architects etc. This law needs to be passed, because it is intended to settle the issue, the profession can be very helpful, because we have very vague situations in practice that are defined, let's say, that a certain law enforcement needs a law school, but does not say what level of study and what degrees of study are. This requires a legal basis for the minimum competence in formal education to be prescribed, so-called. A small law on professions, but that people who have been discriminated against and perform these functions can be introduced into the system. These are our citizens, who have mainly completed studies abroad, who have passed the procedure, nosetrists of documents through the Ennik/Narik Centre, who will later work on the Qualifications Agency, and gain the required number of these cases, or the required number of areas that they must have in order to perform some work. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42844	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has a finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Sinisa Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42845	Thank you very much. Point 10 is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Additional Protocol 5 to the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe and the Decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement. The objectives of the law are to remove barriers to trade between the CEFTA sides. Strengthening economic relations and mutual understanding of the CEFTA parties, facilitating trade between CEFTA countries, facilitating preferential treatment of products that promote trade within the CEFTA agreement, differentiating trade in goods and encouraging investment, promoting the development of cross-border production, introducing full cumulation of origin of goods within the CEFTA region and abolishing the ban on return and exempting from customs duty in order to simplify existing procedures, increasing competitiveness and transparency in facilitating mutual trade within the CEFTA region. The key solutions to Additional Protocol 5 are to simplify customs controls and to reduce formalities. Reduction of the number of controls carried out based on risk management and analysis. Equivalence of the customs documentation requirement. The exchange of data to be carried out by electronic means and other inspection bodies are involved in the exchange of data in addition to customs. The key solutions to CEFTA Decision No 3/15 are: the introduction of a full communication of the origin of goods within CEFTA countries, which will allow for a greater fragmentation of the production process than in the case of bilateral and diagonal communication of the origin of goods. The projected possibility of expanding the area of full communication to other CEFTA trading partners, i.e. the EU, the EFTA States and Turkey. In the bilateral trade between the CEFTA parties, a ban on return or exemption from customs duty for all products that will simplify the existing procedures, contribute to competitiveness and facilitate trade within the CEFTA region, and all CEFTA parties agreed on a common date of application of this decision to be on 1 July 2019. On point 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes, I would like to inform that a contract was signed in Belgrade on 16 April 2018 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income tax. The conclusion of the Treaty is a significant contribution to the improvement of bilateral, economic and financial co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of San Marino, as it eliminates the problem of double taxation of natural and legal persons, residents of the two states. The contract provides common criteria for determining the right to tax certain categories of income, i.e. profits. In particular, we point out that the contract stimulates the investment of the capital of residents of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of San Marino and residents of the Republic of San Marino in the Republic of Serbia. The Treaty provides for the co-operation of the tax administrations of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of San Marino, with a view to more effective application of the contract and prevention of tax evasion by their residents. In view of the above, we can conclude that the conclusion of the contract provides a legal precondition for the more efficient privatisation and competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia's company in the Republic of San Marino, i.e. the Republic of San Marino's enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, which is a significant contribution to improving bilateral and financial co-operation. In particular, we point out that the contract represents a prerequisite for significant investments by investors from San Marino in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the creation of conditions for their participation in the privatisation process, but also for the use of appropriate financial instruments to promote higher forms of bilateral economic co-operation. The two parties agreed to take the necessary measures to ensure that the contract was confirmed as soon as possible, i.e. the entry into force as well as the start of application. The start of the contract is expected from 1 January 2019, following confirmation in parliaments by both parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42846	Thank you, Minister Mali. We're going back to work. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42847	Thank you. I didn't think I'd be waiting for anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very sad situation in parliament. It is repeated from session to session. She is saddened that the ruling majority is less and less showing a sense of freedom and democracy. In times of communism, many of us have sacrificed ourselves for democracy, freedom. It's not freedom from outside enemies, it's internal freedom that's much more important and much more fundamental. What the ruling majority shows doesn't lead to anything good. There are a lot of MPs in the ruling majority who are older than me. None of them have pedicures at the time of the communist dictatorship, that he was at all interested in democracy and was fighting for that democracy. What you did to us like this doesn't make any sense today. Minister Djordjevic spoke for two full hours. All this has to be answered by Minister Djordjevic, and we can't. We were supposed to go dot-by-point, so he could answer thoroughly. I've got 20 minutes to talk, and then I've got a 27-minute parliamentary group. It's not possible. We must therefore choose what we consider to be the most important or most important, but it is not good for Serbia's future. The National Assembly must be the Supreme Legislative Body, whose effectiveness is measured how many government legal projects will refuse, not adopt an emergency procedure, to adopt without real debate, by simply raising hands to the bell, and many who voted do not even know why they voted. It's not democracy. That's not what they die for. There are those of us who were willing to die fighting for democracy, and we never dreamed that one day she would look like this. Don't do this anymore. The debate on each item of the agenda must be special unless the business conditions are met. Of course, and the minimum to which you reduce our debate is not a chance for us to take advantage. I'm only going to talk in part about two laws, because I don't have a chance anymore. First, it was not at all necessary to pass the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions were paid. They weren't allowed to cut pensions, but we didn't have the right Constitutional Court to stop it. The Constitutional Court did not play its function as guardian of the Constitution. And when we submitted an initiative for the first package of the Brussels Agreement, the Constitutional Court replied that these were not legal agreements but political agreements and therefore not competent. Turns out they're of a legal nature, too. They've caused enormous legal consequences. Today we have submitted an initiative to review Article 23. The organ transplant law, because we weren't able to convince you that organs were taken from living people. A man is alive while his heart beats. When his heart stops beating, no organ can be used, except for possibly skin and corneas. Let's see how the Constitutional Court shows itself again. Doctors to drive us crazy that the brain stopped working? Well, my people, who here can boast that he has a brain? Those are alive, and they are more beautiful than men with brains. They don't care about the bar. Today we have a bill on pension and disability insurance. I'm going to make only two remarks that I've seen so superficially, because I've been doing scientific work. I studied the textbooks of history and reading books published by three Croatian publishers, or one more German than Croatian. It is "Clet", "Bigz" and "Logos", which are entirely Croatian, and only each year make profits from Serbia about 30m euros. I want to write a book about this, about this and about Minister Sarčević. I've written enough already. You see, there's material here to publish the brochure immediately. First, let me say a few words about this new Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. There is a disputed change on the setting of the annual personal pension coefficient. For all insurance companies, the average monthly earnings in the Republic since the beginning of the calendar year, ending with the month preceding the month in which the insurance company retires, and the average is multiplied by 12, and the basis is determined. The exception is pensioners who do so in January or February, and they don't count on the previous year, but only count on January's earnings, and we know that January's profits are much lower than in other months. This year it was lower by about 10,000 dinars on average compared to other months. It's something that can't stay in the law. Secondly, this pension alignment, as you've introduced here, can't survive. There is no legally regulated obligation to coordinate pensions in a given period and in a particular formula. Here you have about a formula – if the government has money, it will increase, if there is no money, it will not increase. There's got to be a formula. I've always been famous for pushing for quite a pension equalization. For example, I would max out pensions, determine which is the biggest pension. We don't have many pensioners with huge pensions, but we do. Why do we have them? There's no need to have them. If they've made so much money all their lives, they don't need a pension. Retirement is a working and social category. The minimum pension is now about 14,000 dinars. Isn't that right, Natasha? For farmers, it is even smaller – 11,000. The maximum pension is over 120,000 dinars. Isn't that right, Minister Djordjevic? Am I right, 13,000? That's disastrous. What did he make 13,000 dinars pensions for? It's not usually the people of production, it's some other work. Secondly, we have a category of extraordinary pensions. I'd give exceptional pensions to the maximum pension level, and not that it could happen to have the maximum pension, and yet exceptional, because it's another 50,000 or it's increased. So we have this pretty mess in the retirement insurance area and we need a whole new law. I don't think there's any reason for the biggest pension to be four times the minimum. I'm falling into those who are faster to raise lower pensions without getting a little caught up with those highest pensions. Can't imagine someone having a pension bigger than a minister's salary? The Minister's salary is about 120,000? (Mladen Sarčević: 90,000) How? You have less than MPs? That's impossible. (Mladen Sarcevic: Less than an assistant. Aide's got more? Here, but it's your own fault. It's not the opposition's fault. Assistants have more than both MPs and many others. Imagine now, there's a five thousand-euro salary, a governor's salary, or a flight control director's salary that was even higher, much more seven-eight thousand, nine thousand. How much? Eleven? It doesn't matter, it's impossible and now he still needs to get a pension against that salary. He can't do that. Why does the governor have a 5,000-euro pension? His function is approximately in the rank of Deputy Prime Minister. The National Bank must be independent, it must be independent of the executive authority in carrying out its basic work, but not independent and independent in determining the salaries of employees in its structure, so the deputy governors are elected today, so they will have huge salaries, so it will be built indefinitely. That's why paying classes are needed. You didn't have the courage to introduce those payment classes, and if you stood up for it and if you took over from the SRS mostly. That's not good. So, harmonising pensions must depend on some real situation in society. Maybe it's the best of a social gross product and then it's synchronised, whether twice a year, once a year, but it can be monitored and we can control you, and if you're going to have some of your data, which is unverified for us, to determine the amount of pensions, then it's no good either. Here, before I move on to Minister Sarčević, not to make it look like I'm just criticizing you, here's something to commend. I'll commend you, but there is no Zorana Mihajlovic, this would be the first time I've praised her for something, I'm so sorry. Commendation takes everything to Djordjevic. I must commend the proposal for a bill confirming the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships from 2009. This is very clever. He knows Zorana Mihajlovic that Serbia will soon be a maritime country again and in time adopts this international convention. Look, things change, American politics changes. President Wilson told the US Congress in 1918 - Serbia must have a free way out to sea and the time has come to ensure it. Ideally it would be from Karlobag to Drac, it would be relatively favourable from the river Cetina, from the mouth of Cetina to the mouth of Drima, but for the first time, we would have minimum satisfaction with the coast from Prevlaka to Neum. From Prevlaka to Neum, Rističević, take a geographical map, and look. So that's why I think it's very good that you're adopted, you see how much you're, you haven't even saved the paper, you've even given us this in English. If I'd known Minister Djordjevic would have such an inspiring, long and thorough opening presentation, I wouldn't have wasted my time reading all this, I would have listened to him. Now that I've read it all, it wasn't very interesting to me when he spoke. We've got Minister Sarcevic here, too. You know, I think our entire schooling is still a mess and this Ministry of Education has been unable to fix the situation. It introduces some new functions, a high-school manager's function, making a difference between academic and vocational studies, which I think is an incredible nonsense, followed by the Bologna Charter. Although the University of Bologna never wanted to accept Bologna principles and not a single normal university in Europe handled by smart people. The rest is for us to accept it. Here it continues again for a year, i.e. for some categories of two years, to complete studies according to programmes older than September 20015. Be careful, it was stupid setting any deadline. A man when he's in college, he'd have to have the right to study for the rest of his life if he wanted to. As far as you're concerned, will he ever graduate? It's his right. When he retires, he'll graduate or he'll be a doctor. Why? He's got to make himself some kind of chef. You think study efficiency is passability on exams? That's not true. Only the efficiency of study is shown when we see what kind of experts we have afterwards. Many who had an average of ten show themselves to be no lawyers, no economists. Unfortunately, doctors also experience such situations. It's one problem of another kind now. I think we should leave the possibility of unlimited study, so if anyone wants to finish in a year, let them. The first time I was in college, it was at the University of Manheim in Germany, as a student I was 15 days and then over the weekend they took us to the University of Heidelberg. Our guide, first-class intellectual, had already graduated from four colleges of social science and studied fifth. We're the ones with the eyes. He says – I don't study to do it in practice, to get paid, my parents are rich, they have that. Here, and what I've hired as a university guide, it's more to be in touch with people around the world than I have any financial interest. No one's making me study. I'm studying for my pleasure, and I'm going to study while I can, while I'm making it so impossible for it to continue doesn't make any sense anymore. That's what we need. So, anyone can go to college if they've finished their previous schools, and if they're going to finish it, it's up to him, not to force him, and then artificially to raise the passability of the exams, and then to face the situation of having someone finish our college, and he has no idea what he's been studying. That's what would be a fundamental objection to this law. I was the last time Minister Sarcevic was in front of the National Assembly talking about the urgent problem we are facing. The minister promised that his ministry would work to solve the problem, but they did nothing. Like, they started in fifth grade elementary school and first grade high school, so they're gonna do something. But you haven't printed new textbooks for those two classes this year, and you haven't returned the monopoly to the school for publishing textbooks. Here, I spent almost my entire salary, but the minister said he'd buy this for me on a break, I hold it in my word, not to say what the price is, Minister, because people will wonder where you get the money so much, but good. You see, the political problem is that the Germans of the Croatian orientations from this "Klete", as well as the Croats directly print all the textbooks, and I have chosen here only the reading books, i.e. textbooks of literature and textbooks of history. There's a lot of things going on here. For example, in a textbook that publishes "Klet" for the eighth grade of elementary school, the Ustasha movement with Chief Anto Pavelic at the head became the tool of the German genocide policy over the Serb people. Ludi, this is amazing. Hitler carried out genocide against Jews, Roma or gypsies, I don't think it's offensive when that expression is used, to make it clearer, on the Russians and on the Poles. It was a cruel regime in Serbia, but it can't be said that it carried out genocide. The Croats conducted genocide against the Serbs. And it has nothing to do with Hitler. The Roman Catholic Church, the Vatican and decades-long Croatian national ideology stand behind the genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42848	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42849	Am I done yet?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42850	Here, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42851	So these things appear in all these textbooks, somewhere more or less, and no one in the Ministry has ever controlled them. You didn't do anything to stop it. I insist – make an urgent decision that the monopoly will return from the next school year to the school textbooks, and the Institute will immediately, as soon as tomorrow, schedule a competition for all textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42852	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42853	Thank you for continuing to discuss this, because you're mostly right, except for some things, so I'm obliged to give you information that I couldn't in the meantime. Otherwise, this job is not done by the Ministry. Anyone who does anything about this knows that this is what the Institute does to improve education and education. We only have to budget for them certain funds for certain jobs. I'm a two-year minister, and my first year, I asked for the director's shift, and he got it. With the new director of the Bureau, things are starting to get better. The first and five classes are reform and you have new, digital textbooks. But they don't have these historical topics that we're talking about. They're still in some parts of history that don't matter what we're talking about. Six months ago, we formed teams that led to this being now on the governments of both Republika Srpska and Serbia, it was announced and signed, Annex 1, special relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska in Trebinje, 29 August, to form units of five people, which are, by their composition, historian, geographer, professor of literature, language, pedagogue, meaning that it will form something called a national programme. So, the national program or Serbian science, as we call it, is something that has absolutely nothing to do with us. And we've already got all kinds of letters, weird, from the Federation, from different people, like we're a little bit sick. In fact, we keep our values and there's nothing wrong with it, that's what other nations in the world do, Switzerland, Korea and everyone else. So these are just formed units, I think seven days ago the government passed and those units were formed. The present Sinisha has also given some small budget reserve, so that it can begin to do so. So we've got an understanding of all the curricula and programs so these things don't happen. Unfortunately, back in 2015, when the textbook market was introduced in various European models, we managed to fix the last Law on textbooks to at least end the censorship because our Institute fell below the censorship. The Bureau has the same bad situation. One history textbook says that the Institute has chosen a publisher who writes very little about Jasenovac. It's not like that. The authors are Serbs. The recessant is a Serb. The supervisors were missing. Under the new law, we're introducing them, and now it's something that can't be done. What's the trouble? What we have under the old law programs, seventh, eighth grade, and last in school, where this modern history is being studied. We now have only what we have told the school directors and the activities of teachers of these subjects, that their textbook was and remained an auxiliary tool, that their living word and achievement of teaching, plan and programme, is what is most important to respect and realize. So, that's something that's currently true and what we'll certainly be able to say to these accelerated processes of making these plans and programs is what our interest is, not our corner in history, but you really have mistakes that I, as a man of the profession, have seen, as well, some kind of map where it stands in the Middle Ages Croatia in the circumference, which has never been, and a number of other things. But, indeed, by analysis, you will see that Serbian citizens are authors. So we're neighbors, etc., but history has one connotation. I'll tell you something else, if you'll excuse me. We had a report in Brussels in June. They were representatives of all Western Balkan countries. I have rightfully asked that all countries in the region enable our students to teach in Serbian and use Cyrillic letters, because Serbia is doing this, except for Serbs, which belongs to eight other nations in eight languages in Serbia and everyone has their textbooks. I did not give it up, although it was not nice for people who listen, but in all bilateral talks with all ministers in the region, from Albania via Macedonia, further, I will insist. I think we're finally on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42854	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Professor Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42855	The total profit in the field of the issue of primary and secondary textbooks is more than 50m euros. Here, they say 90 million euros. That's what Zarko knows better than I do. So 90 million euros. What did the textbooks department do with that money? There were smart, honorable people there. They invested it in printing capital raised parts of Serbia's largest minds, by Nikola Tesla, Jovan Cvijic, I can't list everything, Alexander Belic, etc. So that's where the profits went, and now the profits are going in private pockets and the high percentage is coming out of Serbia. We have a private in the paper today, some private who got 15 textbooks, still hasn't been able to print them, so it turns out he doesn't have any employees, so now he's just just being employed by him and two others. What do we care? Get the Bureau back, then control the Bureau. For every mistake any institution in the field of education, any agency, you are as a ministry responsible. If budget funding goes through you, you're particularly responsible. No one can be independent. Otherwise, advances avoid, even though they promised, to eliminate these numerous agencies. We've got over 150 agencies, hundreds of them certainly don't need one. Why is that? Why don't you do it when you promise? You don't answer to anyone. So, that this money, which by force of opportunity is earned because of the monopoly on the market, because the textbook has to be sold, and what do these Croatian publishers do? They visit our schools and bribe our teachers - prescribe your students to use that textbook, and you will get that too, so either money or travel or something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42856	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42857	Thank you. The honourable chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, on today's agenda we have several draft laws and agreements and will be supported by the JS parliamentary group in the voting day. As far as the Bill on Pension and Disability Insurance is concerned, we are aware that in 2014 Serbia was bankrupt and that the adoption of the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction was not a political but an economic decision and thus allowed pensions and salaries to continue to be paid. We should thank pensioners for helping the country consolidate financially. As for pensioners, you know, Minister Djordjevic himself, that they are not only using pensions for themselves, but also helping children and grandchildren, and that is not only the trend of the last few years, but the last decade. For this very reason, it is very important that we all take better care of this category of our population together. Many local self-governments care for their pensioners using funds from their budgets, not expecting only the state to help improve the lives of pensioners. That's how it is, for example. a few days ago, a meeting of the heads of the city and the pensioners' associations was held in the Kingdom in order to improve the situation of the pensioners. An invitation has been made to trade chains to give discounts to pensioners. In agreement with the royal theatre, free performances will be held for pensioners, all in order to enable the oldest to have better quality and content of pension days. In Jagodina, pensioners do not pay for transportation, allow them to visit doctors regularly, organize various trips, all about the cost of local budgets. This tells us that other local self-governments can contribute and improve pensioners' position in their cities. The aim of the reform should be to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system that will enable the well-deserved social situation of pensioners. The most important, i.e. key factor guaranteeing a stable pension fund is the development of the country, new investments, new employment, which improves the relationship between workers, i.e. insurance workers and the number of pensioners, as current employees finance pensions. That is why it is one of the government's main goals of reducing unemployment and it stands below 12% in Serbia, around 11.9% in the region, and it is the smallest in the region, and it was five years ago between 25% and 26%. In addition to fighting for every new job, we must also fight that young people do not leave our country because our demographic image is very bad. We must not have a problem like countries in an environment that had a huge outflow of young people and that at the moment the economy stood on their feet they had no one to work for them. Then, strengthening competition among employers and investing in retraining so that workers in Serbia can monitor world trends, and yet on the other hand, investors would know that they have qualified labour here especially when we talk about IT businesses. This would be followed and prepared for a technological revolution, because there is a fear that because of the development of technology, machines will replace labour, which would then reflect the pension system itself. Speaking of retraining workers, I have to mention that in the King's Turkish textile industry in the next three years, about 2,500 workers who have to know how to work on a sewing machine will be employed, so that from October 1st, workers who are in the office are overqualified, and in a group of 100 women who have already been selected, as many as 30% are women over 30 years of age. That's why it's important to work on a timely requalification. What should be pointed out as a result of the reforms is that the total share of the contribution in the total revenues of the fund, for example, was 51.8% in 2012, while the grants were 48.2%. In 2018, grants could be below 30%, thanks to increased employees and better collection of contributions. As I said at the beginning, Minister Djordjevic, the JS parliamentary group will vote for the proposed law, but as a MP coming from a socially responsible party, I have to look back on the problem of about 250 thousand old people who do not have pensions. Statistics show that women are particularly affected by non-income because of the total number of old people without any income, even 80% are women. I know that the PIO system rests on the principle of generation solidarity, i.e. that current employees and profits in the name of pension and disability insurance contributions provide pensions to today's pensioners. Under our social protection system, there is material security for families over 60 years of age who are socially at risk. Is this measure enough to protect old faces? It should be the subject of analysis, and if it turns out to be insufficient, through the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and in accordance with the possibilities, it should allow such persons to live with dignity in the third century. We must not forget that these are the ones that were at the peak of the workforce going through a difficult transition period, and when work conditions were restored, employers no longer wanted to hire them because of years of age. I'm sure this is the problem that you, Minister Djordjevic, try best to solve through your Ministry. You have an example of Macedonia that will introduce social pensions in 2020, and one of the conditions is that the country has lived for the past 20 years. Croatia is also one step away from introducing pensions like this. As for the proposal for higher education, October arrived, and the question of old students is reopened with October. For us from JS, nothing is disputed. The students are given another opportunity to complete their studies according to the programme by which they are enrolled. In this way, they will not be financially burdened by switching to a new teaching programme. It is encouraging that a large number of students have managed to finish college during previous extensions. I think there were about 24 thousand at first, and now we're talking about about 4,000 students. The amendment of the Law on Higher Education also provides for the recognition of disputed PhDs in colleges which did not have the permission to perform master's or doctoral studies at the time of graduation. The accreditation committee has challenged 103 diplomas to 22 private colleges, and I do not think it is a controversial quality and work of students themselves, but rather the urgency and lack of those colleges. That would correct the injustice against non-guilty students, because they simply didn't know that colleges didn't have the necessary documentation and you said yourself, Minister, to avoid numerous lawsuits. The paradox, Minister Sarčević, was that the former meeting of the National Council for Higher Education, i.e. his body, the Accreditation Commission, on two occasions accredited universities that are now challenging the mentioned doctoral degrees. I may come out of the topic of higher education for a moment, but I certainly will not get out of the subject of education, and especially not from the subject of life-interesting citizens whose representatives we are, and in particular my Royal. You are familiar with the problem, Minister, which is current these days, and is related to peer violence at a primary school in the King. Your Ministry, and you yourself were in a stalemate position. On the one hand, you have a student who has the right to regular education, not only the right, but also the obligation, because basic education is mandatory. On the other hand, you have a group of students who feel threatened by him and parents who are concerned about the safety of their children. Thank you for participating in solving this problem so that both sides can be satisfied. You've shown that the state is interested in solving the problem of peer violence that exists years ago, but it's become more visible lately, it's being talked about, it's pointing to a problem, which is good, because that's the way to solve it. The problem can be solved if institutions, schools, parents, and children themselves are involved. I would also take this opportunity to commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because many international agreements, which are on the agenda today, are the result of great engagement and work, both President Aleksandr Vukic and the serious and committed work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs headed by Minister Dacic. I think that all citizens of Serbia, if not all, then most, with great attention and interest, have followed the visit of President of the Republic of China and I hope that the agreements agreed there will soon be in the Assembly on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42858	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42859	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SVM MPs will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance because of significant changes and additions to which I will look at myself in my address. The first change is the change in the method of calculating the amount of early retirement for insurance companies with a well-favoured working time going into early retirement, with a reduction in pension levels, so that the pens for these insurance companies are counted against the reduced age limit for each specific insurance company with the benefited track. This makes it fairer to account for the amount of early retirement for these insurance companies, as the percentage of the reduction will be determined in relation to their reduced age limit, rather than the general age limit, as provided for in the applicable law. I would point out here that we hope that some subsequent changes will end a permanent decrease in the amount of early retirement for all users. The next change is, which we think is positive, that until the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system is achieved, it will be harmonised according to the rules governing the budget and the budget system, not as twice a year with inflation growth and the part of GDP, on 1 April and 1 October. The proposed changes envision the possibility of increasing income by paying the money amount, such as an increase in pension, but depending on the economic movements and financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund's budget. Data is also the possibility that funds from the Fund can be extremely used to pay out financial assistance to pensioners when such assistance is needed by a large number of users. The amount is determined by the Government, counting on the balance sheet options of the Fund. The next amendment is aimed at reducing the number of temporary solutions of the PIO Fund. There's been a change in the way the last year's security staff has been accounted for. I think that's positive, because according to current practice, the last year of the insurance internship was possible only after the end of the year, as Mr. Minister said the Republic Statistics Institute had announced the average annual earnings in the Republic, so the Fund had to make temporary solutions. It is still to be noted here that the duration of temporary solutions is being put in place - three years in the event of the lack of all necessary data to make a final solution. As next - it ceases to be the Fund's authority to make a forced payment on behalf of outstanding PIO contributions with the suspension of one-third of pensions to insurance companies who themselves are bonds of payment of contributions. In this way, pensioners will receive pensions according to the contributions paid, as the pension amount is determined in accordance with the length and level of payment of contributions. As the next significant change is in the part of the parent records, as we welcome, there is a alignment with the Law on the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance, which significantly reduces employers' obligations to complete and deliver different applications. Here is the most thought of pattern M4, and yet we heard from the minister that it was a total of 17 forms, which should not be filled out. In the end, I left one of the most significant amendments to the Law on the Provisional Editing of the Way of Retirement ceases to apply on 30 September 2018. The basis for the payment of pensions for the month of October 2018 and further harmonisation of pension payments, i.e. for the month of October 2014, is in line with the applicable rules. As I stressed at the beginning of the presentation that the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will support the bill, but I must point out that unfortunately, the proposed amendments do not provide for a solution to the long-standing problem of paying contributions to the PIO of small agricultural producers. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has been dealing with the problem of PIO insurance of agricultural producers for nearly 10 years, with problems that farmers have for payment and unfortunately due to PIO's failure to pay. The main problem is the size of the holdings of agricultural land. For reasons of reminders, the same amount of contribution is required by farmers, owners who have half a hectare of the country as those who have 100 hectares of the country. Due to the debt on behalf of unpaid contributions or unpaid contributions to PIO Tax, the administration shall initiate the mandatory payment procedure. If we have an accurate report, then in April of this year these debts amounted to 184 billion dinars. It should be pointed out here that some problems are solved. The 2014 amendment of the PIO Act allowed only one member of the family-agricultural ownership, as the minister pointed out, and by 2014 there was a payment obligation for all members of the family. We can say that there have been debt reprogrammes, but unfortunately, the underlying problem has not been solved. The proposal of the Working Group of the four ministries of the previous government was for contributions to be paid in proportion to economic size and family ownership. This proposal would ease the existing problem, but unfortunately the proposal is not included in this bill that is before us. What is the essence of this proposal? It is important that farmers who land on smaller surfaces of PIO pay insurance be proportionate to the economic strength of their holdings. The revenues can easily be calculated, it is only important that the various ministries take this problem seriously. We MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union are aware that farmers must pay PIO. We only suggest that those farmers who land on smaller surfaces pay a smaller amount in the name of PIO in proportion to the economic size, the economic strength of their family holdings. A few statistics on agricultural pensions this year, according to our performances, we have 146.703 agricultural pensioners, and their average pension is 11.580,00 dinars. So, these pensions are very small. I appeal to the Honorable Minister, Mr. Djordjevic, to prepare a proposal with the Ministry of Finance in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, some solution to this problem to be incorporated into the subsequent amendments to the Law on PIO. As regards the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, I will make several amendments and additions that we think will improve this law, which is before us, and these are first – the extension of the authority of the National Council for Higher Education to regulate and conflict of interest in the choice of teachers and associates and the establishment of a working relationship at a higher education institution. The accreditation and quality-checking committee shall also carry out extraordinary controls in addition to regular supervision during the fourth year of the accreditation cycle. As next – a higher school institution can organize a short study programme for people with completed secondary education. As next, the University of Belgrade is declared a higher education institution of national importance. Every higher school institution should have the advice of employers, which has been possible so far. A secret vote was put in place for the selection of the bodies of the business, and a recommendation for the resolution of the Anti-Corruption Agency was introduced as a legal obstacle for the selection of persons on the job of the managing authority. As Mr. Minister said - the place of manager for the Academy of Professional Studies and for the High School is being introduced. The term, condition and way of selecting a Serbian language lecturer at higher education institutions abroad is also introduced. As the previous colleague said, it was also an extended period of completion of study by one year, for some students for two years of studying under the old curriculum. I will specifically refer to the amendment to the draft law relating to the language of the study. The provisions governing the use of language have been amended, so that it is possible for a higher education institution to organise exams and perform certain parts of studies as well as the defence of master and specialist work and doctoral dissertation in a foreign language in accordance with the statute and without the need for specific accreditation of the entire study programme in a foreign language. A new position has thus been added to regulate that a higher education institution can implement a study programme in the language of national minorities and foreign languages if this programme is approved or accredited. The objection of our parliamentary group is heading towards the possibility of organising exams and performing certain parts of the study, as well as organising and defending the final master and specialist work, as well as doctoral dissertation in the language of the national minority, not only in a foreign language. In that direction, we have submitted one amendment. On this amendment, we can say that the Law on Higher Education with the Last Amendments of 2014 is in Article 80(2), this issue has been regulated in the way we propose the amendment. We hope Mr. Secretary will accept our amendment and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42860	Thanks, buddy Peck. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42861	As soon as the other amendments are made, it will be discussed anyway. Also, what my dear colleague from the King mentioned earlier, we have an opportunity to say that this is the September moon that is the hottest when it comes to child violence and all that is happening. We have 900,000 students two drastic cases, one is Zemun, one is the King, and these are cases that are being observed now and really fundamentally. The entire teams of the Ministry of Education for Violence are in the King, along with the people of the City of Kings Social Labour Centre, we also know all the troubles that occurred last year and we find a quality solution. We have a small obstruction of family members, which is clear to you. Our laws are simply such that obligation leads us to some absurd situations, but I think even these situations will be overcome if we perform organizedly together. What's in Zemun, I was informed two days ago about this boy being harassed, but we have an SOS phone, we have an entire team dealing with violence. We raised it to reporting obligations last year. In Smederev, in kindergarten, we changed the entire administration and the entire school board, so the director, because they don't report it. All our teams are now in Zemun, and we are now investigating whether a new law is being applied in this House, and he says the school is due, has the right to take advantage of the possibility that child molesters' parents and how they take up observation, even legal procedures. So, we're responding to every case, and so far, six school principals have been replaced because of non-responsiveness to violence. The Ministry doesn't have any dilemmas, it's really serious about this story, there's no carpeting or pushing under the carpet, and that was, unfortunately, a being. Let's go see how big it is and how to fight it. I thank, first of all, the Ministry of Labour, because their help from the Social Work Centre is necessary, as well as cooperation with the family, and thank you for being noticed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42862	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42863	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will concentrate on two laws. One is the Law on Higher Education, and the other are these two laws concerning pensions. First, I'll start with the Higher Education Act. We have a few things here, some are good, some aren't. I'll start with what's good. Here, I also need to commend the way the question of the lecturer has been solved. It's a very important question, important for a national matter. We know that our itchy is on the extremity, and that's precisely because of the lack of a lecturer. It is very well settled legally this question of lecturers, and I hope that Serbians, just supported by such a law, will experience an old glow, as they did years ago. As for what I would not agree with, those are Articles 14 and 18. The law. Article 14, in fact, says graduates to students who have enrolled in studies who have failed to meet the requirements, if the commission finds they have met their obligations. It's like it was done for someone. We all know that the son of a rector enrolled his doctoral studies without having finished his master's degree. It's said to be a punishment for an institution, but these people, however, will be admitted and I don't think it's fair or fair. The second is Article 18, in which, in fact, everything spoken in these other members is abandoned, and that is that all diplomas in institutions acquired without accreditation have to be considered valid. We all know that there was a long-standing kid, so to speak, between the drop, between the Ministry and there were big problems, so we have so far, it's been said, 2,000 controversial PhDs. However, it is not only the degrees of the doctorate that have been disputed, but it has become indirectly controversial and graduates of the students, or courses in which these people taught. I know it's a higher power, and it's all very expensive, but it remains a bitter taste in the mouth and, well, it's said that it's actually done most because of this famous famo in which the former president of the state acquired his degree and master's degree. I'm not saying anything, I'm just repeating what's being said in Serbia. As for extending the deadline to the old students, we certainly advocate extending the deadline. I think it should be done because many people work and study. I know in particular that nurses, high-school nurses, in the meantime, have gotten married, have children born, work three-dimensionally, and they are really not easy to finish, but we thank you, Mr. Minister, it would be very good to issue a recommendation that what is the same possibility for students, so on and so forth. The bolognas, those who walk in the Bologna system. In this case they are extremely discriminated against, they have a shorter period of study, eight years, so if they break through, and they have exactly the same problems as those who have entered the old system, it would not be fair and correct. I hope you will issue that recommendation and thus provide everyone with the same conditions of study. Now I'd move on to pension laws. Of course we support the abolition of this unfair and unconstitutional law that was passed four years ago, which is a temporary reduction, not to say, of people's pensions. We all know well that pensions are acquired and that a solution is issued on behalf of pensioners, that this pension solution is issued on the basis of the length of work experience and on the basis of paid contributions. So, the money to pay off the pension has already gone into the fund, and that's where pensions can be paid off. The Constitution has been broken here and it is good that this solution to the Constitution is now being corrected. But what's wrong is a few things. First of all, it's that we haven't seen anywhere how people will be compensated for these four years. According to some budgets, 800m euros have been taken from pensioners for the past four years, according to some budgets over billions of euros. We did the amendment by asking that as many months as pensions were cuts, the same amount of interest is returned to the people. That would be one fair way. The second thing that's not good about this law is that it's all in the hands of the government now. In fact, it has been normal so far for pensions to be coordinated either with the cost and cost of life or combined with the cost of living, or prices and GDP. However, it turns out that the job will be nothing and that the government is granted a discretionary right to decide how much and how it will pay pensions, or how it will regulate pension size. It's very bad because it throws people into a total uncertainty. All of us who work somehow count on knowing how much money has been paid into the PIO Fund, how long we've worked and we can go somewhere and plan our pension, and that means we're planning our own age. However, there is no longer any plan of retirement or financial planning of age, because everything depends on the mercy of the government, all depends on who we will have as finance minister, who for the Minister of Social Affairs and who they are in whose mercy all pensioners will live. We think it's a very bad solution. It is a solution that is even unconstitutional because pension, or pension right and pension law, has its own plantings in the Constitution, and we can't as a state right now, it wouldn't be good, that as one European state we're changing it, and by what the Fiscal Council says, we're putting ourselves in a group of countries in the Middle East and North Africa where there's this kind of pension payment, so the government decides how much, how and when pensions are going to be in line with the cost of life. That means, if the money in the budget is going to be an increase in pensions, if the money in the budget isn't going to be there. I repeat, pension is acquired law and we've all been saving, in fact, by putting our savings into the Fund so that we can enjoy one financial, both safe age and pension. We'll all live to hope to retire sooner or later, and those who are very young now and think that their pension is far away, she'll come for sure if they're lucky and healthy. I hope that if the MPs and the majority of the Assembly adopt what they really are, I'd say, I'd use one perhaps sharp word, in a radical way, that you'll get people on the streets, you'll get unions of employees, you'll get unions of pensioners, because many people are very unhappy with the head of the Fiscal Council on these solutions. The fiscal council, I'm apostrophysing, right now precisely because the Fiscal Council even praised, which of course wasn't our opinion then, this fiscal consolidation and now pensions are 11% of GDP. As a country, we really have a very good chance of legal harmonisation and that pensions are regulated legally twice a year, not at the mercy of the government. As for the very formula for calculating pensions, which is completely ignored and completely deleted by this law, it certainly needs to be returned, and we have also amendedly intervened there and we are asking for a formula to be introduced and to introduce this so-called. A combined, or Swiss formula where you have 50% of GDP and 50% of the cost of life. That's also what the Fiscal Council proposes. I advise you to listen to the Fiscal Council, because the Fiscal Council is an expert and all those regimes that haven't been since the 1980s, so here to this day, they've been listening to the word of experts, and then they've had a very big financial imbalance. This also applies to the 1980s, the end of the 1980s when major financial destabilization occurred, after Yugoslavia fell apart. Of course it wasn't the only reason, but it was the reason that certainly helped. It was then in the 1990s when pensions were again accounted for without GDP but only at prices, and then it was not done by law, but by the government's decision, so the Constitutional Court of Serbia declared it unconstitutional, then in 2001 it decided that these pensions had to return, and it also caused destabilisation, and so until the 2008 pension increase, which also, along with the major financial crisis, caused destabilisation. So, I'm not saying this so that you can deal with history here, but simply to warn the most well-intentionedly that you need to listen to the word of experts, but also the word of pensioners and pensioners who predict something similar. Now we have a member of 37 talking about the introduction of a discretionary pension increase. We absolutely advocate an increase in pensions and this increase in these smallest pensions. We believe that, and similarly considers the Fiscal Council, introduce a minimum pension institute, so that we know which is the minimum pension and then that the minimum pension is, of course, in accordance with a particular formula, by law twice a year with the cost of living and with GDP. Otherwise, if we have a monetary increase with pension, it's a populist measure of courting the poorest people in the country, but also a very dangerous measure that practically speaks of pensions becoming a social category and actually preparing an office, i.e. that more and less pensions will be the same, so it doesn't matter whether you were cleaning up at a clinical center or you were a leading neurosurgeon at the clinical center. As for this seized, or kidnapped part of the pension, which, as I said, is a billion and a half, and by some 800m euros, it should certainly return to the pensioners or at least declare this debt to be Serbia's sovereign debt and that people can compensate in this way. You're gonna avoid lawsuits, you're gonna avoid any riots, and I think that would be really celibate. Also, I have to mention tax collection, but also a large number of taxpayers who are forgiven for not paying their contributions. I read today in "Politica" about a shoe-making company, which has for years been paying no contributions to workers and which has damaged Serbia's budget and, of course, the pensioners themselves, as well as the workers themselves, for some very large money. On the other hand, you've got a lot of those who don't pay for the pores, and somewhere I've come across the fact that about four billion euros stands for unpaid taxes. Indeed, it is not fair and fair that the state drags its hands into the pensioners' pocket and says – there is no money, it cannot pay them with these large systems that do not pay taxes. I'd still mention the pension fund. There it is evident that the ruling peak has put its paw on the PIO fund by changing the composition of the board of directors. Now the board of directors has seven people, four of whom are party people and there is a monopoly on decisions, and this is particularly dangerous in the event of the intention to sell the property of the pension fund. There will be some money for an acute patching of holes, however, followed by one big nothing and probably a pensioner. We have also intervened in this amendment and we hope that you will respect these amendments and that this law will be better and fairer not only for the pensioners but for the whole Serbian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42864	Thank you, colleague Raskovic Ivić. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42865	I'll just take a minute. I agree, as two years ago, that we will apply to higher education institutions for those first "bolons". At that time, 80% of the people respected, although I had great discomfort, that I had even exceeded my powers, and I was accused of it, but it made it clear that it was a recommendation. When it comes to the case of Arsenijević's son, it is no reason to be brought, he is a cause, but can't be a student, even if he was named Arsenijević, to be guilty because he didn't sign himself up, it's just a replacement of responsibility. So there's a lot of cases, it's not one. Do you know what the procedure is like under the current rules? You can't legally challenge that, and then you put in an expert commission of five experts, immunologists, infectologists, for months you've been working to prove that the doctorate is excellent. So this worked as a cause anyway, and then we looked into if there were any more of these cases. So it's certainly a responsible institution, not a student, in any other case. It was the paradigm of the situation. When it comes to conditionality, these doctors are "under suspicion", as you say. If I were to tell you that the entire National Council is high, that all the members of the Conus and the Priors said that this was just a technical question, that no one had filed a request, we asked all the colleges, both held and private, to make it clear to us, I wouldn't now be counting which state didn't have that act, and if they multiplied what they said, 100 and something, with the right number, then we're talking more than 1,500. And since it is not the authority of the CAPK to establish the credibility of the diploma, but of the ministry, we have reached a legal act for what has already been twice, it means that accreditation has passed, which has already been obtained by law. So, all other cases, of course we agree that they're illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42866	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42867	Thank you. Dear MPs, I would like to begin my presentation with a conclusion that I see that you have read what the Fiscal Council said, but you have not entered into the essence or you do not understand what the Fiscal Council said and what it wanted and in essence how wrong it was in its assessment. I'm going to read you a letter that we're writing to the Fiscal Council, and I believe you'll understand and understand from how wrong the Fiscal Council has made, how casually it has made its decision, how hasty it's made its decision, how hasty it hastily written that question, and you've just changed it as your formulation and presented it here to us. Thus, in its evaluation, the Fiscal Council points out that the bill will not allow for a return to the regular functioning of the pension system but would, on the contrary, lead to the collapse of its predictability of integrity. The bottom line of the problem is two key proposed changes – eliminating the formula and giving the government discretionary opportunity to decide on pension coordination and, under two, giving the government discretionary opportunity to pay off the monetary increase with pension, which we have heard from you. When it comes to harmonising pension levels, it is further stated that the bill de facto abolishs the pension harmonisation formula and gives the government the discretionary right to decide on pension harmonisation. Article 9. The bill gives the Government the authority to decide by regulations governing the budget and the budgetary system on pension harmonisation until the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system is achieved. We suggest that members of the 9th. The draft law provides for an amendment to the existing Article 80b of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is now found to be exceptional from Article 80 of that Law during the application of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pension pensions can only be increased in accordance with the law governing the budgetary system and the law governing the budget. The proposed amendment to this legal norm applies that it will also be an exceptional member of the 80s. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, until the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system is achieved, shall be harmonised in accordance with the rules laid down by the budget and the budgetary system. Therefore, it can be noted that the bill does not remove the formula for harmonising pensions, but practically extends the current situation, i.e. the coordination of pensions in a manner prescribed by law governing the budgetary system and budget, which is applied in 2014. Also, it is not clear where the assessment of Article 9 comes from. The draft law gives the Government the authority to decide on pension harmonisation, when it is known that the laws governing the budgetary system and the budget, as well as the amendments to those regulations, are adopted by the National Assembly. The pensions have been increased three times since 2014. Each time it is done by adopting amendments to those regulations by the National Assembly. Therefore, there is no provision in the draft law that the Government will be given that competence, nor will the harmonisation formula be abolished. The bill does not prohibit the introduction into the rules governing the budgetary system and the budget of the pension harmonisation formula. Most of the other evaluations of the Fiscal Council are on the subject of pension harmonisation, based on the forward-mentioned mispresumption of the abolition of the formula for harmonising and giving discretionary powers to the government. The fiscal council in the assessment cited the abolition of the formula for harmonisation, therefore, would not allow for more efficient spending planning, according to the legislator, but would, on the contrary, undermine the predictability of the pension system by introducing uncertainty among workers who pay pension contributions and prevent them from effectively planning their age. I'd say one word, but I'm not going to go to the National Assembly right now, and I'm going to tell you another thing about what I wanted. I think that's exactly what was said at this point, and I see that you who haven't thought about it are just here for us and foreshadowed it. So, I point out that even the existence of a law providing for a firm formula for the coordination of pensions on the basis of the movement of certain parameters does not in itself mean predictability or economic stability. In fact, at a time when pensions were in line with the so-called so-called pensions. the Swiss formula I told you about in the lab, i.e. According to the percentage that equally included price and profit developments in the previous period, there have been several times that price and profit growth is higher than expected, making it almost every year a budget rebalance, as well as a financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, which has threatened the stability of financing pension payments. In addition, the pension harmonisation formula itself has been changed almost two decades before, which cannot mean predictability in a way described by the Fiscal Council and you. It is precisely the fact that pension coordination is brought into line with budget planning which participates in financing regular pension payments and other pension and disability insurance rights, that it is intended to achieve predictability and economic stability, without unexpected conditions, e.g. unexpected growth in earnings during the year, as was the case in the past. Regardless of the positive developments in public finances and the reduction of deficits in financing expenditures of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, it is clear that this cannot be a reason to relax when it comes to the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system, which requires the existence of caution regarding the management of expenditures of this system. The second key point that the Fiscal Council criticises, and you today, in your assessment, refer to Article 37. The bill sets out the legal basis for the government to be able to pay the money as a pension increase, depending on the economic movements and financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, further finding that the funds for these purposes cannot be higher than 0.3% of gross domestic product on an annual basis. According to the assessment, thus giving the government the possibility of discretion, without objective and systemic criteria, increasing individual pensions beyond previously paid contributions would undermine the integrity of the pension system and undermine the trust that has been built up for generations. In addition, the text states - this is how the principles of pension-inhabitation are undermined and the possibility of further collapse is opened in the coming years. I must draw your attention to this and previous word with the IMF and they agree with one and another amendment of the members of this law. We indicate that the said possibility of paying the amount as an increase in pension is exactly the opposite of that of you. It does not violate the principles of the pension and disability insurance system, since paying that amount does not mean changing the way the pension is calculated, nor does it have to do with the harmonisation of pensions. That amount is clearly separate from the pension, and as foreseen, will be paid depending on the financial opportunities of the state. The government's definition is to provide additional protection to lower pensions users, but in such a way as not to jeopardise the principles of pension and disability insurance, as well as to preserve the stability of public finances. As a result, a limit of the total amount of funds for this purpose has also been introduced, and the draft law does not stipulate an obligation, but merely the possibility of payment of that cash amount. So, in line with the above, we believe that both of us, both of you and the Fiscal Council, are not standing. You're talking about some violation of the Constitution and that the Constitution has been violated and that we must call ourselves mind. I have to tell you that so far, all the lawsuits that were in court have not passed, or have fallen. I mean, that you deceive citizens and force them to the costs they don't need, which is to file charges and to believe they'll get in court and that, trusting you, is counter-constitutional. Unfortunately for you, too, and fortunately for us, a small number of citizens trust such a policy and believe that they should sue the state, already trust another policy, and that other policy says that pensions after the reduction, i.e. the elimination, will be from 8.8% to 13.2% compared to that period in October 2014. This country's policy is exactly how it applies to citizens, in this case to pensioners and exactly how we care about them, that those lowest pensions can be helped and given a certain increase, and that on the other hand, we do not endanger fiscal space and that we do not endanger the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's a responsible policy. Responsible policy isn't that citizens live and don't know if they'll be paid a pension, and you remember those times. Citizens are not predictable to have a pension of one euro, or one mark, as I know, that my father and my mother had one mark. The predictability of the system is like this, that they know that the state is moving forward, that there will be better economic conditions and that the state will, in accordance with these economic conditions, give. You'd be satisfied to have a pension rate of 0.1% and 1% a year. The times when inflation was big and the price rise for a little bit that was a two-digit is a thing of the past. Now we have 1% inflation, 1.5%. Do you believe it would be a good increase in pensions of 1.5%? We don't believe it. We believe a good increase of three, four, five, six percent. And they need to get closer to wages and to the minimum consumer basket. These measures and all of these are in the direction of our pensioners every year in accordance with the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Law, how good it is for this country, to be well with them. It's the policy of this government, and that's what we're going to propose at the end of this year and at the end of every year. As much as it'd be better for the state to be a field and a pensioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42868	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42869	Thank you very much. I'd take the opportunity to give a little perspective on all these pension payments and pension fund conditions. A moment ago, Mrs. Ivić, you said that the money had agreed to the fund, and that's where the pensions paid off. That, unfortunately, should be the case, but that's not the case. In 2008, once a disastrous and irresponsible decision, pensions increased four times. They have increased so much that they have affected 2% of GDP and have led to the participation of pensions in GDP that year being 13.4%. Since then, all the problems of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia have started. It is starting to grow public debt, which culminated with 74.7% in 2014, which culminated in 2012, with 6.6%, a negative deficit compared to GDP, and this is a situation that has changed since 2014, and beyond. I'll give you one more piece of information. As you know, the PIO Fund is filled with money from contributions, but is also being charged with money paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It was precisely because pensions were increased in an irresponsible way and money, or money, were not for their payment, in 2014 that 43.7% of all liabilities the PIO Fund had were touched from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So almost half of the pension commitments were paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget, instead of receiving or receiving contributions from how many employees there are in the Republic of Serbia. Since then, it's been over 200 billion dinars a year, this year that amount has dropped to 28.4%. Why? Because the government's economic policy shows results. You never have a higher number of employees, so in the second quarter of this year 11.9% of the unemployed, compared to 23.9% in 2012. You have a higher contribution, or inflow, to the PIO Fund budget, thus reducing the commitments of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This shows you how much more responsible this policy is than the policy that took place until 2013. And what Minister Djordjevic said - we do not deal with politics when we make decisions, we deal with the economy. If the situation is even better, and you know that we have a record growth rate of 4.9% in the first six months of this year, we have a surplus in the budget, here's a third year in a row, we have a public debt reduction of less than 50% by the end of the year, or early next year. Then why don't the pensioners feel better in the years to come? Why should we focus on the rate of inflation that is never less, 1%, 1.5%, if we can get a good result next year, offer pensioners more? To conclude, the Budget and Budgetary System Act brings and adopts the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42870	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42871	Thank you. As for Minister Sarčević, I understood him and respected everything he said. As for Minister Djordjevic's discussion, I have to say I didn't understand him very well, and I don't think anyone understood him, and maybe he didn't understand himself. However, what falls into my eyes is that he did mention that pensions will be paid, or that this harmonisation will depend on the financial situation. So again we have dependence on the financial situation, not legal harmonisation that should be twice a year. You also said that pensions will be increased and that they will be now since October, by some 13% higher than they were before they were taken away, i.e. the reduction in part of pensions in 2014, but I must tell you that the cost of life has increased by 15%. Therefore, these cost of life are nowhere to be included and 13% again is less than this 15%. Mr. Sinisha Mali is talking about the surplus. It's nice, we welcome, I don't know how you calculated it, but I'm starting from the premise that it's true, so if we have a surplus in the budget, and then in the law you didn't put anywhere that way for people to get back what was taken away from them for four years, that's 200 million euros on an annual basis. We suggest that it be as many months as it's been taken to return it, of course, to them with interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42872	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42873	I don't know if you and I understood, so it wasn't taken away from the pensioners what you destroyed and what you lost by irresponsible policy from 2008 until 2013. So if I told you earlier that there was no money in the budget, and if I told you just before that 11, or 13.4% of GDP was going to retire, that pensions had no place to pay off, and that was your policy, then ask yourself where you're going to get it back to the pensioners for taking it from them. And with responsible policy, we managed to stabilise our public finances and from real sources, in a real way we tell people we have this much, there will be so many pensions, the better, there will be even more. Pensions in Serbia, let me tell you, will be getting bigger and bigger, because the situation is getting better and better. I want you to get used to the high growth rates of our economy, to forget your 3.1% in 2009 of the negative growth rate, to the decline of our economy, and get used to our 4.9% in the first six months, and then the growth rates lead to higher investment inflows, lower unemployment, higher budget inflows and higher pensions and public sector wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42874	Thank you, Minister Mali. Dear Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now set a break of one hour and continue at 15 hours and 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42875	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42876	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group will support all laws on the agenda of today's session. I will focus on the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, that is, on its changes and additions, as probably the most important law in this area of socio-economic law, so to speak. The amendments and additions to this Act are numerous and, as the minister said, they are all positive, but I would say that it is probably the most important, and in any case it has attracted the public's greatest attention, and I would say first of all, the pensioner, the abolition of the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid. I will begin my discussion and most of it will be based precisely on the reasons for the abolition of this law, but also on the general state of our PIO Fund, but also on our public finances that caused the need for one such law to be passed. We continue as a predominant have a so-called pension system "pay-as-you-go", i.e. a system of intergenerational solidarity, which means that pensions to today's pensioners are paid out of current contributions, i.e. contributions paid by citizens who are employed today. Of course, things can be viewed in a different way, i.e. from another angle, which, I believe, is far closer to the pensioners, and equally correct, and that would be that, essentially, pensioners themselves finance their pensions by paying their entire working century in the PIO Fund. What is the problem with this second logic, or what is the general problem of our pension and disability insurance system? In the first place, our PIO Fund began to collapse in the 1980s, that is, its financial position, its assets, or, if you will, its assets began to drop drastically in the 1980s, and in the 1990s, during sanctions and wars, its assets were almost completely devastated. This, of course, is not the fault of today's pensioners who have suffered the consequences of the situation, but it is certainly not the people who are employed today, who fill this PIO Fund and, if you will, pay taxes from which, after that, or from the budget, this Fund is being touched, as the PIO Fund is being recorded each year by a huge deficit. When a very bad relationship is added to such a bad situation in the PIO Fund, i.e. an unfavourable ratio of the number of pensioners and the number of employees and the constant trend in the deterioration of that relationship, we have today the situation that this ratio is 1: 1.5 then it is clear that the PIO Fund has gone towards total financial unsustainableness over time and there has been an increasing burden on the republican budget. Not to mention that in some times not so long ago, pensions have been completely irrational, without any economic logic, without any economic grounds, increased, that people have been sent mass into early retirement and that, I say, they are going to apologize for being so eloquently express themselves, with a fist and a hat of shared disability pensions when there were no legal grounds for them. The second not less important is that the PIO system, the Pay-as-you-go system, the time has run over and that it is now completely anachron and economically unsustainable. This system showed its full functionality at a time after so-called. “baby boom” when the number of young people, i.e. the number of employees, far exceeded the number of old, or number of users of PIO services, or the number of pensioners. In the meantime, however, demographic trends have changed dramatically and the number of children born has decreased significantly, i.e. the number of those who paid money to the PIO Fund has decreased significantly, while citizens' lives have been extended, as they will say, the number of users of the PIO Fund have increased. This trend was observed in the developed world, i.e. in developed countries in time, and they started reforming the pension system, by introducing so-called. the second and third pillars of pension insurance, which were to take over at least one part over time, if not a major part of the role of the first pillar, i.e. the column “Pay-as-you-go” of the system. We, of course, were, as usual and with these reforms, too late and as we implemented them as a completely financial situation, i.e. the financial position of the country's citizens was already so bad that the second and third pillars had no great chance of serious life. Of course, not only for these reasons, but, among other things, we found ourselves almost on the verge of collapse a few years ago, that is, the edge of a complete financial collapse, when we were forced to resort to very difficult painful and extremely unpopular fiscal consolidation measures, including this measure that we are talking about, that is, the measure of reducing our pensions to heal our financial system, to put it on sound ground and to make it in the extreme case and pensions of current and future pensioners safe. I know that a large number of citizens do not understand and, in the end, it is not a job for every citizen to fully understand the models of economic movement, that he does not understand that in 2012 or 2013, we were literally one step away from the ambience, or that we were in a situation that very quickly we were able to enter a "cirsulus Vitiosus", a snide of borrowing, which would lead us into debt slavery, and as debt slavery does not seem to have to look very far. I think it's enough to look at the example of our friendly and up to twenty years ago in the neighbouring country of Greece, which faced this problem and which has therefore been forced to reduce pensions several times to the citizens, far, far more than we have done. So for these reasons, we were, as I said, forced to apply certain painful extreme unpopular measures, including the one that is abolished by this law, that is, the reduction of pensions. Regardless of the fact that this measure is extremely unpleasant and unpopular, it has not been taken as some hasty measure, nor is it some reckless move or political whim, and even less is a move that is economically unfounded, which is witnessed and supported by both the domestic and international economic public, this looks like one of the fiscal councils and the IMF, it was already one of the few measures that we had available at that time only in an attempt to bring about this crisis, which, I say, was eroding, that kind of fire that was erupting, we try to put out. I know there have been some other ideas and suggestions on how to solve the problem of fiscal consolidation, i.e. in any way to reduce expenditures and increase revenues, but I have to say that people who are fundamentally understood in economic theory and practice know that any tax reform of any public enterprises is a measure that has so-called. the time delay, i.e. the time delay, and that for the results of such measures, it must wait at least three to six months, very likely and longer. In doing so, the big question is whether the results will be what we planned. Unfortunately for us, the only measures that give the current results are those measures that are most unpleasant for the citizens, but that we understand the most unpleasant and the political elite that must make such an unpopular decision and thus reduce their political popularity, which is the reduction of wages and pensions. To avoid misunderstandings, this is not some measure we invented, nor is this some measure that someone on the side has imposed on us. The theorists know they're going to say, "IMF," "that he's going to practice on us some kind of economic model or that he's going to use us as guinea pigs." This is the measure that has already been achieved in some other countries, and that is why we have applied it. As an example of the country in which this measure has resulted, I will give you an example of a small open economy like Serbia, and it is also the case of Latvia, which in 2008, in 2009, has seen extremely unfavourable economic developments in its country, and has seen their budget moving towards a serious deficit and at the same time reacting to drastic linear cuts and wages and pensions by 20%, without any social protection of the most vulnerable, or those with the lowest incomes. I will remind you that when we introduced measures to reduce pensions, we made these measures very socially responsible, i.e. to protect those who have the least income. In some, about two years, Latvia has fully stabilised its public finances and abolished, of course, all the measures, i.e. abolished the pension reduction measure, but Latvia is the country that has always led an extremely responsible fiscal policy, which is the fact that it is one of the EU countries, if not the number of one EU country, at the lowest participation of public debt in GDP, but because they have been responsible fiscal policy for years. Someone will, of course, ask now -- well, after two years of Latvia abolished the pension reduction, why does it take us three and a half years or a little more than three and a half years to lift that measure? Because at a time when they were preventive in 2008, in the wake of the global economic crisis, they reduced wages and pensions. At the time, we talked about the great chances that the global economic crises provide to Serbia, and we have increased pensions completely irrationally, without any economic logic. When you run a world economic crisis of irresponsible fiscal policy for years, then one day when you decide to start leading a responsible fiscal policy, when you apply painful fiscal consolidation measures, then you have to pay the price. Unfortunately, that price was paid by all citizens, both pensioners and other citizens with reduced salaries, but unfortunately that measure had to last longer, as long as we did not establish a stable state in our budget, and we managed to establish a stable state in our budget last and this year. Now, for the second year in a row, we're recording a fiscal surplus, or we have more resources in the budget, we're making more revenue in the budget than we're spending money on the budget. Some other things have changed in the meantime, and they give reasons for optimism when it comes to pension movements or their growth, rather, in the future. I'll just give you a few parameters that are no secret. These are the data found on the website of the Republic Statistics Office. In the first and second quarter of this year, Serbia's annual GDP growth was 4.9% and 4.8% restrictive. At the same time, international inflation in August is 2.6%. In the second quarter of this year we recorded, I would say, a historical minimum when it comes to unemployment rates or at least a historical minimum according to the data that exists on the website of the Republic Statistics Office. I've looked back 20 years, as far as there are, we've never had a lower unemployment rate, and I'll tell you that in Vojvodina, that rate is only 10%, so even lower than this one at the republican level. At the same time, the employment rate has been highest in the last 15 years, so since 2003 we have never had a higher employment rate. Why is this important and why would pensioners be interested, or why would pensioners be interested in this information? Because high rates of growth mean better budgeting, or more funding in the budget, and therefore more space to increase pensions. When GDP growth rates are significantly higher than inflation, as is the case now, almost double, then there is more room for pensions to increase than if pensions were to be coordinated with the cost of living, which was earlier the case, and we just predicted this law, so we opened up the space for pensions to increase and more. When you have a very low unemployment rate and a high employment rate, this means that budget revenues on this basis, so the contributions that are paid, very high, or that the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund is much better charged than before, will therefore be more stable and secure in the future, thereby reducing its deficit, i.e. less will need to be transferred from budget funds to the PIO Fund. So these are all the assumptions that, with one responsible fiscal policy that we have kept for the past few years and firm, as it is said, are restrictive; however you will, it gives security to pensioners both present and future. Since I have a little more time, I'd like to say just a few more things, although there's already been talk about it, and I believe there will be more words today, about the most important things that change this law, besides what I believe is most important. So, legal assumptions are being made, and we were saying that there was a drastic reduction in the number of temporary pension solutions, which was creating a great uncertainty for our pensioners, but also the rule of great, I'm sorry to say so. A useless job for the PIO Fund. So every few months they had to reissue one of those same solutions. It's a repeat job that's completely unnecessary. In doing so, I say, it created uncertainty for pensioners, because they never knew until they got a final solution to how much their final pension was. It was the first time they waited years for a final solution, and then the final solution turned out, that the final solution turned out to be that their pensions had been overpaid, or that they had to pay back one part of the pensions they had received. This is totally inadmissible for pensioners as well as for their standards, and it is therefore very important that this matter be changed and that we reduce the number of temporary solutions, i.e. to solve this problem permanently and finally in perspective. The good news also exists for persons with a well-fused working experience who, after these, hopefully, will be able to retire and supplement the law with 50 years of life, of course when they meet the other legal requirements that exist, but the good news is for those who have gone to early retirement among them, because they will now be reduced by that trunk, or that distance between the years with which they went into retirement and 50 years old, thus increasing their pensions, which is certainly positive news for them. In a far fairer way, the solution proposed in this law will also address the issue of the collection of pensions for displaced persons and military insurance companies for which there is no complete data on the payment of contributions for all years of the internships they have reportedly. So far, a minimum base has been used for those years, which is not just, and now the formula is changing and changing, of course, to their benefit, their pensions will be bigger in the future. Also, one very important thing, and in line with our digitalisation strategy, increasing competitiveness, and if you want further progress on all the reference lists, such as "Duing Business List", is to create legal assumptions for a simpler electronic exchange of data between the PIO Fund and other state institutions, but also between the PIO Fund and all its users, which include, of course, employers, but also pensioners. At the same time, a large number of forms and the famous M4 form are removed, which will reduce the administration, which will once again reduce the work of the PIO Fund. It is important to reduce the burden of the PIO Fund with unnecessary jobs, therefore, that they focus on jobs that are important, rather than doing repetitive jobs that are completely pointless. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42877	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42878	Thank you, Chairman. Since we've been listening to the praises of this Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, let's go and, of course, I'm going to talk about those bad parts of this law, one thing, let's say, that's nowhere to be said and doesn't fit what the minister is at two o'clock, how much he's told us about this and all the other points of the agenda, but most of this law, he's been talking all excited, as he says, suggesting a law that only brings good news to the pensioners. Well, here's some bad news. You hid, Minister, in Article 45 of this Act, it is that from now on you will be delivering pensions to your home address to charge your pensioners. (Zoran Bojanic): And so far it has been charged... ) Is that okay with "asshole"? It's okay. No problem. So, 426 thousand pensioners receive pensions on hand, bring a postman to home address a year and a half ago and it was planned to be abolished, because it is said to cost them 811 million dinars a year. Now that amount, so about two thousand dinars a year will be paid by pensioners. Pensions brought by the postman most often receive pensioners living in small towns, villages, who do not have near the bank, an ATM, do not know how to use what we consider to be quite normal today, and this small cost to the state I think he had to stay at the PIO Fund. The thing about which the controversy was being conducted, where the minister, in response to our colleague, quoted a letter that corresponds to the Fiscal Council, is also a lie. First, says the minister, we have responded to the Fiscal Council that it is not true that the government is passing laws, but that the laws are passed by the Assembly. And that is, when you read the Constitution, it is. But what is the practice of this home, we MPs know best here. What is the law passed by the Assembly without coming from the Serbian government? But what's interesting is this change now, which, as you yourself said in that answer, you've been continuing what's been going on for four years, which is that you won't coordinate pensions in accordance with Article 80. Pension and disability insurance laws. The former member who defined it, which you are now abolishing, says so - during the application of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, pensions can only be increased in accordance with the law governing the budget system and the law governing the budget. So, the law. Now what do you suggest it stands for? You say - exclusively from Article 80 of this Act, to achieving the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system, pensions will be coordinated, not increased, but harmonised in a manner established by the regulations governing budget and budget systems. So it's not the law, it's the regulations. What are the rules establishing the budget and budget system? (Alexander Martinovic: Well, Law. ) In addition to the law, there can be something else, Dr. Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic: Can't. There can be something else. Yes, because if you wanted to, then you could have written the law as it has been so far. Why did you change the law instead of the law? What does achieving the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system mean? What is it, by law, by law, by constitution, whatever is defined? Where does it say "sustainability"? Is that 11% of GDP? That's not what we're getting at right now. We haven't made it in four years. That's why this introduces arbitration into future pension coordination. That's why we're against pensions being coordinated in the future in this way. We ask that what is written in article 80 be returned, or find some other form. In what the minister read to us here, the history of the changes in laws, and there were different models of alignment only with the rise in prices, so there was a combination between the rise in prices to small and profit growth, and there was a growth in potentially GDP. Find some form that is clear, which is a matter of social consensus, not a decision that will be determined, as you propose here, by the regulations governing the budget and the budget system. Why does it matter? What do we have next? Here, we could hear it today, who listened very carefully. The finance minister said -- now that pensions are passed, he said, now pensions will be higher than pensions paid in October 2014 between 8.8% and 13%. Well, how is it possible for nonlinear pensions to grow? How is that possible? Isn't that illegal? That's what we could interpret here. And they won't grow pensions. Pensions are going to grow all the same, but we have this new, supplemental, monetary supplement on pensions. And that's another thing that makes us think this is bad. There are no clear criteria to whom, how, why is this supplement introduced, in what amount, how much will be paid. There's only one thing about this bill, what is the maximum level of the year, how much can be spent, 0.3% of the total GDP. But what you wrote and what you are proposing today to the Assembly is not a reform of the pension system. It's that grudge and the Fiscal Council, who know how to read what's written in the bill. You could have said – let's go to the minimum pension system, from the budget will be paid at some point in the future only minimum pensions. Anyone who wants a bigger pension, he'll have to do something else to get himself those benefits. But this isn't it. This is a very simple thing, a political thing. For those 61% of the pensioners, as you have said here, which law, which is now being abolished, the Retirement Retirement Act, those 61% of you continue to reward. You are making a division among the pensioners in Serbia to the rich and the poor. I don't know how you got here and you decided that, I don't know, a pension of 25,000, over 25,000 dinars four years ago, and that it should be reduced, and now you seem to be determining that 32,000 is poverty, so we're going to reward those below that, who are receiving pensions less than that. Social policy measures cannot be guided through the pension system in this way. If you want, and what is the obligation of the state, social responsibility, then you should aimly, with clear parameters, support those most vulnerable. That's not what this law does. He brings in that the President of the Republic will appear, to whom it is not under the Constitution a matter in which he can interfere, the President, in this case the Prime Minister, ministers, and then toss out the percentages of how many pensions will at some point be increased in the future, and that no one will know how much and why this is happening. That's why we're against these things written in this law. The only good thing is to abolish, finally, after four years, the Retirement Retirement Act. After four years, though, when I came to this House, you said there would be three and perhaps sooner. Well, here we are, waiting to be not two and a half, as one colleague said, but full four years and less a month. This is how the pension payment arrangements become the main generator of the grey economy in Serbia. What kind of employee with a pension system like this has the motive to pay more than a minimum of his pension insurance? What is his guarantee that he will wait for his pension to be calculated and increased in the future so that it makes sense that he pays more than a minimum? You know very well that many employees in Serbia receive one piece of their earnings by hand, without paying taxes and contributions to the budget. And this and this bill of law will only speed up and give justification to people, moral justification, not to respect the state and its laws. Because this is how the state shows disrespect for them. The construction of the pension system lasted a long time in this country. It started and was introduced on the basis of a great social consensus and we heard how it changed. We heard here that retirement used to be one euro. We heard there used to be a late retirement payment. He told the minister that in 2001 there was a late one-and-a-half pension, farmers 18. It is still until 2012 and today, of course, until today. Retirement wasn't even late for a single moment. There was no possibility that pensions wouldn't pay off. You're going to scare the people here by inventing some ambition, some holes, the end of the world, bankruptcy. That's not what happened. What is not in this law is what we have proposed for the last three years, and that is to make up for the pensioners that were covered by this law what they were taken from them. We heard from the minister that it's 800m euros for these four years. So, half a million pensioners, 1,600 euros were taken from them, each of them much more, someone less, but half a million people, not all the pensioners you thank, but half a million people paid the price of your reforms. And instead of making up for it now, if it's such a great situation, and it's a long story, and I, unfortunately, have 20 minutes, in Serbia's finances and in the budget, then first they need to make up for what they gave them, and then build a mast, gondola, to cover the debts of "The Irons", ER Serbia, all of what we looked at in previous years, to which the ruthless money from the Republic of Serbia's budget was spent. That's why this law cannot have our support. Unfortunately, I can't talk about other laws, I'm going to say something only about amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. The first thing, when I watched what it says in this law and prepared for discussion, is the fact that we have a minister who proposes this law today who is not telling the truth. On 6 April this year, the minister said -- there is no change in the law, no extension, I don't care that several thousand people signed the petition. You said they had until September 30th. You're here today, September 21st, and you're asking for that deadline to be extended by another year. How can we trust you, Minister, when you said three months ago something completely different? Is this the last change? Last year, when we adopted the Law on Higher Education and extended the deadline for a year, you also said there would be no more. You repeated it in April, and here it is now September, where we are, what, a new deadline. That says a lot about this government and its members and how they think they can act so irresponsiblely and talk one day at a time, the other day, like they haven't said anything before. How can we trust you, Minister, that you have nothing to do with the introduction of an e-data in Serbia's schools, you have nothing to do with your former business partner with whom you dated and promoted an electronic diary at his private school, who has now received a job on 1.6m euros to introduce electronic journals by the start of the school year, because the condition in the tender was five days for introduction? The condition that eliminated all other bidders, and not five days passed, but 50 days since the end of the tender, and now we hear – may be electronic logs by the end of the year. Now we need to trust you that you have nothing to do with it. Minister, I don't believe you. I don't even believe that behind the intention of admitting diplomas to anyone who, now, puts that provision into the law, means that a diploma will be recognised to anyone who didn't have the condition to enroll in the proper degree when they were enrolling. What does that mean? Without high school, someone enrolled in college, so you say – we will not have him bearing, not his responsibility, is not responsible if someone has enrolled in master's or doctoral studies before he graduates. The responsibility is the institution that did it. What does that look like? How many fake diplomas are we going to introduce in this way into Serbia's education system? How can you even come up with a proposal like this in the Republic Assembly? You will form a commission that will then have all those who could not enroll in a certain degree of study if, according to the law, they meet all the obligations of the study programme will be recognised as a diploma. I don't know what the study programme is for two hours listening to Minister Djordjevic. Can I get a degree now? Same thing about doctorates, it doesn't matter that he couldn't get a college to enroll someone in doctoral studies because technically something wasn't done. You in your government have people who are openly suspected and there's very strong evidence, that I'm not the one who judges here, that they forged their diplomas, and now we're going to legally cover it and abolize it, and no one is going to get into the measure of things to see whether these PhDs are good or not, whether they're prescribed or not. No, we're not doing that. It's not the Ministry's jurisdiction. It's what the senator's gonna do, it's gonna do this one, it's gonna do that one, and it's gonna last for years. Look at the way these things happen in the world. On the first question expressed, the minister or whoever the high-ranking state is, resigns. That's how the president of Germany resigned. Now the Spanish government has several ministers. And what is the answer in Serbia? Smile in the face. Laughing in the face, boasting. And last thing, this law introduces managers, besides university managers, managers at the Academy of Professional Studies and High Schools. I'm just going to say that in Hungary, managers have become the whip of a government that is disciplined by universities, the whip of the government, and it's obviously the dream of this government to discipline universities and prevent any criticism of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42879	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42880	I see you're prepared to interrupt me, take my word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42881	No, I'm not prepared to take away your word, I'm prepared to wait until you bring the thought to an end and tell you that you've spent the time that belongs to you as president of the parliamentary group. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42882	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, first of all, I'm not someone to hide anything. It's not in the manner of mine or this government. It's the manner of some previous governments that have been hiding things from their people that have been doing, and you've said one thing here, and people who are getting a pension on their hands right now, and this law has not put an end to that possibility, and you also need to know that they've paid 1.4% of what's being paid to them so far. So that nothing has been taken from them, nor added, but they have been left with the right. They can still receive, as you say, that pension on their hands. Never mind. The important thing is that you said it. It's important that someone goes through it and someone who doesn't know maybe believes it all. I think the people of Serbia know. When it comes to raising pensions and what you're saying is whether the regulations or the law, if someone understands what the regulation or the law is, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what the minister says that the Budget Law and the Budgetary System Act are going to be regulated by an increase in pensions and that this National Assembly is going to vote or not, it doesn't matter either. The important thing is that you're saying that it's going to be some regulations that someone out there in the fog is going to bring and no one's going to know. And it's all not true, but it doesn't matter again. All that matters to you is that you said that these are incorrect things, so where they pass by, whether they like those who vote for you. Thank God, they're very few so I don't think it takes us much to tang. I can only promise you, as much as you like it or not, pensions won't grow 0.15% or 1%, pensions will grow 3.4.5.6.7% a year and we'll never forget pensioners, and pensioners can make time and see how good the state is, how great the surplus is, how well we've done and how good they'll be. That is the government's promise, unlike some promises from past governments, they remember very well because they were here when these governments promised.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42883	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42884	I think you've managed to absorb all the yellow press and create some version of your vision of the event. Let me tell you, first of all, it's true that I wasn't originally in favor of being extended two years ago, and a lot of college organizations came to me. Two, three months ago, I consulted the Committee on Education of the Assembly. The moment we started to think about it and explore it, we analyzed how many of these young people there are, I changed my mind in agreement with them. The other day on the assembly board, I began my discussion by reluctantly suggesting this, and my statement was, if you want to quote it to the end – "I won't accept this, but if it is a majority position to do so, I won't jog. I'm gonna sit here where I'm sitting right now and do that part of the job. “ It’s the original version. If it's shorter, I don't understand why it would be a question of whether you have to trust me. I don't teach dogma here. I'm talking about facts, and you're bending them. So the facts are different. My ex-friend doesn't exist. There is a Samsung company that donated Elog in the first year of work to us and we introduced 600 schools without a white bank. Someone did the pilot well, so when Telecom company didn't mention it here, she got a tender, a major state, a serious, most serious company got a tender, and normally to look for a subcontractor, it's a specific job. If the pilot is well done on a third sample, then it is clear that Serbia has a chance to introduce an E-log for small money in less than two years. Croatia has been doing this for five years with over 50m euros in European money. So much for facts now. You can check it all out. If you don't mind, report me to all agencies and courts. This is incorrect that you connect it and explain it in your own way. The responsibility of the facility is greater than the individual. We can't talk about the Arsenijević case because we found out there are many other cases. How can I finish my basics and write down my master's studies? I guess someone on the list asked me for documents. He can't sign himself up. So is the institution, institution or individual responsible? Certainly an institution. I explained very vividly what the procedure looks like when you cancel your doctorate. You're conducting a procedure without legal influence on that case, so the law spoke without this member, and it is proven that the doctorate itself is excellent, but you have in the procedure that he should not have legally entered it. Is it his fault that he signed it himself or that they put it in? We're not saying we're passing the law on one case, but there's a lot of cases like that. I don't see that this is a bad situation for future times, even if it never happened again. At least they'll keep it from happening. When we talk about diplomas, I mentioned the National High Council. If a former Belgrade University lecturer, Kovacevic, says what I quote to you and a number of other people, then we are talking about a technical problem. I can't call the ministers from 2005, 2006, 2007 that they didn't do their part of the job, because there's legal jurisdiction for the regularity of the state's diploma, not the commission. The Commission is the Authority of the National High Council. If I checked with my teams for a year who didn't officially address everything for doctoral studies, they didn't exist as studies, you end up master's degree and you go to the thesis, if you get it, if you have a high average of defending dissertation, that number of people, not the one that KAPK reported to the public before the end of his term, but a lot more people are twice with these graduates doctoral accreditations. That's the living truth. These people have families. They are now placed on a pillar of shame as if they had stolen something, and the technical problem has been created by the state, government and colleges. I'm going back to the responsibility of institutions and institutions, not individuals. Separate that story from false institutions that are not accredited. For your information, I sent a letter this year to put out everyone's applications and I'm sending an inspection. Eighty enlisted. I'll make it public because they didn't do business under legal procedures. Of course you have from that law to this opportunity to have a new body, which is NAT, works and deals with the job who filed the demands, but you don't have a chance to legalize what doesn't exist. Shutting down unaccredited departments and such institutions is a big deal. It never happened and there are large and fines, but you'll be going to get a license. I wish someone had relaxed me from such a job and accepted what I'm doing right now. There are a lot of university professors here, they know what I'm talking about, and you know what's going on in Serbia, and there's even what the state started. If it bothers anyone else, I don't have that kind of problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42885	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42886	Thank you very much. Mr. Djurisic, I am unpleasantly surprised or pleasantly surprised, however you will, by forgetting that you were part of the government in 2008, which has made the decision four times to increase pensions, four times over the course of one year. You brought this up because of some coalition agreement, because of some elections, it wasn't based on the economy, it wasn't based on real parameters, and now you're talking about some real parameters and how something should possibly be done. You, interestingly, have lost your election on the basis of this decision, but you have brought the state into such a situation that we were on the verge of bankruptcy in 2013. We were on the verge of bankruptcy. You had a growth rate, while you were in power, negative over 3%, we now have for the first six months 4.9%. You had a deficit in the budget of 6.6% of GDP, we have a surplus of 1.5%. And the decisions we make are not made because of politics and because of the votes, the decisions we make, we make because of the economy and we make them on a real basis. You said earlier, too, that pensions are increasing, although inflation is increasing more than that, thus confirming pensions. Well, here's your data just from last year. Pensions increased 5%, inflation rate was 3%. In your time, the inflation rate was 11, 12, 13, 14%. I'd like you to get used to these low inflation rates, and we're just because of the low inflation rate, we want in the next period, if the budget gets better, if our economic results are better, that even pensioners have growing pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42887	I thank the ministers. Mr. Djurishic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42888	Thank you. Well, here, first for Minister Djordjevic, since I only have two minutes. I don't care what you're talking about, I'm interested in what's written in the bill of law before us, which is that pensions will be coordinated until they reach the financial sustainability of the PIO system. Pensions will be harmonised in a manner established by the regulations, and so far it has been the laws establishing the budget and budget system. That's what you suggested, and I'm afraid that most of them will adopt it. What's hiding in there? That's the real question. So I don't care what you're talking about here much, because you're not telling the truth, like Sinisha Mali, the finance minister. It speaks of that growth rate, i.e. GDP fell in 2009 from a minus 3.1%, when the global economic crisis caught on track. How was 0.6% in 2010, 1.4% in 2011, and what were the growth rates since you arrived? In six years' time, as long as you're in power, six years' growth is 1.5%, now you're talking this year. What happened last year? What happened in 2014? You will say, "Of course, the flood." There have been floods in other countries, and nowhere has been as much a fall as here. For the seventh year you're in power, and if you said I was part of the government in 2008, I'd like to hear where you were then, what authority were you in then? What did you do, did you take the vineyards, what did you do? That's the question. You can ask me where I've been and what I've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42889	The word has a representative of Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42890	I just want to speak to the MPs, only if we can remember one thing. Remember MP Djurisic's statement. MP Djurisic, I believe that we will meet in this House when we talk about raising pensions, the Budget Law and the Budget System, then I leave it to other MPs to judge who is telling the truth, you or I. It'll be very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42891	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42892	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. Such tones and talks with ministers have not been recorded in the Serbian Parliament recently, and this shows at what level talks can even be held with people who represent the opposition today. When it comes to saying that Serbia is a fictional story, that Serbia was on a cliff and that it was economically meant to be declared either bankruptcy or to implement economic reforms on its own, then they should best hear and read what it is saying9 by their current political leader Dragan Gilas, who said in December 2014 that Serbia is economically on the verge of collapse. Therefore, listen to your new presidents and you will hear where Serbia was, and look at the results and see where Serbia is today. You never thought that this 4% economic growth would ever come, that you could really increase pensions by some formula, but you were doing ad hoc, a little 7%, and then 4%, and so it cost Serbia 70 billion dinars. Now these are your economic measures you've been carrying out at the time. And then you left us to solve these problems and all those debts that you left to serve and care for, not just the pensioners, but all the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42893	Comrade Tomic, it is difficult for me as chairman to predict the tone that MPs will address, as well as what they will talk about. It is up to me to allow MPs to receive a two-minute replica when there is a right. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure with this. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, 104, but I'm allowing Mr. Chairman to be tolerated by the opposition. Namely, replicas are given in the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. The opposition gentleman got it without mentioning the boss or the party or anything. In doing so, he was used falsely, which also led to article 107. So the pensions they paid were paid out of the loan. 50% of the pension fund has been paid from the pension fund. Another 50% was a loan and a sale of social capital. That is a difficult violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. We need to remember that this power, which has now resulted in this alliance of thieves, frauds and Latvians, has sold the entire social capital for several billion euros. This growth they are calling for, again a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, was a product of trade in foreign goods paid for by other people's money, loans and capital sales. I'm not asking for this vote, but listen very carefully to what the opposition colleagues say, because our citizens can also forget, but we must not forget what they've done and what they've done with the alliance of con men, thieves and angry people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42895	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. As far as I can tell, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. I, as the chairman of the 3rd member's position, used my right and the possibility to, in the spirit of tolerance, as you said, allow MP Djurisic to ask certain questions, remove certain ambiguities through dialogue with the proposing representatives. Of course, I can't, as I just said, predict what the MPs will talk about. Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42896	I thank the chairman. I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, because you allow and allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42897	A colleague, Alexic, has already been pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42898	Who ordered it? He pointed out the one who was insulting all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42899	It can't be pointed at the same member twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42900	But you hurt the same member again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42901	You can't point to the same member twice when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure. Few times, a colleague of Rističević pointed to Article 103 and Article 104. Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42902	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, when you mentioned the vineyards earlier, I assume you were referring to some MPs, but you know it better. As far as the results of this government are concerned, in relation to your government, I can read every single figure to you precisely. Since 2008, you have had a budget deficit of 2.6%, 4.4%, 4.6% in 2010, 4.8% in 2011, 6.8% in 2012. For your information, in 2017 we have a surplus in the budget for the first time in history. In 2018, too. That's the result of your government's fiscal policy. The unemployment rate in 2010 is 19.2%, in 2011 23%, in 2012, 23.9%, and we are now at 11.9%, Mr Đurisic. Gross domestic product 2009 -3.1, 2010. In the year 0.6, 2011 1,4, 2012 -1, 2016 in 2.8, 2017 in 1,9, 2018 in 4,9 Mr Đurišić. This is an example of responsible economic policy. It is an example of how far Serbia is going forward and it is an example of how some things can be changed if you are engaged in the interests of the state and the citizens of this country, and not with your particular interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42903	Thank you, Minister. Marko Djurisic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42904	I think the minister mentioned me directly. We can, and I'm sorry we don't have time, a lot of these numbers to pollute. Here, you said that inflation in 2017 was 3%, and the increase in pensions at the beginning of 2018 was 5% Let's look at the inflation rate in 2014 2.9%, 2015 1.9%, 2016 1.2% and these 3%. For those four years, the suspension of pension increases in accordance with Article 80 has been suspended. The PIO Fund Act, it represents 9.2% for these four years. Pensions with increase in 2015 1.2%, 1.25%, 1.5% in 2016 and this 5% is 7.9%. So, if the law were applied for these four years, pensions would be bigger than you now say they will be in October, pensions that will be paid in October 2018. It's a clear economic mathematics and a clear indicator of what this government has been doing. You took from a number of people, now you won't pay them back. You spend that money on bachanals, on masts, on fountains, on not knowing what else. Mr. Minister, why didn't you say that in these six years public debt has increased from 15 billion to nearly 24 billion, let me not round it up. It was at one point and up to 25, now it's 24 billion. It was below 50%, now it's 60%. You're saying it used to be 75%. Well, who was the moment of 2014 when it was quoted here, I don't know which statement, who was in the government in 2014?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42905	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The violation of Rules of Procedure Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42906	Mr. 107th Chairman, the question of the dignity of the National Assembly, which must certainly be related to the need to speak truth in this room. To tell the truth, what it was, the whole truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. We were just hearing about some math. It's been a while. You know, when someone here in this room says it's total growth for the last, as he said, five or six years, one-and-a-half, so it's all just not true. The same man, of course, who was now making a calculation here, said that total inflation in five years is something below 10%, and that's probably trying to compare it to 11%, or 12% in just a year. Inflation in a year, of course, in their great time, that Gilas, that Tadic, that Jeremic, these other Obradovic and their business partners, tried to compare it. However, although this is, of course, even more inconclusive than what Mr. Culibrk often does, I'm surprised he didn't consult, so let's just say, the literature of this Mr. Culibrk's newspaper. They calculated the amount of cumulative growth, you know what they said? Here, I'll read it to you, it came out the other day, it came out at the NIN on September 13th, it was just recently, it said – since the government supported by SNS, Serbia's GDP increased by 11%. At that point, they were counting on it. Today it's over 12%, 12.5%, they didn't count on it to be better than it was predicted. But 12% to declare it 1.5%, so it's completely unserious. When we talk about debt, when we talk about measures that have led to something being temporarily reduced, it all goes directly to the cheek, it all goes directly to the soul. These Đilas, Jeremic, Tadic and other Obradovic, of course, we do not forget them, who have made the disaster their own country, with which the Fiscal Council agrees, and they themselves in previous statements...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42907	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42908	... These people, if they want, I'm ending Mr. Chairman, to make up for anything, Wednesday or settle it, let them do it from their toe-to-to-wall pocket of millions of euros, and about the cost of the citizens of this country. That would be only fair if they cared about honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42909	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, do you want the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? No, thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42910	Thank you, Chairman. I would point out the violation of Article 108(1) which clearly states that the session of the National Assembly is being held by the old National Assembly President, in this case you as chairman and that you should not apply double standards. When the MPs of the opposition report to indicate that they are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, then they are not allowed to do so, because it is said that someone has already mentioned that member of the Rules of Procedure, and when someone from the authorities reports and calls on the same member of the Rules of Procedure as someone before him, that is when he gets the right to speak. What does that mean? This means that you are not objective, that means that you are not parliamentary and that you are giving greater rights to the MPs of the government than to the MPs of the opposition. It simply disrupts the basic function where you are and which is why you are placed on it. So that's one very complex question, I ask you to finally introduce order on this matter. It's the same to you, to give you an example, as when the representatives of the authorities say the yellow thieves destroyed this country, which I agree with, but these yellow thieves are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and here it is Mr. Sinisha Mali... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42911	I appreciate your suggestion. Of course, I'll try to deny you. You have pointed out that it has already been pointed out on the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 107, which is so, but you have forgotten that a colleague, Marko Djurisic, contacted the replica, and that after his speech, Mr Orlic sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure. So, I've totally done it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think I've broken it in this case and certainly have an objective relationship with all MPs no matter what political party they belong to. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yes, thank you. The word is Miljan Damjanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42912	Mr. Chairman, you have injured Article 27(2) because this is evident that we are completely out of the agenda and that we are no longer talking about what's on the agenda here. This has already been seen a hundred times, so that Mr. Orlic rises, with nothing caused by the mention of Boško Obradovic, a double dog, and one and the other is mentored by the US ambassador. This one was brought to the Assembly in 2016, brought to power in 2012. To all of this, the minister speaks to these people and explains whether these are our ex-boyfriends and who are they. They were all in the same parties DS, DSS, G17, now making left and right sides. You keep talking on this left side is the opposition. No, it's this NATO opposition. We, the real opposition, here represent the views of our citizens and will not allow us to be involved in this debate. This is all agreed on by an ordinary circus between former members of the same parties, who are the same mentors, who are attacked daily by television. Why didn't they arrest each other when they were able to if they were so many thieves? Please return the order to the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42913	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. I don't know who's hitting on a double dog or anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42914	Here, listen to what they're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42915	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. The word is Dr. Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42916	Article 103, paragraph 8, which gives you, Mr. Chairman, the right to give people who do not know what they will do with themselves and, accordingly, do not refer responsibly to the time they have to discuss, shorten that time for further discussion in two minutes. I have reported first of all in view of what MP Bosko Obradovic did, however, it would not be bad for you to apply this to those who have decided to let us know how much they still yearn and suffer for the boards of directors and supervisors of Dragan Dilas, so they came forward. Go ahead and apply them. As for MP Obradovic, since he obviously does not participate in the work of the session and while he is sitting here, he does not need the time to discuss it, it will only be easier for him, among other things, not to be ashamed like that before, to reduce that time in two minutes, as the Rules of Procedure gives you the opportunity. Let's cut this short so that someone doesn't accuse me of hitting double dogs, even the next time Mr. Obradovic turns to those words and mentions yellow thieves, ask him to show his understanding and respect for Mr. Lutovac, who sits next to him every night in the stands. I'm sure he didn't mean to offend him like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42917	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Vladimir Orlic: No. Thank you. We're going back to work. The word has Professor Dr. Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42918	The Honorable Chairman, honored guests, respected MPs, so I don't repeat it, but it's always done, I don't see any logic to join the agenda in this way and it's really very difficult to conduct a thought discussion about so many different points of which some are not meaningless, even some of them are very important. I'll try to be quite brief. Minister Djordjevic spoke of a whole series of international agreements and I understand that he is authorised by the government, the government can empower any member to represent its interests here and to speak of anything, it is not disputed. But I still think when it comes to these agreements, it was necessary to be foreign minister, it belongs to him, his portfolio. As far as I know, he's on a business trip, not in the country, I can figure it out. I'll tell you why. By the way, you've been talking for almost two hours, I'm not against you talking very comprehensively about each of these agreements, that's even good, but it would be better if that text you've read to all of us would be a better conversation, because anyone could read what it says and then have, if I could say so, hopefully a better conversation. I'm going back to what I said about why a foreign minister would be needed. I don't think our public knows, and probably most of the people here, I'm not sure you, I don't really know, maybe, when we got the agreement to abolish the Schengen, we signed one agreement, an agreement saying we'd consult with the Schengen countries about any visa waivers made by the Republic of Serbia. This is where Kirkiz mentions it, etc. No one is against the fact that the more countries cancel visas, the easier people travel, touristic, economic, family, whatever. So it's not a dispute. The country's sovereignty is not disputed either. But we signed it. The issue opened very strongly to Europe when we lifted visas for Iran. I do not believe that the EU will go far enough to suspend this agreement, but there are countries that have warned Serbia that it directly violates the agreement it has accepted, to consult Schengen countries once it has abolished visas from some third countries. So, at least to consult, to hear their opinion. No one disputed the sovereignty of the Serbian state, but she accepted the obligation. I think that example, which Minister Dacic spoke very lapidally of, didn't look back on him very much, caused a lot of anxiety because, as you know, this migrant crisis has raised a question from which countries people and how they come into Europe. As you know, our region is Europe. The issue has been raised, Minister Ljajic gave a rather reasonable answer, said that the relatively small number of Iranians who remained, who sought this asylum, a very small number, had brought out a very low figure, assumed that not many of them had tried illegally to extend to Europe. Independently, Europe's reaction, which is obviously hypersensitive to the immigration crisis, especially some countries, has been strong. That's why I needed a minister. When these agreements here are being signed by Serbia, once again, I'm not against it, then you should answer whether it's in line with one of our own, there was an Asian country here, is that harmonised? If it's consistent, then that's fine. Question for Minister Sarčević. Minister, I disagree with you. You've set an example of not punishing someone who, in this case, let's take this particular example, it's a irrelevant personality, it's a postgraduate degree, and it's not a graduate. You know what? You were a student. I was a student. In ancient times the first man to decide to punish, he froze the prices, here, imagine miracles, was Emperor Diocletian, it's a historical fact. His first thought was to freeze prices, but then he passed a law that was very interesting. He not only punished sellers who sell at higher prices, but also punished buyers who buy at those prices. You tell us, it's the institution's fault. I agree with you, her responsibility is primary. But it's my fault and whoever did it. You can't say – he doesn't have any... He did one unfair thing. If there's a thief in the economy, if there's a thief, there's, I'm sorry, in education, even in higher education. He had to know, this person who goes on a bigger calling, writes in postgraduate, master's degree, master's studies, doctorate, that he doesn't meet the requirements, and he does it consciously. I don't know why we'd do that. Of course, I understand your logic. You say - he's a valid doctorate, master's work done, master's work, what we're going to do now. But he went one unfair way. If you want my answer, to most institutions of old, respected, we have universities of some in Europe, Bologna, Prague and others that are hundreds of years old literally, it would have been annulled because it was used unfairly. That's one way, I'm not saying that you're doing it on purpose, I'm doing your motive, he's not evil, but we're constantly eroding moral principles in higher education. An example of the German president is listed here. Here, I will set an example of the Hungarian president, and the one whom Orban has chosen, with them the president elects parliament. Otherwise he doctored sports, some sports branch, it was proven that he prescribed a third of it, I remembered, I found it interesting, by some Romanian also expert, science doctor, professor at their Faculty of Physical Culture, and he resigned immediately. In other words, in the world when a question of the relevance of diplomas is raised, people resign to certain functions. It's not about what I was talking about right now. People are making themselves up, and that erosion is something that I would hardly call otherwise than the moral principles of this society. So, you say -- he's a doctor, a doctorate is a valid, master. I believe the commission has assessed it, but it's originally been unfairly working. I was at respected universities, when a student prescribes, he gets kicked out of college, trust me, he gets kicked out of college. At the big universities professor that the question, out of the O.R., I told my students, they always looked at me. You know as well as we do, sit as a police officer and monitor. You can't do that. It is believed in honesty, that these people are future, because they are the most educated people in one society and they will have the most important functions in the economy and everything. That's why I think maybe there was some other decision to be made here. Now you will ask me – what and what is the legal basis? I don't know, and I can't answer you, but I'm desperate for the erosion of moral principles that you're not personally responsible for, but at some point we're going to have to start sanctioning it. Let me say something about this famous law. It is good, of course, that this temporary restriction is lifted, the economy is stronger, obviously, or the budget is being filled. But let's just say, I'm not a lawyer, here's a way of speaking, we've heard from MPs, a heavy demagogy, people are being paid for a pension fund, it's not charity, gentlemen, pensions are people deserve. We've come to two absurdities. The first is to say that large pensions, which by the way are not large, even by some of our criteria, but they are largely relative to the general standard of the population and the lowest pensions, that they should be taken and given, they were more singled out. Then really make a decision to single out everyone, if you're going to go to retirement fighting. Don't make any mistake about what I said here. I am for the minimum pension to be maintained and to increase and it is the most common. A very small number of people in Serbia have high pensions, but you can't suggest a Chinese system here, that those who were more single have the right, they singled out, I'm old by the way, so I've singled out for housing and this sort of thing, of course, I've never won an apartment in my life. It's been a while. But it's more than singled out. Then you say, "No, you can't." Well, it's not charity. Now Minister Sinisha Mali is data accurate, but you know, Mr Minister, we now have to go back to 1993 when she was one of the biggest inflations in Europe's history, you're a younger man, so I don't know if you remember it at all, I remember perfectly well, when the pensioners had one euro, or if you'll excuse the German brand, when people were starving, when the truck was coming to Terrace with fresh bread and throwing bread, so the pensioners beat them and took that bread. So if we're going back in time, and since 1990 democracy and the multi-party system since 1990 are supposed to be here, don't keep fixing for 2000, I can get back to you in the '90s, so let's see what the pensions were and how much inflation was, and what did people actually get? So calling on the past makes sense if something's talking about the present. You say, and of course everyone in this country knows that pensions are spent, those funds. The Norwegian state may be one of the biggest investors in the world today, because they tell me, Norwegians, this oil won't last long in the North Sea and the Norwegian state, we're not such a people, just our Natalie is not like that. They invest, invest, say they would literally, they would tell me, that our descendants would one day have a lot of money invested in these government bonds in large companies, so that they had money to pay for pensions, etc. We've listed it all and it's not your responsibility, it's the responsibility of generations of politicians since 1990, first of all, during the war it's been written down, destroyed, etc. But then you should say it openly – you have created one system. You know, it reminds me of that old joke when the boy comes to Batajnica, and there's only a little bit of money, and he says, "Give me some mixed candy, and he says, "Here, you two candies, mix 'em all you want." You say: We cannot pay what we do not have. I agree. We can't take down the budget, because someone said the pension had to be this big. But here it's still quite plainly said, no matter what it's verbally, legally, entrenched, dimmed or not, but it's a little hidden. You say, in fact, your pensions will be as good as they are if they're better. Now, you're entering something that, you can call yourself now, so here's the previous years pensions varying, inflation eating, no one's taken into account coordination realistically, etc. But you're entering a element that I would call an element of certain uncertainty. From the point of view of the economy and the budget and those who run this country, it is logical, but the views of someone who is retired, it brings a certain amount of uncertainty to him. He used to have a pension, she was harmonised, you say he'd stay that way, so not quite. He will actually be able to get into a situation where there will be no such increases. You're constantly tying him to the state of the economy. I don't mind, but it's one confession that we don't really have any more funds, you said yourself that the budget was taken, I know it well, it was done in 2001, that same story was. I understand what you said and that's let's say, let's say, economic necessity, but there's something going on in that whole pension system that most pensioners are going to find very difficult to accept. Here it is said, people are retired easily disabled. A lot of people are retired. You know what, but some of us have been working fairly for 40 years, and it's all 40 years apart, and then you come, someone tells me – a big pension! Based on what he says, if my pension is earned. So, pensioners aren't beggars, they're people who've worked their whole lives. They're not to blame for the irresponsible authorities, so don't insult them, there's a lot of them, maybe mine or mine, although mine is at least responsible for it because she found everything destroyed, and then she picked up that system, paid off Dafina, paid off the jezda, that we paid back everything, even Jezda's savings, and he didn't even have permission from the People's Bank to work, Dafina had, even Jezda's savings was paid back, and that we would be moral to the people, because the regime fired that bank to work, otherwise we could pay no one the Jedi that was less than Dafina. So we were trying to make the state feel responsible. You say the state is responsible, I'm done. Well, it is, but on the other hand you brought in... It's not me, you're going to say for political reasons, I'm the last person to do it, but the pensioner won't be quite sure what his pension will actually be, because he's going to have to look at the uninterrupted state of the budget, the state to say economic development, and it brings something that in other countries really doesn't exist in this way. You have found one solution that is probably economical logical, which, let's say, is somehow consistent with some economic logic of your government, but I have to say I feel, as I would say, I don't feel particularly comfortable, and especially when I hear someone has too much retirement. And who's to say it's too big a pension? On what basis did he determine that? What criterion? You know, in China, they were all wearing the same uniforms, from Mao Cedung, so I asked, you know, the Chinese had a uniform in the army, and there was no act. Well, then I asked a Chinese man, well, I was a soldier, so how do you know? Well, we know the rank. They had no rank at all, they had the same uniforms all Chinese, officers. It's a system that we can't defend and that system sounds very nice and it's a very demagogue message to the citizens, well, well, we'll all have the same pensions, but we weren't in the same position when we worked. We didn't have the same responsibilities at work, we didn't have the same education, but once again I'm done, I agree that minimum pensions are such that people can live on, for that I did, but don't do the rest now. It's said quite demagogue, it's the law of four years ago, we'll take most of the pensions. Well, you know what, you didn't tell me at the beginning when I started working, and then I'll be paying, and then I'll tell the college, so pay a little. Don't make any payments because then it doesn't matter what pensions, when you're done working time, with how much you've been paying. So let's not pretend that people still didn't invest in this fund that is today stricken, which people really aren't responsible for, but are responsible for those who led the conflicting governments, not every one, but very many of them on a rather irresponsible policy compared to pensioners because, of course, pensioners are a very large electoral body. That's so much from me. Once again, Minister Sarčević should still be sanctioned by those who have very consciously lied and cheated, not just the university who did it. As Diocletian said wisely, it is not only the one who raises prices but also the one who buys at those prices. In other words, if the institution of higher education is guilty, but the individual is also guilty and perhaps should, as I say, now is the time to make some changes in the law. It would probably be a criminal law, he can regulate it. Guiltyly, it says that this kind of fraud that has consequences because it gets a better job, a bigger salary, becomes a boss, and in fact he lied, forged, to literally reward himself. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42919	I have to delete the list, but I wrote on paper all of you who signed up to give your word to the ministers to answer. The first word is Mr. Djordjevic, then Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42920	First, I'd like to answer for this for a long time, as you say the reference that exists. You know, I'm the fourth time in this year in the Assembly. The first time I came here I tried to be like you said, short and concise, and then there was criticism by the opposition why I was short and concise. I've decided to accept sound criticism, and since then I've always been very concise and detailed in the arguments, so don't mind me, I'd better be detailed than be brief, so I can be criticized on that side. As for Iran, Iran is a friendly country of Serbia and we certainly take care of when, and under what conditions, we give someone visa-free regime, but what matters when you say it, and you said it yourself and you realized that Mr. Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, is not here, he is out of the country, and surely he would be here to explain these laws, there's no reason to be different. The fact is that we in the government are talking about it and all the members of the government are familiar with everything that's going on and what's going on. I don't need any special preparation to tell you what it is, we don't have phone sessions. None since 2012 has been held without meeting and not having had a quorum. We talked about this problem, too, but I want to convince you that Serbia is talking and communicating with the EU, adheres to all agreements with them, Serbia is a reliable partner and we had no criticism on that side that we did something that was not in line with some agreement. They would never allow it primarily, thus jeopardizing our country and everything that we have agreed with them. So as far as that goes, I think we've solved this misunderstanding about Iran and about this over-definition. As far as too many pensions are concerned, just one thing to tell you, none of us ministers spoke on the subject, nor criticized that there exists in the country of large and small pensions, it's Mr. Seselj. So I'm assuming that you've given him this criticism and I think you should discuss it with him, because that's Mr. Seselj's attitude, so I don't want to get involved and discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42921	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42922	I'll just take a minute. Dear Professor. Stepach, I share your opinion. And I asked similar questions to the legal teams when we talked about this. Given that you're more right, but that we don't have a solution smarter than this, we've still defined that the institution is responsible, because you know that we have 10 private universities, so just type in, so you'll do the doctorate and the rest, so later on, you'll mean, I've really seen a lot of things, and we've started a really open fight against all of it, because, first of all, we've started with what we started as a state, and it takes a lot more order and a lot of decades, because that's what's been going on. Also, we could discuss what procedures I don't know about. I think that these are more standards for the bodies of accreditation and for the National Council for High to solve and such issues, as well as many other issues – speed, naming in calling and whatever. You know, to produce for yourself what it's all about, so I couldn't agree more with you. You're right when you say there wasn't a maybe smarter solution to get rid of this law, probably in someone else. Sure, I'll at least try to find a connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42923	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42924	Dear Presidents, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, we have today a set of extremely important drafts of the law, and I will discuss in my discussion the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, while my fellow MPs in the later debate will look back on other drafts of the law. What I want to do at first is to commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia, both this current and the previous, for the results achieved, above all, in fiscal consolidation, as well as for the significant economic and economic recovery of the state. What we need to find is the fact that from day one we have had a socially responsible government, socially responsible especially for the poorest, those who live in the most difficult conditions, those who needed the help of the state. We must not forget that at a time when all the countries in our environment were reducing social protection funds, in our budget, this item was not reduced by any single dinar, none of the rights were abolished, no payment was delayed, and the lowest earnings and pensions were protected from the reduced to which it had to come to prevent the bankruptcy of the country to which the former regime had led. This proposed law on changes and additions is necessary, above all, because of the need to further edit the PIO system in the context of the start-up reform of the pension system. The main objective of the current reform is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system that will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. The reform has so far been implemented in several phases and the measures implemented were mostly restrictive, especially measures from 2015, but as restrictive as they were, time has shown that they were necessary. When we talk about restrictive measures introduced in the previous period, we must mention that the age limit for retirement has been raised for both sexes, the conditions for achieving disability pension rights have been strengthened, early retirement pensions have been introduced with a permanent reduction in pension levels, conditions for achieving family pension rights, pension growth policy is consistent with the economic opportunities of the budget, pension administration reform measures have been implemented to reduce administrative costs and measures have been taken for more effective control and payment of contributions to PIO. All these measures, though restrictive, have yielded positive results primarily seen through the halting of deficit growth and the reduction of donations to cover deficits from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The way of mastering the previous regime and buying social peace, and we can freely say buying votes in the elections through unrealistic pension increases, among other things, has led to deficits in the operations of the PIO Fund, so in 2012, almost 50% of the pension commitments were touched from the budget, while today it is about 30%, which best speaks of the effect of the measures taken. In addition to these measures, the key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies primarily in the development of the country, new investment and new employment, which will improve the relationship between the number of insurance workers and the number of pensioners, since the system is financed by the principle of solidarity between generations, i.e. that current employees finance pensioners. What we must admit is that restrictive measures have led to the deterioration of the social status of pensioners and it is up to us to correct it now. Because of all of this, today we have before us a bill in which, freely speaking, no provision is restrictive, i.e. Not a single provision is diminished, nor the conditions for the exercise of any right under the law are tightened. The question arises why are these measures proposed? Well, first of all, because during the implementation of the current law, the following issues were specifically raised – the way in which early retirement pensions were calculated in insurance companies with an increased duration of insurance, the creation of conditions for reducing the number of temporary pension solutions, the harmonisation of pensions in conditions of application of the measures to achieve the financial sustainability of the PIO system and the termination of the rules in temporary management of pension payment methods, the protection of the economic situation of pensioners with the lowest pensions, the issue of suspending a third pension for self-insured insurance companies, the issues of parent records under public administration reform and other important issues for the smooth functioning of the pension system. Of the proposed measures that should be the answer to the identified questions, i.e. observed problems, what is at this point for our citizens, especially pensioners, perhaps most importantly, is the fact that due to the positive effects of fiscal consolidation, as well as the positive results in the economy and economy, the need to further reduce pensions ended at 30 September 2018, which means that the October pension, which is the pension that will be paid in November, will be paid without reduction, i.e. that the basis for the pension payment for October 2018 and its further harmonisation makes the pension paid for the month of October 2014 harmonised, i.e. increased in accordance with the applicable rules. In addition, the proposed law provides that the future harmonisation of pensions will be established until the financial sustainability of the pension system is achieved in accordance with the rules governing the budget and the budget system, and the institution of one-off financial assistance is introduced by predicting that funds from the Fund can be extremely used to pay out financial assistance to pensioners and cash compensation when such assistance is needed by a large number of government users, taking into account the balance sheet options of the PIO fund. The remaining significant changes and additions to the Law relate to a fairer calculation of the amount of early retirement pension for insurance workers who account for insurance with an increased duration, etc. A certified internship so that the foames for these insurance companies are counted against a reduced age limit for each specific insurance company with a well-defined internship, protection of the essence of the right to reduce the age limit to up to 50 years of life for insurance workers working or working on jobs with a maximum degree of increase in the insurance rate from 12 to 18 months and preventing possible abuses, and in order to reduce the number of temporary solutions of the Republic Fund for PIO is introduced in the manner of calculating the last year's insurance standing. In addition, the duration of temporary solutions in the event of the absence of all necessary data for the adoption of a final solution is introduced. The provisions relating to parent records, inter alia, also comply with the Law on the central register of compulsory social security, as well as the definition of the basis for the acquisition of data from other authorities and organisations, which, to some extent, works in practice. In order to implement reforms and public administrations and to reduce administrative burdens, this law removes a total of 17 forms, making it much easier for employers to work. Due to all the above-mentioned Parliamentary Group, the Socialist-National Peasants' Party-United Peasants' Party Movement will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42925	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42926	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected government guests, respected fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's extraordinary session, we have pensions that are a key social economic issue, because we have over 1.7 million pensioners, of whom unfortunately about 700,000 receive a pension of less than 25,000 dinars, which is extremely low and unworthy of age life. We've been recording the demographic trend of ageing the population for a long time. We have a longer life span that extends the time of retirement, which, with the trend of emigrating young people, raises the average age of the population and further reduces the number of pensioners for which the growing number of less-paid workers should earn that pension. Our population's down. We're estimated to be at least 10% less in 10 years. The number of newborns is below average. The OSCE estimates that from the brain drains, we will suffer damages of about nine billion euros as technological and scientific laggings in innovation. We have a problem with youth unemployment that is twice as big as the general. Old and experienced leave the labour market, young people do not gain work experience and do not replace them. The quality of education, unfortunately, does not give us the preconditions of economic growth, except in the information technology sector, whose contribution, unfortunately, is still small and far away, has gone through any Estonian experiences. The new jobs will not strengthen the pension fund, as they are low-skilled, low-paid and, by the way, subsidized jobs, whose contributions from such low profits to the PIO Fund are small. All of this is a perspective facing our pension system in the years and decades to come. All technical, administrative, operational improvements prescribed by the proposed amendments and additions of the Law are not disputed, we support this, but we tend to express a skepticism regarding their implementation. Almost all failed IT projects, digitisation of public administrations and everything else, fall for implementation, not projecting itself. Management these jobs will be a problem. Training of users, communicating with them, defining user requirements, presenting business processes in administration and engineers, which will design and digitise and digitise these business processes. Of course, it'll be indicative if these jobs show up again with one of those same companies. A few words about the negative opinion of the Fiscal Council, which proposed the withdrawal of this law. On the one hand, the DRI's observation that the benefits of a work experience have been devised, because it's determined according to status and position, not according to the conditions and weight of the work, it's okay, it's respected, but we consider the 18-month deadline too long to coordinate. Of course, during the afternoon, the fiscal council has put the biggest objections to the abolition of the pension harmonisation formula, and the regulation to comply with the rules governing the budget and the budget system until the prescribed conditions for the financial sustainability of the pension system are obtained anywhere. The introduction of ad hoc cash aid that is prescribed not to exceed 0.3% of GDP, that on last year's GDP, according to our account, is somewhere around 110m euros or 12.8 billion dinars, annually. It's a nice measure, but the fiscal council has objected to its selectivity. If space is created in the budget, what are we going to do with children, what about young people, what about education, what about all the other social groups and all the other functions of our society that need budget assistance? The fiscal council also objected that this is an irresponsible social policy, because one's social threat is assessed only on the basis of pensions, not on the basis of the overall material status of the household. Someone may have a small pension, but live in a household with someone who has quite solid incomes, or valuable assets from which they draw alternative incomes. This is a violation of the technical assumptions on which the system rests, which prescribe that pensions are directly related to paid contributions, and these are the principles of actuarial mathematics on which each pension system rests. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that in the coming period the government will not raise the limit of 0.3% of GDP to further disrupt the actuarial technical bases of the pension system, until it completely shuts them down and completely assumes the discretionary right to decide on pension levels as a whole. The main problem here is that predictability is being violated, and thus the legal certainty of the pension system, and that this financial sustainability of the pension system as a criterion for government decision-making is not explicitly prescribed. Technically, financial sustainability is achieved when the contributions entered into the Fund and the contributions coming out of the Fund are balanced, but we will never achieve it, practically. It is suggested that essentially the formula, historically speaking, we had such situations, a formula, a combined formula that reconciles tensions with price growth to little, growth in profit and GDP growth is essentially something that we know was coming across social support and it is a pity that it is so easily rejected. We allege that reforms are being implemented with the aim of increasing the legal security of pensioners. This is explicitly so stated in the explanation, but there is no legal certainty if it is possible to pass a special law which changes the calculation methodology to an arbitrary period of time, if the technical professional basis for calculating pensions is abolished and the pensions are reduced by a discretionary decision of the Government. It's not legal security. The legal certainty of the pension system implies precise mathematics based on payment of contributions to how much pension I can get from what year. What we have is not the rule of law. The rule of law is the rule of law, not the rule of men, even though these people were in power, because they are transient, they are exchangeable, as much as they did not like, and the laws if they are good, they remain. Another interesting thing was the fiscal council, which is that we're actually taking such a big step back, that we went back to a time before 1922 when the then law established a pension system by reputation for the practice of the countries of continental Europe. I'll be free to actually interpret how we do this important element of our country and how we actually have the state. The state is not a system in which, in advance, the precisely defined rules by which you made a general social contract with the state, you get your money, but our country is something that we had in the 19th century where some government itself decides when, by some criteria, it will give money to when it is desired and when it is estimated to be convenient. So he says, three thousand for the lady, two thousand for the gentleman, and the kid to report to work in the municipality on Monday. I don't mean the minister here, but I mean the lady's kid who got the job by someone's decision, and we don't know whose money it was that they split up there. It's probably the money of us all taxpayers. We are practically reduced to this pension system to countries of North Africa and the Middle East, and we have had a pension system since 1922 with real European fluids. As for the reduction of pensions that we have had under special law over the past four years, I think it will prove wrong to estimate that pensioners are a social group that, because of its uncontested high patriotic feelings, will easily be processed and will not object when they are set aside in assets, or when their pensions as a form of property are reduced, partly taken away. The pensioner's "Independence" union announced the case to Strasbourg, and I urge the state to prevent judicial costs by reaching a social agreement with pensioners' unions on how to repay pensions, as otherwise the pensioner's union "Independence" demanded that the abolition of this special law, which reduced pensions for four years, be followed by the adoption of a special law. So, it's to be specifically regulated by law. We have submitted this special law to the National Assembly today. So, we have passed a law proposing that all of these be equal to all the reduced pensions for the entire duration of the Interim Method of Retirement Act be declared public debt of the Republic of Serbia, that all of these are due for the past period from 1 January 2019 to 3 % a year, to be reduced to 3 % a year on a 3 % interest basis in 2019, and then to carry out a five-year depreciation bond emission with a maturity of 5 years and an advance interest rate of 3% a year that would be paid to pensioners in ten six months of war, ending on 31 December 2023. It's a model that's known in our society. The old foreign savings were returned to the old foreign savings, and we recently passed a law here to restore the bonds of old foreign currency savings to the citizens of the former Yugoslavia. I think the pensioners will understand how this type of property that is being bonded works, that they will realize that through that kind of property they are returning to the wars in five years of borrowed money, with all the corresponding 3% interest per year to preserve the time value of money, because 100 euros taken to the pensioner in December 2014 is not worth 100 euros today, worth more. The price of that money is that interest. We think this model is fiscally relieved, stretched out. We suggest we think about whether it's acceptable, if it's not to see why. Maybe five years is short, maybe it's too much of a budget burden, so let's see, maybe six, maybe seven, maybe ten years. We appreciate that it's not more than 90 billion, or about 18 billion a year, if it's five years old. It's very, very, as I would say, overrated, it seems to us, according to the data we've been dealing with. Let the state find space in the budget through various savings. For God's sake, we have 18 billion budgeted for fines and penals and damages suffered by the third parties by the state authorities. In July this year, the government decided to pay out 400m from the budget reserve to the courts to compensate those citizens who were denied the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Come on, let's reform the judiciary not to be late, that the right to trial within a reasonable period is not denied to anyone, so that the state doesn't have to pay him compensation for it. Over 87 billion subsidies, okay, there's agriculture, that's a thing that's not touching, but it can also be rationalized. "Er Serbia", here I read "Insider" series about how all the money was dropped, by which the money was rented by "Er Bass" planes four times the maintenance hour, etc. All the invoices, it's all there. We subsidize them, greasy, 120m euros, 130m euros. At the end of the line, when the pension system is reformed and digitised, I believe that it will be able to demonstrate precisely any reduction war for each pensioner, for each month the law on the temporary way of accounting for pensions, that in each war, it will be able to show a proportion of the last months from the date of reduction until 1 January 2019, accounting for interest at a rate of 3% per year, and that it will create one file to write how much each pensioner on this basis asks the state to make a bond emission based on that file. This is beautifully transmitted to the Central Securities of Value Register, which all fine electronically registers and enrolls every pensioner in a reduced amount and a pensioner with that bond can have as much as any other property. He can, if he needs money to sell it, get a little less money discounted, because before he gets there, of course, he can wait for the first war, the second one, so in a row until the tenth and finally enough to get an adequate economic just, inaccessible amount of money that the state has taken from him and used for four years of this temporary way of calculating pensions. Finally, when we talk about the rule of law, yesterday we heard the position of the representatives of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund on the return of reduced pensions and the government's intention to repay them, because the representatives of the PIO Fund explicitly called for Article 4. The law on the temporary way of determining pensions and said in Article 4 – payment is considered final. It's good that it's clearly said yesterday, that the pensioners can hear it clearly, so you can't call these measures and these amendments of the law by returning pensions, because you're actually just stopping taking them away, but so far you're not paying back, not even a penny. The opinion of the Constitutional Court of 24 September 2014 should be carefully read on the day of the earlier session at which the Constitutional Court concluded the examination of the constitutionality of the Law on the provisional method of calculating pensions. The Constitutional Court then took the view that the pension is property, and that its reduction is the same as someone taking away a room in your apartment, or a kitchen, or a bathroom. He needs it temporarily, so he takes it and then says, "It's considered final, I won't return it." The Constitutional Court also found that the law was not unconstitutional by two precise terms: that the reduction of pensions was temporary, that was why this incursion of property was acceptable to them, and within the framework of the Constitution, explicitly they wrote it, could be seen a statement on the Constitutional Court website, that was the first condition, therefore a temporary; and that this reduction of pensioners' assets was carried out under the conditions of the crisis. They specifically said what kind of crisis – endangering the regularity of pension payments. If the government boasts of economic achievements, then we conclude that there are no more crisis conditions. The very act of ending the law on the temporary way of calculating pensions suggests that the government considers that the crisis conditions have ceased to exist, and there is no longer a crisis justification for reducing pensions. It's okay that it continues to stop, but it won't be temporary but it'll gain permanent character if it doesn't come back and in that case this will all be unconstitutional. That's why we're going to insist on returning pensions taken under the law that we've proposed today, with all the interest we consider to be fair to the pensioners, because we think most of them are the attitude that they've borrowed, but they haven't donated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42927	Thank you, Rijeka has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42928	Respected citizens of Serbia who follow the direct transmission of this truly significant session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and above all our respected oldest citizens, pensioners, who are directly, so to speak, interested in this topic, allow me to begin this address with a single quote and a return to the beginning of this topic. "Whatever reforms we are taking, whatever happens, dear friends, keep in mind one thing I guarantee you – pensioners will be the last to have anyone's rights to touch in the country, better off our backs to take down everything they can and there's nothing to take away from the pensioners," Aleksandar Vukic said on TV on March 10th 2014 on "Pink". So, the beginning of this story is what was the pre-election promise of the SNS in 2014 ahead of the snap parliamentary elections, and what happened only a few months after that. Here, let's hear what is at one of the SNS pre-election rallys ahead of these extraordinary parliamentary elections on this subject said by the then and current SNS President Aleksandar Vukic. Monday, 10 March 2014, the source "Beta" – SNS President Aleksandar Vucic said he guaranteed that acquired pensioners' rights would not be reduced. He said it would not happen regardless of what reforms the new Serbian government will take. Better off from our coat of arms than to touch the acquired rights of pensioners – Vukic said at a gathering in the country hall "Pinky". Vukic told international institutions' representatives that they could be saved in the budget, pay attention, by reducing the number of official travels or cars, by cutting public sector wages, by six thousand dinars, but that they cannot be made in the area of pensions, but I do not allow pensions to be touched. If we touched those rights, they would not only create a problem for the pensioners, but also for the state. In the end, Vukic invited pensioners, as the most responsible part of the population to 16. Martha went to the vote and voted for the SNS, which many of them did, and then only a few months after these obviously false, pre-election promises came a harsh reality, the formation of a new government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic, who violates all his pre-election promises and reduces pensions by 10%. Now, respected citizens of Serbia, tell me if these people who treat pensioners like this can trust anything more. Does what the SNS suggests simply make any sense that we listen to when it's lies naked, naked propaganda and naked pre-election false promises? These are quotes, this is true, and this can never be challenged by any of you, because you know well that you lied to your pensioners and our oldest citizens. The point of the story is something else. Yes, there was a need for fiscal stabilisation. Yes, the financing of the Serbian state was needed. That's not controversial. It's a dispute to sort out a country's finances. Is it by borrowing the state another 10 billion, how much did you do it? Are you going to cut wages and pensions like you did? Are you going to raise taxes, taxes and excise duties and burden additional citizens of Serbia, as you have done? Is it by being the biggest fuel price in all of Europe, like you made it? Or, in some, say, maybe another way? Besides, I'd just like to point out that the pensioners you've reduced five thousand dinars to, you owe them 240,000 dinars, what you've taken from them for these four years. To whom you have reduced 10,000 dinars, you owe him 480,000 dinars, how much you've robbed him for these four years. If, say, they have two pensioners in one home that you robbed for 10,000 dinars a month, you owe them 960,000 dinars, how much you've taken from them for these four years. Now, look, what I told you before, and now I'm going to do it again, could have been different even then and today. You could have dragged your hand into some other pockets, say, tycoon pockets, where taxes are not paid, as in the case of Zeljko Mitrovica, owner of private TV "Pink", which serves exclusively for the regime's propaganda of the ruling party. You could, say, charge a lot of others taxes where they're not charged. You could've reduced the work to black and introduced it into legal flows. You could have passed a law on the origin of the property, another one of your false pre-election promises, which you promised seven years ago and never brought. So you could, say, question all these so-called. The yellow thieves and the origin of their property. And why don't you do it? Well, because yellow thieves are now in the Serbian Progressive Party. Because in your ranks there are both Sinisa Mali and Goran Vesic and many others whose origin of property should be examined. That's why you don't pass the law on the investigation of the origin of the property. What we need to realize here is that you retired from the oldest population in Serbia for the full four years robbed 850m euros. What'd you break all of that for? You have violated, above all, the Constitution, Article 20, which guarantees that the pension is property acquired, and Article 21, which discriminates against our oldest citizens because you take away what they have earned, or, let's say, Article 58, which speaks of the peaceful enjoyment of age, acquired property rights and all that you have endangered them. Not to mention inflation, the cost of living and everything that's happened in the last few years and you've abolished, let's not forget that, and synchronising pensions on a regular annual level with the cost of living. So, you double-robbed the pensioners -- you cut them 10%, plus you abolished the possibility of these pensions being bigger by keeping them in line at an annual level with the cost of living. And now, after four years of robbery, you've decided to correct what you've done, contrary to your pre-election promises, against your president's oaths that he'll never hit the pensioners, and the first thing he's done is hit the pensioners, so much can be trusted by his word, that today we'll have a situation to end. Be careful, let's remind ourselves of what this law was called – the Law on the temporary way of paying off pensions. Look, you've temporarily robbed your oldest citizens for four years. And now, after four years of robbery, you're not prepared to admit that this country is obliged to make up for what they've been deprived of for these four years, these 850m euros. When and how, it's a subject we can talk about. If it can't be in one budget year, it can be in five or ten budget years. If he can't do it in money, he can do it in some other way. But you can't get out of your mind that what you robbed them has to come back. And when you mentioned that famous "The Alliance for Serbia", which makes up the Dveri, I would like to exactly quote the point of the 16th programme platform "The Alliance for Serbia" in 30 points, which is now talking about the protection of acquired rights of citizens and the ban on their abolition, as well as the return of anti-constitutional pensions to citizens at the acquired level, with compensation for all previous reductions. So this is what the Serbian Movement of the Dvora promises and what, unlike Alexander Vukic, you can believe, because we hold our word, unlike the leading representatives of the SNS. You came prepared to criticise the Fiscal Council, but that's interesting. When the Fiscal Council says something in your favor, then you quote it, and when the Fiscal Council says something against your decisions, then there's something wrong with the Fiscal Council. Let's see what the fiscal council has said. He suggests withdrawing the amendment and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. You will not tell the citizens of Serbia, that the Fiscal Council is proposing that you withdraw this bill. And to tell you that the possibility of the government deciding to coordinate pensions until the financial sustainability of the system in practice means giving the government permanent jurisdiction to discreetly decide on pension coordination. So what you've been doing for four years now, you intend to keep doing this legal solution, that you decide when you're going to cut, when you're going to increase your pensions. What makes you think that's right? You'll say it's not the government, that the Assembly needs to make that decision. No, it's Alexander Vukic, the one who once lied to the pensioners, who, through the government, continues to lie to the pensioners, and with the help of the congregation majority, you all raise your hands to the bells, to continue to lie to the pensioners. So that's the problem we're facing here. What I want to point out here, to realize how seriously we've been preparing for this topic, is the fact that we have foreseen these two key things through our amendment solutions. The first is that they have to make up for the kidnapped parts of the pension in the last four years. The second is that no one here should depend on the government of the Republic of Serbia and the will of the parliamentary majority whether pensions will be reduced or increased each year, as you propose by this law, but that the provision on mandatory harmonisation of pensions with the cost of life of that year, which you redeploy, or re-relatify and question. We have also provided for funds that can return what you robbed the pensioners and enable a stable and long-term secure pension system. Here are a few of these measures that I want to share with the citizens of Serbia, to see that we are not only here to criticise, but we are here and we are proposing concrete solutions to the improvement of our oldest citizens. One - better tax charge, which is currently charged by 60%. The assessment of experts is that the state does not charge over four billion euros in taxes, which is only 5% of this amount enough to enforce the law as we propose. Translation of workers from working on black into legal flows. Also, the percentage of experts is that more than 500,000 workers are working on black in Serbia and that the PIO Fund and the Health Insurance Fund, based only on payments on a minimum basis, would receive annually or in this case lose hundreds of millions of euros. Stopping crime on customs, selling excise goods and everything else you didn't do, like you didn't even pass a law on the origin of all politicians and tycoons...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42929	Ambassador, will you just enlighten me a little bit what the writer wanted to say, where are we now from this 33rd point?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42930	Am I under the impression that you interrupted me or I didn't get it right?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42931	I didn't even understand what you're talking about right now and that it's about dots.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42932	Serbian citizens understand perfectly what I'm talking about, Madam Chairman. There's no reason to interrupt me. I understand how uncomfortable it is when I remind you of your pre-election promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42933	When you talk, I'm fine. That's what the election results say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42934	Can I continue or are you forbidding my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42935	No, I don't. At least. I mean, do I forbid it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42936	Then I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42937	But I would ask you, however, that parliament would be one serious representative body and fulfil its functions to focus a little on the agenda points and it's quite fine. (Bosko Obradovic: If you give me your word, maybe I could. There was a problem with the minister reading. I see you're reading persistently, but I would ask you to read the parts relating to the agenda points. That's it. I'll give you back this minute. It's not a problem. There was no reason to shut down. Then you'll suspect me. (Marian Risticevic throws.) Well, Gilas can't write.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42938	Dear Chairman, thank you for allowing me to speak at all. I assume it's a charity on your part. I can understand that you don't like that there's an opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it exists and you can't interrupt me and you're suggesting to me what I'm supposed to talk about, because I'm going to talk about what I want to talk about. So, it's my obligation to criticise this law and history that we've come into this situation, after four years, to abolish the Law on the temporary way of paying off pensions, against the pre-election promise of the SNS. So, in that sense, I want to say that here we have actually three problems why the Serbian Movement Group of MPs will not support these legal changes. The first problem is you don't give the pensioners back what you've taken from them for the last four years. Another problem is not to return the possibility of regular pension coordination with the cost of living, but to hand over the ruling majority of the government and the Assembly to decide whether to reduce or potentially increase at the annual level of pensions. And under three, you don't bring a minimum pension that has to be much bigger in order for citizens of Serbia who are socially at risk to survive in these difficult conditions at all. There is another problem that I would like to open up briefly now, and it is about increasing the age limit and going to retirement, where it should actually reduce that age limit so that young people are employed and that they stay in this country, not leaving this country as is the present case. And, of course, the Pension Fund, which should be completely different structured and returned to whom the former PIO property was built in this country, and then from that property, such as healing spas or a number of other things built by the PIO Fund, practically ensure the stability, security and long-term functioning of that fund. And in other words, I can understand the SNS, because it's proven to be a violation of its pre-election promises. She stops thinking of the fiscal council anyway, and we've seen that. But I can't understand the PUPS, which should probably protect the interests of the pensioners, not work against the interests of the pensioners as it does from the establishment of this party. I can't understand an SPS, which has been playing left-handed for 30 years and never does anything for workers, pensioners, socially endangered population categories. So here is the fundamental question that you lie to more and how long do you think you can lie to Serbian citizens, false pre-election promises and empty stories? After all, the important question here is what we mentioned about students who, unfortunately, cannot solve their positions, regardless of whether the old students are before Bologna, were the bolognas from those first experimental years when they were the test rabbits of a catastrophic reform of education. But, Mr. Minister, it is my duty to inform you with their memos that I have received and which, in fact, in several such memos, which I can also deliver to you to look, are just suggesting and asking you to do something first of all for the old students, if it is possible that this deadline to complete college is extended, not for one but for two years, because it is thousands of students who, not everyone, so to speak, may have been bad students or irresponsible students, many have worked for that time, many have formed their families, many have had health or some other life problems, we should have an understanding of all this. Especially when I say that, we're talking about the bolognas, especially those first bolognas, who, like this in one address to you, so I'm going to put it on their behalf. So, I'm speaking to you on behalf of the students who have been abandoned and forgotten again, and these are the Bolons. The problem arises in 2016 with endless requests and writing to the Committee on Education and the Assembly. The situation is that we still have students who are one step closer to graduation and now we ask you once again to help them this time, as you do to students enrolled under the old program. We will state the reasons, students of the Bologna programme are experimental rabbits, which was the conclusion of the Committee at a session held in October 2016. There is no need for a special amendment to the law for the patients, but only a recommendation from the ministry. The Faculty, in accordance with its autonomy, has the right to continue its studies with the recommendation. For example, it's been two years before. Facultys agree that it is more acceptable for them to continue their studies and stress that only a memo is needed, as well as the previous years and the passing of exams for these students is not particularly organised because the remaining items remain in the plan and programme and students are taking them together with students of the current year, who are listening to the subject at the moment. In this regard, I would like to call for a member of the 101st New Law on Higher Education, which says in point 2 that students have the right to timely and accurate information on issues relating to studies. Today, Mr. Secretary, on September 21st, you well know that in the coming days and weeks, the deadlines, October one or October two, however it works, they still don't have information about whether they have any rights, what rights, and can it be so different from college to college, whether it depends on the goodwill of the university or in this country there's some order and order, some minister who probably cares about his students and who protects them as much as possible? So, with this speech, I wanted to point out these few facts that I actually don't think you're going to let them be heard on the big media, as at this point in the big media there's no voice of the opposition at all, and it's enough to prove that no opposition leader has been on any Belgrade television with a national frequency for eight months. So what kind of democracy in which the opposition's voice cannot be heard, that's the real question? So here I'm asking you a question - did you cheat on the pensioners when you told them there would never be a pension cut? Yeah, you tricked the pensioners and you brazenly, openly, looking them in the eyes, most embarrassingly possible. Since when did you do it under the pretext of taking care of finance, why didn't you hit the tycoons so bravely? Why didn't you hit so bravely on the side of the banks that were tearing the skin off the back of Serbian citizens? But the easiest thing was, they hit on the old, the poor, and in that sense they couldn't face you more seriously. I am also calling here for all those protests by the Retired Union of Retired Soldiers of Serbia, and I thank them for the various materials that I have received from them so that we can propose these amendments and present this criticism to this government. So the Dvori are here with pensioners who don't trust Alexander Vukic, who know he's fooled them so many times so far, who remember your lies and pre-election promises well and who just can't now... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42939	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42940	Article 107 has been injured. The representative of this Latvian fascist act of this new coalition on Serbia's political scene has brought out so many lies and lies that I can't say all that in two minutes. A man who is in a coalition with Serbia's largest-proven thieves, Dusan Shanet Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic, DS, says today that Aleksandar Vukic has no support for pensioners and has no support for Serbian citizens. If anyone in Serbia today enjoys unreserved support almost plebiscite support, it is Aleksandar Vucic and it is SNS. I am asking on behalf of these citizens of this Ljotic, of this fascist, of a man who has done nothing else in his life, except for being a spokesman for the Chapanese Library, where Velimir Ilic, one of the DOS leaders, hired him to ask his coalition partners, primarily his boss Dragan Gilas and his coalition partners, Shanet Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic, of these yellow thieves to return the money they have taken from Serbian citizens since 5 October 2000. Because if it hadn't been for his boss, Dragan Gilas, if it hadn't been for his partner, Shanet Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic, who only received 200,000 euros in one tranche from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin, the Serbian government wouldn't have had to take heavy reforms in 2014. And this Ljotic is not supposed to come back in 2014 and remind us of what Aleksandar Vukic was saying, but should return to 2008 when his boss Dragan Gilas increased pensions by borrowing the state of Serbia to keep DS in power most of the time, but the people said in 2012 and sent them into history.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42941	I believe I did not hurt Article 107, because I warned the MP that he was not false and that he was talking about the subject, because he insulted the ministers and said by name and last name that they were thieves and others. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42942	I would like to thank the President. Article 27 concerning Article 108 Too much tolerance for a speaker who spoke before his colleagues Martinovic, too much tolerance for something that requires a zero degree of tolerance. The Socialist Party of Serbia is proud to participate in the government and its idea of social justice, precisely by participating in the government of the Republic of Serbia, is living in the best way possible. Proud of being satisfied with 5,000 employees in Smederev, proud to be employed by tens of thousands of newly employed people across the Republic of Serbia, we are confident soon, and hundreds of thousands of new employees, so the question arises – what did the party president, who spoke before his counterpart Martinovic, do for his country of Serbia, to whom only the populist is called? What did he do in terms of bringing investment, employment, improving population standards, except that he spat on that country, in that state, by insulting the president of the state, the government of the state, the highest-ranking state? That is true, it also confirms the fact that we have not heard a single word of condemnation against discrimination against the most brutal insult, the worst possible vulgarity and rudeness, said by a representative of this speaking man, insulting the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Where's the one word of condemnation for everything that's said in the worst possible way? No, besides that, we could only hear something else, which we have been listening to for a long time, which is inappropriate, unfounded criticism and lies at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42943	Thank you. You're asking to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of these two members? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42944	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising an article. 103 and 106. Mr. Obradovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was not holding the topic. I commend the chairman who tolerated it. I'm always that the rights of the opposition are respected even above the line. But, in doing so, someone who violates these rights and claims that pensioners have been robbed, that we are thieves, etc., and comes from a group I call the Union of Thieves and cheaters, has brutally offended and the dignity of the National Assembly, all present MPs, and especially pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, contribution to PIO 26%. In terms of employees, which we found, there was one to one, which means that only 26% of the average personal income could be paid from the PIO fund, which is about 100 euros somewhere. The government did, however, and the average pension was 200 euros, so it was made out of excises, etc., which he avoids paying on gasoline and the like. Also, if it hadn't been for the reign of his red-beard pirate boss, if it hadn't been for 400,000 people out of work, today the pension funds would have been far more full and far less had to be saved. He forgot that money had to be earned, he forgot that his boss had an asset worth 24 million, which he acquired in a market game when he was in public office under allegations. During that period, 400,000 people were out of work. That 24 million is 120,000 pensions. It totalled 100m euros, which is 500,000 pensions can be paid out of 100m euros that it has garnered or as the people say -- Lavio Dragan Gilas. With that, I ask the future, Madam Chairman, that from time to time, you warn the previous speaker a little more often not to insult both us and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42945	Thank you. The word is Dragan Vesovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42946	Thank you, Chairman. I would point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 109 of paragraphs 5 and 6 where it is said that a warning should be made to a MP who directly addresses another MP, we had a direct address by last name, and if he uses curses and offensive expressions. So, about two months ago when someone on this side of the hall, to be picturesque, and not from the Serbian Dvora Movement, told colleagues on the other side of the hall that they were fascists, for two hours it took a polemic, and then it was said there were no fascists here, there were two anti-fascist blocks, and it was abuse, insult. Now we, for who knows which time we listen specifically to the other side of Serbia's Dvora Movement that we are fascists. I really ask you, as chairman, to prevent this kind of expression or, here I am at my disposal, to explain to me by what basis I am as a member of the Serbian Chamber of Fascists movement? Here, I'm ready to be explained, and the apropo origin of the property and who stole it, so we insist and just now you've heard Mr. Obradovic's exposure, to finally examine how he stole it and to bring such people to justice. I don't know who's got the stick and carrots, who's got the systems, and I don't know why you don't do it anymore, but don't insult or explain it to me, here, I'm ready and I'm ready to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42947	Thank you. I'm asking the Ministers and the others, no one to answer, I can't figure out who's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. All you have to do is report to the Rules of Procedure, and I promise everyone will get their word. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42948	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Article 27 has been injured, of course, regarding article 107 relating to dignity, but I refer to article 27. Something terrible has been said here that can also be dangerous in political discourse. Namely, the speaker who caused this salvo of all the injuries of the Rules of Procedure said, quoting their own program in which they otherwise have one of the dominant points of illustration, I guess they have nothing to offer for long but to cut people, hang and shoot. But anyway, we've heard something amazing here, and it's that they're, I don't know, gonna keep, I don't know, rights acquired, and then they're gonna make up for it, so I don't know where they're gonna take everything. Those are dangerous sentences. Is that what they're telling us they're gonna put us back in charge? To raise credits to the unconscious that this country would cramp, like his coalition partners used to do? If we want, dear Mrs. Gojkovic, to speak here without insulting the people, the one who dared and had the courage to report to his account that he had 25m euros, 25m euros as to how he earned it, shamed him, and that's all he reported, he's going to tell us today that he's going to pay the pensioners back, and he's rich in gum. We laughed at Marko Milosevic when we talked about the crates, he got rich on gum and said he had 25m euros. They want to come back today, they want to ruin the country. Now, we'll never let them do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42949	Wait a minute, I'll tell the ministers my word. Alexandra Tomic asked for a replica half an hour ago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42950	I thank the chairman. Mr. Bosko Obradovic teaches us here the economic parameters on which we essentially need to bring down Serbia's total budget, that if we can give over 20% of the pension budget and if we have to and charge the state for another 10 billion euros and that's not the problem, that's what was done by 2012. What's even more dangerous is the attempt to bring the Fiscal Council to the public with an assessment of the picture of how we don't want to apply certain formulas, and we actually have money, or we have more than 4.5% growth and we have more than 11% GDP growth and we simply don't want to do it now, but we will essentially increase some government acts as much pensions as we want. First of all, that is not true, it does not say anywhere that there are discretionary rights of the government and do not deceive Serbian citizens with your cheap political pamphlets. Because what Serbian citizens need to know is that it is only responsible economic policy and has led to the situation that we can increase pensions and that pensioners get what is coming to them, depending on the success of the state through the budget, through a surplus that has been made in the last three years. So, never before has Serbia made more income than has spent. Only the last three years of economic reforms and Mr. Aleksandar Vucic is the only politician, not only on the Serbian scene, but also in the countries of the region and the EU who came out and told the Serbian citizens what awaits us unless we implement those reforms. That is why Serbian citizens have twice supported Mr. Vukic in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42951	Thank you, MPs. Let's give the ministers a chance to answer. Here you go, Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42952	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, between 2008 and 2013, Dragan Gilas led Belgrade City. As a result of his devastating government, we had and were left with over 20% of the budget deficit, over 1.2 billion euros in debts, many of which are for pregnant women and maternity mothers. We remember Dragan Gilas in the Big Brother's house because he took away the pioneer town of our children, the children of Belgrade and began to reality the programmes in Serbia. We know him by charging his parents with kindergartens more than the price was prescribed and now the City of Belgrade pays 20, 30, 40m euros from the budget, claims by those parents that Dragan Gilas charged more to kindergartens for children who went to them. Now, this is due to the work of Dragan Gilas in Belgrade City, and in the meantime, he admitted that he had made himself rich and that his property was more than 25m euros. So while the City of Belgrade was poor, while debts accumulated, it also increased its personal wealth. At the level of the Republic of Serbia at this time, you have an example of responsible economic policy, a policy that is not driven by politics, nor by personal wealth, but only by economic logic and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and our children who are to inherit us. Our economy's growth rate for the first six months is 4.9%. We're at the top of Europe on that point. Our budget is stable and unlike the deficits that had previous government, we have a surplus for the third year in a row, we take care of every dinar we make and every dinar we spend in our budget. We are talking about the participation of public debt in GDP, which decreases year after year. We are talking about the number of unemployed, where in the second quarter of this year we had 11.9% of the unemployed in Serbia, which is still a lot and we are fighting for every new job, but it is more than twice as much as when the previous government led Serbia and when there were 23, 24, 25 unemployment rates. Now, that's the difference between us and them, and that's an example of how the government of the Republic of Serbia is having a responsible economic policy right now, and that's why I say with a lot of rights that pensions in Serbia are going to be bigger and bigger, and that every year the growth rates of our economy are going to be bigger and bigger, and that our salaries are also going to be bigger and bigger, and we're going to see that we provide every child with a safe and bright future in our Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42953	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42954	Thank you. I'll just take a few sentences. It is very important that the National Assembly, as well as citizens, knows that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has fantastic relations with all students, around 260,000, and state and private and professional studies. If not known, we have managed to reconcile the two wings of SKONUS and that it is now a unique student movement. Once a week, I see them all over the universities and receive them. So I didn't make any decisions until I consulted them. As you know, putting in a new category of borons this same procedure would go on forever. The students themselves know that. We've certainly already said that we're going to send letters to all the higher education institutions, and I think most of them are going to listen to it again. So it's not soulless, that the minister doesn't know and doesn't like his students. You have to ask them that. On the other hand, we are in the process of making a common new law, which will be here in the Assembly, which I will have to defend on their behalf, which is the new law on student organisation, where we really need to show all the higher education institutions why they exist and what is at the heart of that system, certainly a student. So it follows that we are certainly engaged in the financing of higher education, but students have never played a more visible role, a more visible relationship. I've visited more of their camps during the summer and I really don't have any problem with myself, I'm just taking the opportunity to inform the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42955	Thank you. Minister Djordjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42956	Thank you. I recognized a spokesman for the Fiscal Council, then two, and now I've heard a third. Since you don't have the patience to listen to our entire debate and everything we're talking about, as well as Mr. Djuric coming out, I'm going to tell you that I've already explained that what the Fiscal Council says is not true. So that I wouldn't bother the auditorium, since I can see that Mr. Djuric came out, that he doesn't care about the answer, I'll deliver, if you need me, this whole answer written by the Fiscal Council, so you can see why and with the right arguments that what they said is not true and that it's flat-rate, which, of course, we didn't expect from the Fiscal Council, but we didn't expect them to have portfolios here. I'm glad you're following our president's statements, writing it down, and that's commendable. I don't know what the idea was, whether we should commend you to him, say you follow him. If that was an idea, I will commend you and say that Mr. Obradovic, here, follows and not only follows, but also writes wise thoughts, so that is something commendable and I think that is one advance in you. Second, what's a harsh reality? The harsh reality today is that Serbia is in surplus, that we have bigger salaries, that we have bigger pensions, that we have little inflation and that we have a stable course. It's a cruel reality, and it's not a cruel reality what you say. Last I recognized, it was that this Alliance for Serbia, as I can see, as Mr. Djilas and Jeremic have smelled some money, but there is no money here, they lost the elections in 2012, they lost the elections in 2014, they lost the 2016 elections, they will lose every next election, because Serbian citizens know their policy and because Serbian citizens recognize what they are offering. What I'm saying to you, I can say that and make sure that's how it's gonna be. Pensions won't increase 0.15%, 1%, as you suggest. The pensions are going to increase 4.5.6% and we want the pensions to be nominally higher. It's my message to you, and we don't accept that pensions line up 1% a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42957	I only ask MPs and ministers to pay attention to one fact. So, the Alliance for Serbia is something we need to clear up. There are no MPs in this assembly of parliament. So, the Alliance with Serbia has never participated in any elections and there is no such political group here, there are MPs who participated in the elections in the lists, we have a list of who has passed, who has not passed, so I ask you not to mention political options here or I don't know what, but as if there are their MPs in parliament. I will not allow it, it is the end of the electoral will of Serbian citizens. At the time that we went to the elections, when I was elected president of parliament, it was clear which parliamentary groups there were and who the parliamentary group belonged to. So don't confuse the citizens of Serbia that some Alliance for Serbia, although I don't know what it is, has any representatives in parliament, or Gilas, or Vuk Jeremic are not political options that are parliamentary. So I ask you to only talk about them as extraparliamentary political options that may someday participate in the elections, perhaps not, my God, we will see. Please, there are DS and others here, those who participated in the elections, not to enlighten this people, because we're going to lead them astray, they're going to think that there are their representatives here. They don't exist right now. We'll see after some choices. So I'm asking you to go back on the subject and not waste valuable time, because we have important laws here and hear who's in favor and who's against it, not to deal with someone who has a desire to enter parliament one day. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. The word has Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42958	I thank the chairman. I had to wait a little while, because I don't know if the replicas are still going on, because they've been going on for a long time, and I'm going to thank you right now and I'm going to try to really get back to the topic of this session because it seems to me that we've gotten very far from the topic. I think the topics are very important and they need a lot to talk about. After a long period of time, it seems to me, certainly two and a half months without a session, this Assembly is called to the agenda, unfortunately I can't skip this topic, and that's the way the Assembly works, I can't wait for days when I might sometimes skip, but it can't happen today, because after two and a half months of not having a session of the Assembly, of course, which makes it more logical than an emergency procedure, we get a agenda of 33 points of the agenda that are normally connected to one item of the agenda. They are so diverse, so wide and really loved to hear first of all any explanation, which the Rules of Procedure requires, that someone explains to me why these points are connected into one item of the agenda and what their similarity is. I don't think that's possible, and what I'm talking about in the first place is that the Rules of Procedure states that in that case, it explains the similarity of what these points of the agenda are related to. The minister who touched most of the agenda points, not all, did not explain, but the minister who mostly spoke about the first law on the agenda, and touched most of the other points, spoke for two hours, and we need 20 minutes to touch all these points of the agenda. When I saw what I should be talking about in that case, I realized that I should, of course, talk about the amendment bill and the additions to the PIO Act, so I should talk about some more laws, so I should talk about agreements. I ask my colleagues to focus on the topics to confirm the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships, so the bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Information, let's say the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the Interruption of Visas, and let's say cooperation in the area of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, and the Republic of San Marino, and the Republic of Tunisia, etc. I was a little scared that citizens who would listen to one 15-minute exposure to all of this might think that something was wrong with me when I was talking about all of this at once. So, first of all, I am investing in a protest in the way this Assembly works, to repeat it for who knows which time and when we see a session called this way, I fully understand citizens who often tell us that we should not give legitimacy to such a congregation, that we should not participate in the work of such a congregation. However, there is one problem, the legitimacy of this Assembly does not give me or any of my colleagues, the legitimacy of this Assembly is just being given to the elections and the citizens who voted in the elections, and we can only hope that in some future the Assembly will be waiting for us to work according to the rules, not according to our own opinion. I would like to focus now, as my colleagues did anyway, because we don't have the opportunity to search all of this, to focus on these laws that we would single out and which are mostly spoken of, and some are quite spoken of, and some are not, until now, in the debate. First of all, as regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, I would agree with my colleagues that a huge part of the population is affected by these measures and these laws and that they are very important for pensioners, but I have to add something, according to some research, at least as far as I know, pensioners or pensioners make more than one third of the income of most households in Serbia, which means that these measures are extremely important for all Serbian residents. Unfortunately, our incomes are mostly, and I'm talking about most of the population based on pensions, and as far as this law is concerned, of course we can't accept it. We even filed some amendments that we tried to fix this law with. He's got some positive traits, and that's what's gonna end the pension cuts, but there's a lot of talk here, let's just say, about the opinion of the Fiscal Council. They repeat what has already been said, and that is to say that and how gladly we call on the Fiscal Council when it is in our favor, and when it is not, we reject that opinion. I don't think we can say, however, that the Fiscal Council is not competent, that what the Fiscal Council is saying has nothing to do with reality, and in that sense I would really like to read a few sentences because this opinion of the Fiscal Council is very important, and I would say earthquakeous. Thus, the Fiscal Council negatively assesses the proposed legislative changes which, in addition to the suspension of the Law on the temporary reduction of pensions and pension harmonisation formulas, provide the Government with a discretionary opportunity to pay a monetary increase with pension. The proposal to abolish the pension harmonisation formula would jeopardise predictability that characterizes European pension systems, which would degrade Serbia's pension system to the level of the most unstable systems in the countries of North Africa and the Middle East. I think we should seriously consider this. We can refute this opinion, but for a country that constantly looks up to the EU, which is constantly talking. Some of these laws even mention Serbia's entry into the EU. I think we all know that pensioners from the EU are walking in Rome, in Paris, in Venice, in Crete, in Santorini, and we know how our pensioners live. Thus, such a way of regulating pensions cannot possibly be good. I will not enter into the details I said, however, what is not good in this law is that the government has a great opportunity to discreetly dispose of these funds. That's what's not right, and that's what characterizes some of the laws that have been passed lately, as was the law on financial assistance to families with children that I immediately said was very disputable and represents a sword with two blades, and now it's showing up, because we see that they're the hardest hit by, say, families who are employed, women from careers who can no longer get a full salary, etc. What I'm trying to say is that this is the way the government functions tends to be simplified to 3,000 for the missus. So we're going to take something from you systemically, and then we're going to assign you to a spoon when we think and how much we think it should be. It's one way of functioning that shouldn't allow itself any serious state, and let alone those of us who claim to be on the rise, how data is like this or like this, I'm very sorry that the minister doesn't care what I say. So first of all, I think it's important that some general data can't always be a sign of success or failure or a way of life and what we personally experience here, because society is not a figure. Society is individuals, and as I have said, most individuals in our society live extremely badly and will live even worse, because among other things this law implies that pensioners who have recently retired are even worse than those who have previously retired. We can't talk too much about the details in this case, unfortunately, because I already said that we have too little time. However, I would also take the opportunity to look back on the already mentioned Association of Retired Military Unions, which submitted its initiative to the Constitutional Court, but on a very important topic which was launched at that time, which is the return of the funds seized. We believe that these funds must be returned, that it is something that the state must do and that even if it cannot be done in money, that it must be done in some way through any way, let's say, some ways of treatment, etc., but that it must not be allowed not to return these funds. So, this law, that's what I said, there's a lot of inadequacy and we're not going to vote for it. What is also important here, the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education, for example, came into procedure on September 17th, and some public debates on these laws were held a year and a half ago, and now we get them here by emergency procedure. It's not clear to me at all, I'd also like to hear an opinion about it. Now let's talk about this law. For example, I find it interesting to say that there is this law, which I mentioned earlier, and good solutions. I am particularly pleased that the status of lecturers is given attention, because I believe that not only in these cases mentioned in the law, teachers are considered a luxury in Serbia, and this should not happen, but I am not going to be particularly concerned with this topic right now. I find it interesting that, let's say, the minister noticed that this national law that I want to say, which is a bill on professions of special interest to the Republic of Serbia and conditions for their implementation, even concerns the independence of the university's autonomy. This law is a black hole in the legislation, and it has been highly negatively thought of, among other things, by the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Law Chamber of Serbia and many others who are truly appalled by such legal solutions. This is a vague law and completely non-transparent, for which the alleged sublaw will even be passed until Serbia's entry into the EU, etc. So it's all very, very undefined. And the problem is that these laws also give extremely broad powers to both the government and the ministry, and what can happen, and it is our duty to warn ourselves of such a thing, that simply in agreement and consultation with the government and the ministries, there will happen to be enormous employment of people who we do not even know will have the necessary qualifications, that here the government and the ministry themselves will determine who they want to employ. What will be the qualification of these people? A certain institution can be consulted in that case, and it doesn't have to consult, what does that mean? This means that this law even violates Article 72. The constitution, because the ministry here is literally taking over part of the authority of higher education and scientific institutions and declares in their name, let's say, what the professions of the persons are responsible for certain tasks to do and which they are not. That's totally inadmissible. The Anti-Corruption Agency also spoke about it and said that the ministries could propose new professions of particular interest, for example, if their performance is of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia, and no criteria are envisaged to determine where there is a particular interest in their performance, which is essential when deciding whether a profession should be included among professors of particular interest. So, with so many arbitrary provisions, we can only guess and guess who and what qualifications they will be employed in, which is exactly the opposite of all the laws. Even Serbia's Bar Association suggests that exactly the way it contains the drafts proposed indicates that certain professions are discriminated against, their importance for the protection of human rights and freedoms is minimised, and judicial authority as a special branch of government that should be independent of further weakness. So, a particular problem in the application of this law that we don't know how it will apply at all because it is terribly vague and vague, untransparent, and some of the acts by which it is supposed to be implemented are passed in such a way and the law itself can be applied in such a way that there is even a weakness of the judicial authority that we already know in what kind of problem in Serbia. And we know what the problem of the Serbia judiciary is, which, unfortunately, nobody's talking about here. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42959	Thank you. Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42960	President-in-Office, distinguished ministers, Mrs Kalanovic, with associates, co-workers and colleagues, I, on behalf of PUPS, who has been here for 10 years, so that we are a party that exists and is known to exist, and that all 10 years just now protects the interests of the pensioners and that is how we formed in 2005, I will make very short history because it is necessary, on 10 May, because he threatened genocide on pensioners. At the time, Minister Lalovic, with a law passed on to the PIO, made his own statement that pensions were expected to fall, but no one expected them to fall so much. At that point, pensions were below 40%, and that's why it was necessary to do something, and that's why pensioners simply joined together. I'm not a pensioner, but I joined them that same year. What I'd like to remind myself of, which is that we, we were never enough to make our own decisions, but it was always enough for us to hear each other and to be able to make suggestions. In 2008, we had an emergency pension coordination proposal, and we are behind it, and that was the necessary measure, whatever the consequences, that was necessary for the pensioner generation to survive. And it's about pensioners, then shown by the PUPS. As in 2014, with this number of MPs, we were given a chance, and if we were not necessarily ruling foreigners, that we could take part of the responsibility and we took it, supporting the concept of fiscal consolidation and whatever we were talking about here now, those measures were necessary. We had to get out and simply stabilise our finances and what the PUPS insisted on back then, which is that, of course, measures are temporary character, it is to come to pensions being orderly, or orderly, safe and of course to monitor economic development. That is why we are now truly pleased to have in front of us a new law that was inevitable, a bill of law, so that we can abolish the previous one that referred to a temporary pension reduction. On the other hand, I have to say that what we have to point out and praise about this government, which has been done before, which, of course, means a lot to the pensioners. What we think from PUPS, and I think it is necessary now to draw attention to it, is something that at some point Minister Djordjevic also drew attention to, which is that there are fewer and fewer people in Serbia who are working and there will be fewer and fewer. That's the problem we need to discuss here right now. We shouldn't go back to who he is, when and what he did. History will show it. After all, there are so many services that need to be officially dealt with, if they have to deal with it, and let's try to find a permanent solution. I agree, Professor Korać mentioned some uncertainty now caused by this change in the law, that the budget will determine the funds that will be planned for pensions. It is true that now, simply, whether anxiety is introduced consciously, but it is true that pensioners comment on the benches – yes, there were certain numbers there, whether it will be or not? Well, even when we had the safe numbers, we dropped our pensions. So, we don't doubt the good will of the government, the minister, the legislator, that pensions will grow, but what we need to do is that when this debate is over, which will take a week, no matter how long, and after which we will pass the law that is before us, that the next day we start to think about a serious new law, reform of the pension system, but the real one, which can't be solved in three months, in five months. This law before us now was necessary in order to be able to start paying off new pensions, but we must and we, as a parliamentary group, have already made a proposal in February of this year and invited absolutely all relevant factors of society and the Fiscal Council and the opposition and all ruling parties and trade unions to come and put in place. Here, we have a suggestion how. I'm not saying it's the best solution at all, but it's the fact that something has to be done. Technology's progressing so much. Now he was "Flying Davosh" in China. We all read in the paper a few days ago, which are professions that will disappear. I run "The Post of Serbia" and one of the professions is postmen, but someone will have to pay the contributions. As long as there are people who work, we will be able, but there will be more and more automation and less physical people. You've got a problem in New Sad now. Let's just say, I have a specific one. You can't find, hire and hire people. This problem has existed for a long time in Subotica. Today I read in the newspaper, Croatia has the same problem. People go where they're better, and on the other hand, technology develops so much that you now have one computer that replaces dozens of people. We have machines. Here, I have a GPC machine that can replace 800 people. What are we gonna do now? Fire 800 people? How are these people gonna get a pension one minute? It's something that's our problem, it's something that we all need to think about together. Is this a proposal that we have, the establishment of a technical, technological fund, which the Slovenians want to do, I don't know if they've already finished, which means that all companies that have a lot of robotics, a lot of machines, are paying off some of the profits in that fund so that it can be financed by pensioners who have to receive. That world has to live on something. It's a serious topic of thought and that's what I wanted to talk about here today. We've all seen the numbers. We've all read it. We also know how the Fiscal Council feels, but I think we're all together, no matter what, right now, we're all talking about intergenerational reality right now. We started talking about it in 2008, when no one was talking about it. It's been so much fun. Of course today is about pensioners, of course, but somehow pensioners all defend only at the time of the election and only during the campaign. We are now essentially coming back, because we are all going to be pensioners, we are going back to having to find a consensus together and say, yes, it is something that is the future, it is something that will be sustainable and will not depend on whether Minister Sinisha Mali or the minister is someone else. It will not depend on the party's leading party, but will be regulated by law. That takes a lot of time. I'm sure it just takes us a year to sit down, but let's meet in this year, sit down, and each one of us brings out its platform and try to coordinate it and find a solution for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42961	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42962	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have 33 different points of the agenda united into one, so it is impossible to talk about all of them, although there are very interesting topics. I will concentrate on a few of them, and the other MPs from the "Enough" group will speak for them. The first topic I'm going to talk about is this law amending the Retirement System Act. Four years ago, on 28 October 2014, this disputed and, according to us, against the constitutional law, which reduced pensioners. Out of the 1,700,000 pensioners, as many as Serbia has, 600,000 suffered the burden, all those who had pensions of over 25,000 dinars, the amount of over 25,000 dinars was reduced by 22% and all those who had pensions of more than 40,000 dinars was reduced by 25%. The pensioners know that. So 600,000 of them paid this price. It is very good that this law is now abolished, namely that this temporary pension reduction, which lasted four years, is lifted. We proposed a law more than a year ago that also demanded that the law be abolished. One difference between this government proposal and what we have proposed in our law is that what has been taken be returned along with the legally tight interest. The government did not do so with this law, but practically simply annulled the pension cuts, without any compensation to the pensioners of what was practically against them constitutionally and against legal kidnapping. We, together with the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons of Serbia, have made up one amendment, which has been submitted among the amendments, which would practically enable the return of everything kidnapped and, together with every pension in the next four years, to return together with the legal tightening interest and what was taken in the previous four years. Now, what is important for pensioners, little to look at this period in the last four years, since much has been said about how this was a necessary measure, in order for Serbia to go bankrupt if this measure was not adopted and not for these 600,000 people, who were kidnapped by pensions without anyone asking them anything about it, that it was not for Serbia to fail. This was practically a narrative, so I would check it out a little with numbers compared to some other spending that the state of Serbia had in the previous four years, to see if it was really true, because there was a lot of talk about how the reforms were necessary, which is true, that the state of Serbia was in a very difficult financial state four years ago, which was also true, but then the method chosen to get Serbia out of this problem, instead of introducing order in the country, to cut its costs, to reduce what they were living on Serbian citizens' coat of arms, has reached into the pockets of pensioners and all other citizens by reducing pensions, so reduced salaries in the public sector, doctors, educational workers, but they also raised all tax rates. I'll remind you, the citizens have probably forgotten by now, the VAT rate has been raised from 18% to 20%, the bottom rate from 8% to 10%, the excise duties have all been increased, from excise duty to tobacco, and then increased, say, the property tax and all possible taxes in this time, and that's how the consolidated budget of the Republic of Serbia, not reforms, but by the state reaching into the pockets of citizens, businesses and pensioners, to achieve this. For these four years, about 20 billion dinars per year were taken on average, which resulted in some 88-90 billion dinars in these four years, amounting to about 730m euros. So these pensioners, 600,000 of them, gave the budget to the Republic of Serbia and to all citizens in their pockets, without anyone asking them anything, 730m euros. You should look at who these people are, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, what else we could have done for that time. The story went around the people and newspapers and practically turned against the pensioners, because 60% of the pensioners didn't have a reduction because they had pensions of less than 25,000 dinars and then there was a story about how the pensioners had huge and large pensions to be taken from them and they all said – well, yes, they should take them. How many pensioners do you think have over 50,000 dinars? About 5%. So, out of the 100 pensioners you take, there are about 5 pensions of over 50,000 dinars. Sixty percent of them have pensions below 25 thousand dinars. So most of these, called, reforms, i.e. these 730m euros, were paid by pensioners with pensions between 25,000 dinars and 50,000 dinars. Those with pensions of over 100,000 dinars, they were talked about as if there were no idea how many, there are 235 such pensioners. So the main burden has been borne by pensioners who have pensions of 25 to 50,000 dinars. Then part of the injustice in all of this is also, imagine you have two pensioners from the same household, husband and wife, who have pensions of 25,000 dinars, so total household income of 50,000, their pensions are not reduced, and you have, say, another household where you have only one pensioner, who has, say, a pension of 40,000 dinars. So less than this second household, that pensioner's pension has been reduced, so let's say a monthly pension reduction of 3,300 dinars. Every year for 36,600 dinars and for these four years 158,000 dinars. This is one big injustice. We were also saying that this system should not be introduced because it does not work in a balanced way what should be done in society, first of all it should not have burdened the pensioners. Let's see what the pensioners actually paid with those 730m euros, which they paid in the last four years, what was the money spent on? He says, for example, over the last four years, the subsidies were dropped by the state of Serbia 3.9 billion euros, or 477 billion dinars. So the subsidies went to 3.9 billion. The pensioners contributed 730 million to these subsidies. So 20% of all subsidies, most of the waste of money on irresponsible public enterprises that have arched it in every way possible. These pensioners with these pensions of 25 to 50,000 dinars gave such irresponsible businesses. Among them, they gave money to this, call, foreign investors who create jobs for cheap labour. If you're wondering, citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the pensioners, who you've had in this way to separate the money, or, which was taken from you, you've given it to this kind of thing, 3.9 billion. So when someone tells you there's no money, you can clearly see from this that there's money, it's just being spent on other things, not on those to which it's supposed to be spent. When we look at, let's say activated guarantees from the Serbian state over the last four years, that's what 1.1 billion euros went to. So somewhere around 2/3 of this amount was paid by pensioners with this 730 million. So, people with pensions of 25 to 50,000 dinars a month, 1.1 billion. When we add with subsidies, it's five billion euros in the last four years. Then, when you look at it, you're riding in public enterprises, like EPS. In the last four years, it has been under the name of unpaid electricity, so the EPS delivers electricity, and the current has not been paid by irresponsible users and the EPS has done nothing to protect the state from it, the total state of Serbia has lost, i.e. the EPS 660m euros. After years, 2014 – 220 million, 2015 – 150 million, 2016 – 160 million, etc. Each year, the state of Serbia loses over 100m euros on unpaid electricity. So that's where the order wasn't put in, and then, of course, it went into the pensioners' pockets. So, dear pensioners, ladies and gentlemen, you have paid all those who have not paid the electricity of 660m euros in the last four years. No one asked you about that. For example, Jelizara Smederevo has made losses of 425m euros in the last four years. You remember those big managements, that Peter Kamaras, who got 340 thousand euros a month in compensation for his management work and then finally sued the Republic of Serbia, here, we found out a month ago that he got slow, another $12 million needed to be paid by the state. The country's irresponsibility in the last four years has thrown 425m euros. Ladies and gentlemen, our dear pensioners, grandparents, you've paid, your 600,000, this loss. Then let's say "Er Serbia", in the last four years, has made a business loss of 218m euros. Your business loss is the difference between business income and business expenditure, so since the difference is very large, 218m euros, then the state of Serbia has given a grant, i.e. a ‘Er Serbia’ gift of 175m euros in the last four years. When you add it up with Jellyzar, dear pensioners, you've also paid this cost. I don't know if anyone asked you if you wanted to pay this expense, but this is what your money went to. Then, when we look at various other projects, the type of New Year's lighting in Belgrade, over 10m euros in the last four years has been thrown at it. Did anyone ask you about that and a lot of similar projects? Then a continuation of robbery privatisation, a huge amount of money that's gone missing here. Let's say the PKK is now sold. It was sold for 105m euros. She bought it called an Arab firm. I didn't see any Arabs negotiate with them, practically, it's about some of our money, which kind of comes to Serbia. In the PKK, which has 28 000 hectares of land, which has about 300 hectares near Pupin's bridge, which will be a building plot worth at least 200m euros, it was sold for 105m euros. This is a continuation of the robbery privatisation, the essence of which is the grab for construction land, as is "Belgrade on Water", as is the majority of Serbia's robbery privatisations, the destruction of the economy in order to reach cheap construction land. The construction plot "Belgrade on Water" of 100 hectares, probably the most attractive in the Balkans, is worth about a billion euros. The state of Serbia didn't take anything for it. The PKK is also being sold this way because of that land. Not to mention other assets, besides agricultural, 38 thousand square meters of different technical facilities, a large number of cattle throats, then many related societies, among other things, the PKB...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42963	Ambassador, if Ambassador Obradovic does not get the impression that I love you more than he does, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42964	This has to do with the law, the chairman, because this tells pensioners what their money has gone to in the last four years and how they could get paid for what they've been kidnapped against. So this is directly related to the agenda point. The same situation is with RTB Bor, where it is practically sold for 350m euros. It's one site that's very valuable in the Borska River that has the potential of mining wealth, the entire RTB Bor, about 50 billion dollars. So it was sold for 350m euros. At the same time, one small Canadian company doing research at another location, Chukar Pecki, where they practically found a $5.5 billion mineral wealth, which they then sold the right to research and exploit that other Canadian company for $384 million. So ten times less ore wealth was sold at a higher price than was sold to the entire RTB Bor. This is about the state's irresponsibility. So, basically, when you have this kind of irresponsibility of the state, which is measured in billions of euros, the only way that the state remains able to function is by dragging its hand into the pockets of citizens, businesses and pensioners. What's a big lie to the citizens of Serbia is that there is no money. Obviously there is money, it's just being spent on things that aren't in the interest of citizens, but on things that are in the interest of a partocrat. There's a big ride in power, a big mess in the country. This is what needs to be changed, Serbia needs to introduce order, not drag its hands into pensioners' pockets. Once again, the DJB parliamentary group has proposed amendments to the laws we asked for the pensioners to be returned to everything they've been kidnapped in the last four years. As you can see, the money there is, only if the order is introduced and the proposal is combined with the union of retired Serbian military figures who wrote part of the proposal, we added some of our stuff, is that in the next period of each month pensioners are paid back in a month that they were taken along with the legal tight interest. This is the first law I can talk about. The other one's interesting. San Marino and I are signing an agreement on avoidance of double taxation. This is really interesting, because our exchange with San Marino is so small, and the law is so open that it's practically possible to avoid taxes differently, so it's really interesting that we sign these agreements at all. There's no time to discuss now what the provisions of this agreement are, but indicatively with these small countries to make these agreements, where the exchange between us is really minor, where does this come from? What is missing in these agreements is always strong co-operation between the tax administrations to prevent money laundering, to prevent all financial machinations, and of course there is never. Then, another agreement is also interesting and we support this agreement. I don't know if the citizens of Serbia know, but Serbia has signed a free trade agreement with the EFTA States. I will remind citizens that EFTA is a European organisation that has been a competitor to the European Economic Community, which has later grown into the EU, and that the EFTA has based its co-operation on economic co-operation. The European Economic Community itself has gone through political co-operation, while EFTA countries remain in this economic co-operation, a common Schengen area and things that are more than of interest to citizens, rather than creating a supranational system like the EU. Practically, in this EFTA are countries: Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein and those countries are held within the EFTA and all agreements with other EU countries... Yugoslavia wanted to become a member of the EFTA in its own time, which would be a very good move. Great Britain founded the EFTA, which is now leaving the EU. The whole area is expected to be revived and followed by some Scandinavian countries such as Denmark, but also Northern Ireland, etc. This agreement is interesting for us because besides these EFTA countries, we should strive for this economic co-operation and integration with those countries, the Faeroe Islands also mentions. The Faeroe Islands are, interestingly, an integral part of Denmark. But they don't have a chair in the UN. The Danish Constitution treats them as part of Denmark, although they are a completely special entity with their autonomy. It is interesting that the agreement between Denmark and the EU provides that citizens of the Faeroe Islands are not members of the EU, which tells us that there are possible situations in which you have a country in the EU in which part of its territory, which is under its Constitution, where citizens have declared independence, has no chair in the UN. That it is possible that it exists within the EU and this is a very interesting data that compares what we are told about KIM that such legal situations are impossible. This agreement with the EFTA is something Serbia should think about, as the EU has gone in a completely wrong direction as a project and has turned into a polygon to dominate the largest European state, which is Germany. This domination is completely economical, they have prevailed in European space, and it is now slowly being translated into political power that affects and educates flows in Europe. Britain recognised it, exited the EU, is expected to complete these negotiations by March next year, and then we think that an organisation such as the EFTA will strengthen. These are some things Serbia should consider since the EU, as a political project, supports all the bad things that are happening in Serbia, which has become a project of domination, turning the Balkans into a space of cheap labour. So, not a space where we need to support European values, not a space where we will fight for freedom of the media, for the rule of law, for equal access to the laws of the citizens, that there is no electoral theft, that there is no manipulation with the electoral lists, but all of it silently, then the administration says that Serbia is going in the right direction. The conflict between Germany and America has become already apparent, beating across Iran, conflict between dollars and euros. Serbia really should, it is time to look at alternatives and ways in which it can better exercise its rights. This European project, i.e. the EU project, is going in the wrong direction. Europe certainly needs a different project. A project of co-operation between European countries, integration at that level, is needed, I'm afraid, in fact, that the EU has lost credibility on that path.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42965	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42966	Mr. Radulovic, I remember when you, fortunately, were engaged in the business of Serbia. At that time and during that time, no new job was opened, no company found a partner, no investor came into our country, because you watched how to put these companies into bankruptcy and how to benefit from it, that you always always did business with nothing but bankruptcy, company closure and job layoffs. What has been done in the last four years: more than 70 new factories have been opened in the territory of all Serbia, incentives have been given and incentives will be given, but every dinar that is given is secured by the investor's bank guarantee. I'll tell you, a few days ago when we were in China, while President Vukic had an official visit to China, we talked to the biggest Chinese investors. Ten or twelve of them, all top 500 of the largest company in the world, wants to come to Serbia, wants to invest in our country, but you should also know that our country is fighting for every job, with competition and Poland, and Slovakia, and the Czech Republic, and Hungary. Unlike you, we fight to get all these factories into our country. Responsible also in the way in which “Smederevo Iron” is a real example for you. It was in the previous period that the state gave out the budget and subsidized "The Iron". It was a while ago, but we found a partner and the state no longer gives, if I'm not mistaken, $12 million a month for Iron to survive, but we didn't close the Iron in Smederev. We have provided 5,000 jobs, a safe future for 5,000 families working in the Irons, and we have provided them with the opportunity to earn our bread and thus fight for every new job in our country. Here, and RTB Bor mentioned. For Serbian citizens, there are few 1.4 billion dollars to be invested in RTB Bor over the next six years. It will raise Serbia's east. It will raise Serbia's economy, and that shows how many we have provided for thousands of citizens safe jobs, and that is how we fight for every new investment, for every new investor, and so we will continue to fight. The proof is that in 2012, over 24% were unemployed in Serbia, and today it is 11.9%, and that is a lot, but we are going to fight to make that number smaller and smaller from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42967	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Radulovich? (Saša Radulovic: Mention. You have no right to a replica. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42968	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly the draft law on amendments and additions to the Pension-Inhabitation Act. The decision defined and debated today is good news for all pensioners in Serbia. This is actually a prerequisite for increasing pensions in Serbia. All the changes we are talking about when it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, as Minister Djordjevic said in the opening statement, are positive, in favour of pensioners, current and future pensioners, and this legislative proposal will certainly have the support of the SPS parliamentary group. What is important is that public finances are safe and stable that the Serbian economy, as we have heard more than once today, is making strong progress, to achieve results that are always far above the goals that have been achieved, which are defined, and that is very good. It's always good to raise the ladder up. That's good for Serbia's future, because we are talking about Serbia's future today. The PIO Fund, as could be heard during the opening exhibition, is stable, funds allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the Fund are below the level defined by the IMF, and there are enough funds in the Republic budget and there is no need to rebalance the budget and it certainly is good news. Thanks to the brave, responsible, but, I would say, and by a difficult decision, there have been positive economic indicators. Not by easy means and not by making an easy decision, and not by acting, as the Republic budget says here, to raise wages and pensions without absolutely nothing being done. The decision made in 2014 and which is the cornerstone of the reform processes and the foundation of the government's reform course of the Republic of Serbia is a politically courageous decision. Some decision had to be made to survive, because Serbia was facing a financial bankruptcy. You know how, when you don't have a responsibility, it's easy to criticize, then it's easy to say what the citizens want and want to hear, what sounds nice, to try to get political points. Those in some alliance where both the right and left and the centre are, an alliance that does not represent an alternative but an opportunity to survive politically, with full right today, say the Socialist Party of Serbia has issued left-wing ideas by accepting this time and direction in 2014. But I want to make it perfectly clear – in 2014 there were only two times. One road and a direction that sounds nice, but if it were realised in practice, in a year or two Serbia would go towards financial bankruptcy and financial collapse. The second time and direction is that reform course of the government, the reform processes, thanks to which we have positive economic indicators today. You know what, we're socialists, but we can't be the socialists of the utopians, so let's accept those ideas and those suggestions that are in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Were we right? Well, today it is quite clear that we were right and that the simplified view of the measures that we were taking at the time, which was taken by the ruling coalition in Serbia, is that it is simplified to watch whenever you go out and say – you take pensions. No, these were measures to save the Serbian economy, those were measures concerning Serbia's future and the measures concerning the future of every Serbian citizen. And that's why today we have a healthy system based on sound foundations. Not on the list of good wishes, not on politics, political pamphlets, messages, to get political points, but on a healthy system based on life and based on economy. Serbia was ahead of a financial bankruptcy. Public debt, correct me finance ministers if I'm wrong, 78% of the gross social product, and by the end of the year will be below 50%. Most of the debt has been paid back and I think Serbia is one of the most successful countries in Europe when it comes to public debt. I think we have fully realised two objectives, which is – a permanent reduction in the budget deficit and a permanent reduction in public debt. We have a surplus in the budget, third year in a row, we have a surplus in the budget. In June 2018, the deficit was 41.9 billion. When it comes to foreign investment, which is a small matter of time, Serbia is certainly a leader in the region – 1.4 billion euros in investment in the first six months and that is by 15.6% more compared to the same period of the previous year. So Serbia is a leader in the region and these are facts. They are irrefutable, no matter how politically they differ. Unemployment rate, multiple times today to present incorrect data, 25 years later, I think it's the first time below 12% - 11.9% correct. And in 2013, it was 25.9%. Growth is 4.9%. That hasn't happened in the last 10 years. The minimum labour price has reached 155 dinars. They're facts and they're indicators. These economic indicators have been achieved through great effort, work, effort, invested energy. These economic indicators were primarily due to the sacrifice, understanding, and patience of the older population, which are pensioners. Today, when we hear criticism – too little is set aside for pensioners, return to the pensioners all that has been taken, these are the flossules that need to reach political points. We're talking about an increase based on real base. We don't make budgets to make social peace and leave a minus in the budget register. I said, third year in a row of budget surpluses. So, rationally and domestically, through a responsible and serious approach, the best solution is found. And what is very important – we must never go back to the period behind us when it comes to economic indicators. I think that we need to keep very tight the hard-earned fiscal achievements, use them in the right way during the period ahead of us, but also support all those initiatives leading to growth and development. There was a little time here to talk about changes, when it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act. I said that all changes are positive and that they go in the direction and in favour of the pensioner. I'm not gonna tax them. They have our support because, I repeat, they are in the interest of the current, but in the interest of future pensioners. The biggest controversy was about harmonising pensions. I would like to say that the SPS Parliament Club supports the government's proposal, the resolution ministry, to monitor economic growth, economic opportunities, assess and decide on a possible pension increase. So it's the state, it's the government that's going to evaluate how much that increase is going to be. I do not understand the criticisms that have been addressed in this way, for one simple reason, which is that it was not a responsible and serious government approach, if it were not for a reform course, we today would not have positive economic indicators that we are talking about and would not create preconditions for increasing pensions and preconditions to talk to IMF representatives about increasing wages in the public sector. So, we're like a parliamentary club fully convinced that pensioners will get more in this way compared to the current still way of synchronising twice a year. We are absolutely convinced that, when it comes to economic indicators, good years and we are not satisfied with the fact that there is a minimum for pensioners. We want it to stand out far more and I think this is the way and the way that this goal is realized. I'll just take a minute, when it comes to change. So, the changes that are important and which are positive are -- it ceases to be a law on the temporary adjustment of the way pensions are paid, pension cuts are lifted, positive economic movements have made it possible for other measures to improve the pensioner's standard, the possibility of paying off a special cash amount as a pension increase is established, this cash amount will be paid in terms of economic movement, financial power, budget, up to a maximum of 0.3% of the gross social product on an annual basis, which is very precise and clearly defined, changes in the way of calculating the amount of early retirement for those insurance companies whose insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration, so on. Beneficiary work experience. We believe that this is a fairer solution than what we had, to prevent the possibility of abuse from gaining the right to a well-favoured internship, with the maximum degree of increase in internships. It is now prescribed that the insurance company must carry out effectively on jobs that increase the duration of at least two-thirds of the total duration of the training carried out in the workplaces where the internship is maximised. What's the matter here and what's really wrong with this change? The aim is to reduce temporary solutions, and that was the case, and thus pensioners will avoid paying the difference between these two pension amounts, which in some cases amount to up to several hundred thousand dinars. I think it's a well-set goal, we support the realization of this goal, because, according to some data I've had the opportunity to see, around 80% of the total number of issued solutions are temporary. So, I repeat, all changes are going in the direction and in the interests of the pensioners and will have the support of the SPS parliamentary group. When it comes to the second legislative proposal or to the third order, therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, education is certainly the priority of every society. The country is responsible for education. It is the state that regulates and provides conditions for the functioning of this very important system. Education is, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, an important social mission, I would say, a prerequisite for the country's economic and social progress depends on the number of educated, qualified, professional, competent people and I believe that the common goal is to make our contribution to improving and improving this extremely important and important system. In a few sentences, the respected Professor Obradovic and Professor Boskovic will speak more about what are the basic characteristics of the amendments and the addition of the law we are talking about. So I don't think they get into the basics of the system, they make it stable, they build it up in terms of being more efficient and more effective, removing certain ambiguities when it comes to PhDs, there's no selective justice, I think that's very good and what's important, they have in mind and the accent is put in some way and the students who have studied safely. The very fact that when we talk about moving deadlines, it refers to about four thousand students, speaks enough about the importance and importance of the legislative proposal that we are talking about today. So we put students in the center of interest. This way we give students a chance, make it easier for students to study more efficiently and efficiently. I think that these amendments to the Higher Education Act get students, I think they get both teachers and universities, but I want to believe that they also get company. Students get the opportunity and chance to study more efficiently and efficiently, teachers and universities get the responsibility, and I want the society to believe that a good impact analysis has been made that these changes are in line with the needs of society. A new law on professions of particular interest for the Republic of Serbia should create a framework for establishing a list of professions that are of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia, as well as conditions and the necessary competences to carry out certain professions, it will have the support of the SPS parliamentary group. In accordance with the time I have at my disposal, I'll let my colleagues discuss these changes in more detail. In front of us, there are 28 other draft laws on confirming the agreement with both a large number of international organisations and 17 countries related to different areas. Let me just look back in a few sentences, again, time doesn't allow me, two agreements with our traditionally friendly states, not diminishing the importance and importance of other states, but traditionally-oriented states, our foreign-political and strategic partners, countries that represent our backbone and the backdrop in defending territorial integrity and sovereignty and defending national and state interests. Of course, I mean agreements with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries was signed in Moscow on 13 October 2012. It envisions a long-term and secure supply of the Republic of Serbia's natural gas market, and the agreement we are talking about today provides for natural gas delivered to be used exclusively in the Republic of Serbia's market. This protocol, which we are talking about amending the agreement in Serbia, enabled the re-export of Russian gas, which was not enabled by the previous agreement. The People's Republic of China is one of our biggest economic partners, representing one of the leading infrastructure investors in the Republic of Serbia, and due to the growing number of Chinese investments in our country, the need to regulate a social security area that has not been regulated previously by an international agreement has emerged. Also, I would like to take particular advantage of the opportunity to highlight both the positive effects and the results of the historical and in every respect the successful visit of the President of the Republic and the delegation of the Government of Serbia to the People's Republic of China, I say, successfully in every respect, the confirmation of friendly relations, but also the confirmation that economic relations are progressing strongly. In addition to this finding, the fact of 11 investment agreements, the total value of three billion euros, means new jobs, that means incentives for economic activity, that means greater economic growth. I was deliberately talking about these three agreements. Just a few more sentences. I spoke, among other things, because of the dynamic and more effective co-operation that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has with both homes of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, but also with the Svekine National Congress of the People's Republic of China. Namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the highest form of bilateral co-operation with the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and with the Svekine National Congress of the People's Republic of China through the Co-operation Commission. I think this is the natural result of the mutual support of the two countries and the mutual closeness and understanding of the two peoples, the continued dialogue at the highest level, but good and political and economic and cultural strategic co-operation. All bilateral agreements under discussion today contribute to strengthening Serbia's bilateral and international relations with a number of countries and are a confirmation of strengthening international reputation and international image of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's strategic partnership, certainly one of Serbia's key foreign-political objectives is full membership of Serbia in the EU, but Serbia wants to continue, build and strengthen relations with traditionally-oriented friendly countries and peoples such as the People's Republic of China, Russia and the United States, many other countries and peoples. Serbia runs an independent policy, an independent foreign policy, but always in the interests of the state and its citizens. Finally, the SPS parliamentary club will also support 28 proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-21-0.u42969	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. I thank the MPs, ministers and their associates for their participation in today's debate. We're finishing work today. We'll continue our work on Monday, September 24th, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. I wish everyone a nice weekend.
