ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Since I have come into possession of very confidential information, and I count if I, with my limited material and personnel resources, have come up with such information, then must and that all our security services, the state services, are also informed about it and have more complete information. Rasim Ljajic is a longtime co-worker of British intelligence. He's on the phone with Lucy Mazels, head of the British Embassy's political department in Belgrade. She's been meeting with her occasionally, and I've been confidently informed, at the last or the last conversation, that they've negotiated my liquidation. And she also told Lucy Mazels that she would like the job done while she's in Belgrade, as she soon expires and leaves Belgrade. Some of these talks are attended by Celia Somestein, who has been working in Belgrade since July and has been preparing to replace Lucy Mazels. I ask the question of the Minister of the Interior – what did the Security Service, or the police, do under his jurisdiction, do about this? Do they have any plans? Does their plan mean the arrest of those who plan and prepare this crime before they try, so they can file criminal charges for planning and preparation, where the sentences are weaker or wait for the first crime to be committed, and then arrest them if they don't get away in time, and then the crime would be punishable by much more punishment? I demand, as a People's MP and as a citizen, information about it. After all, you know, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that our police have very capable services and monitoring and reporting and communication, and they use a lot of resources to protect certain individuals whom no one threatens or needs protection. A whole police battalion hired to protect individuals like Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko and the like. How many other jobs could the police do? How successful would these personnel be in the pursuit of perpetrators of criminal acts, the prevention of smuggling, the prosecution of drug traffickers and everyone else? It's high time the police came up with some concrete result and in the fight against crime, which has political attributes, but in fact it's much more dangerous to represent the mafia's type of crime linked, first of all, to trade, to the production and trafficking of drugs, because these drugs are produced both in our country and uninterruptedly there are entire laboratories. When there's an incident in one of these laboratories, and they expose themselves to the death of two workers, and Ljajic's brother saves them, he manages to save them, and he himself dies from heroin-infested air. The police come, make an insight, and then someone puts the whole lab away. There, that's my question. I expect the Home Secretary to finally start answering my questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50584	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50585	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you see that the ideas and fictions of this false duke, Mr. Seselj, have disappeared at the expense of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50586	Ask a fellow Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50587	I'm going to ask you a question, because it's really about this statement and it's about what we do in this assembly. I will remind you that we are the largest legislative body, not only to pass laws, but to worry about their execution. I remind the public that the Appellate Greater Mechanism for International Criminal Courts has denied the request of Vojislav Seselj, which has made it clear two things - that there are no more doubts and that there is no further legal doubt that this man is no longer sitting in this Assembly and another thing, that Vojislav Seselj, by writing this complaint, has recognised the Hague itself as competent and valid to judge him. I will remind the public that in April of this year, judges sentenced Seselj to 10 years in prison, three counts of inciting, persecution, deportation and other inhumane acts, as well as crimes against humanity. You all know very well, under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, Article 88 in Section 3 clearly states that a person sentenced to a prison sentence for more than six months cannot be a MP. And, I urge you, first of all, to call upon the President of the Assembly to call upon the Administrative Board to determine this matter. I repeat again, there is no one in Europe who sits in a convicted war criminal. Seselj encouraged the killing and persecution, calling on his SRS volunteers to make sure that no one among their historical enemies, I quote, is spared, and his historical enemies are Bosniaks, who should be particularly avenged because, I quote Seselj, Muslims, and Croats, I quote Seselj, who need to lay out accounts for the victims of World War I and II and quote again Mr Seselj, to be avenged where they are weakest. Gentlemen, in the 21st century, a man who makes such statements, in modern Serbia, against the law of this country should sit here and promote parliamentaryism, legislation and all that is modern Serbia. Such speeches, gentlemen, Seselj created circumstances for causing violence and directly referred to war crimes, which left 20,000 dead in Croatia and 100,000 dead in BiH. Based on 72 witnesses, Seselj has been proven responsible for establishing a paramilitary formation – a Serbian Chetnik movement known as "Seseljevci", which committed crimes against Bosniaks and Croats in Vukovar, Bljeljina, Zvornik, Brcko, Nevesinj and the surrounding Mostar. Is there anything more to add than what's said. It is particularly worrying about the flood of this reality star in the media with a national frequency, and even its growing presence in culture. Gentlemen, I will remind you of what happened at the famous book fair, where, by no miracle, Mr. Seselj had his place, where representative publishers stand and where he spread national dark ideas, called and abused young children for political purposes. Well, how can a department that comes from Novi Pazar feel when he hears that he promotes the Chetniks and the Serbian Chetnik movement and invites those who are Chetniks to take pictures with him? How can minorities feel? That's why I'm asking you to comply with this country's laws as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50588	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50589	Thank you, Chairman. The first question I would like to refer to the Minister of the Interior, to say whether there is any knowledge that the persons have committed an act of damage to the vehicle of Predrag Vostinić, a committee member of the local front in the King, which was damaged the other day, to which SNS DJ+8 was scratched? The second question to the President of the Republic – where does he get information about pensioners sending them letters, since the answer to this question that came from the ruling party certainly cannot be correct? Namely, it has been said that the President of the Republic has this information from the field actions of the ruling party, and here I personally know at least a few pensioners who have never left all their data in the field, especially not personal and address information. There are even MPs among them who have never done so. The next issue of European Integration Ministers. On 26 October this year, an agreement on co-operation in the field of European integration between the ministry and the Regional Secretariat for Regional Development was signed. Unfortunately, nothing is known about this agreement in public, since it has not been published anywhere. We are interested in exactly how will the province administration be involved in the processes of European integration and at different stages in which the negotiating chapters are located? In particular, will the specificities of the Vojvodina be respected as multinational environments? We have a situation where textbooks for students who listen to teaching in the languages of national minorities are late, here at the very end of the first term. Will Vojvodina specificities in chapters of particular interest, such as agriculture and rural development, be respected? The next question is the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs. Is he familiar with what's going on at the New Sad Lir factory? According to the "Independence" union, over 260 workers of the factory were recently forced to sign some agreed termination of the labour contract, therefore, in advance. In addition to these illegal contractual terminations of employment, which, according to the information provided by the border union of industry, energy and mining, workers have reached the public through workers of this factory and information on the non-compliance with the provisions of the Labour Act concerning minimum earnings, the use of annual holidays and the payment of overtime. Overtime hours are reportedly recorded in a bank of some kind that workers never manage to charge those overtime hours, rather than pay for. Pressures are usually exposed to workers who went on sick leave, as well as workers who simply used their vacations. These workers are being transferred to something called the so-called "colloquial" factory. Scissors. We find it inadmissible that workers are discriminated against only because they used their rights prescribed by labour legislation. Finally, we believe that it is necessary to ask on the Lira case the question of cost-effectiveness of economic policy and development based on subsidies. It is an investment that has received more than 60m euros from the Republic of Serbia and the City of Novi Sad in various forms of direct payments of subsidies and various indirect benefits and direct investments from the town of Novi Sad in the installation of this factory over the past two years. If we take that factory to employ 3,000 employers who cost about 350 euros a month gross, we will reach a figure of only 25m euros. So, the state of Serbia and the City of Novi Now gave this factory money twice the gross cost of earning this kind of treatment for workers in the factory. Finally another question from the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs. Is it envisaged to amend the Social Protection Act in the direction that persons with disabilities can be more significant and more stable in financing the services of personal assistants and the escort service of a minor with disabilities? In Serbia, around 250 people use this service, and the need for it has 10 times as many people. We understand that it is a small number of citizens who cannot contribute to anyone's election success or failure, but we believe that as a modern society we must respond to the needs of every endangered minority group, in particular in this case I mean this minority group, which, according to data published in the media, numbers of about two, two and a half thousand people. We ask the Minister – will amending the Social Protection Act provide this social group with stable funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50590	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First question I ask the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, what he is doing and whether they are aware of the fact that from 2012 in Serbia, 139 victims who were killed by mob attacks, i.e. Murders? So the data is catastrophic and defeating in terms of the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose lives are threatened by the mafia's liquidations, and in the midst of a white day in Serbia. One hundred thirty-nine murders since 2012 during your reign took place in Serbia, and 89 of them qualified as unknown perpetrators, no one knows who he is or what he is or what motive he is. For Serbian citizens to know what it was before, in 2012, there were seven such murders, in 2013, 12, 2014, 14, 2015 22, 2016 24, 2017, 28 and a record in this year 2018, which has not yet been completed, 32 murders. So, is that faster, stronger? Is this how you will ensure the safety and security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Is this one of the things why Aleksandar Vucic received the Golden Lion Peace Prize, which was awarded by an NGO, should be heard by fellow SNS MPs from Italy who set up the award last year? Before him was awarded a local pasta manufacturer in Italy. He probably also won the prize because he is building good neighbourly relations with all the countries in the region. I don't know if there's a country he hasn't had a fight with in seven years. They're all our enemies. We don't have neighbors. It's our world, it's Europe's fault, it's America's fault. On the other hand, what is the response of the state of Serbia and Alexander Vucic to the crisis in Kosovo, except for how the Albanians are, as Ramush Haradinaj said yesterday after a visit to Johannes Han, that he would lift fees of 100% when Serbia recognises Kosovo's independence. Last night, at a press conference, he knocked and said, "They're like this, they're like this, they're beating us up, with a crying voice -- they're going to form an army on December 14th of this year. What did you do? What did you do for Serbia? They sat in Rome on November 4th with Thaci and arranged this scenario. Serbian citizens should be aware that what is happening today is a scenario down there and that these people today who are victims of this kind of wrong Serbian policy are only part of the performance of Alexander Vukic and Hashim Thaci. They create, challenge conflict and create an ambience for the only solution to be a legally binding agreement, recognition of Kosovo, Kosovo to the UN, and that is a message he sent last night to a press conference by the president of the state. I ask him - what is the solution of the Republic of Serbia to the announcements by the Albanian side that taxes will be abolished when Serbia recognises Kosovo and what is the solution when they form an army because it is obviously going to form it or it will only be a moaning - so they took our army, then the police, then set up the borders, and they form an army, so they will take away the Gaza Stripes and our state will find it? Never have Serbia and the Serbian people been humiliated and humiliated again but during your rule and your authority, and it should be clear to everyone, and you will not be able to introduce yourself as great peacemakers to trick anyone with what-what rewards you pay and which your advisors provide, in this case, Frank Frantini, who was paid by this government. Why doesn't Tony Blair help Serbia solve Kosovo's problem? Where are your friends that you pay? Where's Guzenbauer? Where are the other advisors of Alexander Wolfich? There's no one here. How is it that Serbia with so many friends in the world remains alone to solve the problems of our citizens who are suffering in Kosovo downstairs today?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50592	I thank my colleague Alexic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50593	My first question goes to the address of the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and concerns one clear information – is it true or not that Alexander Vukic and Hashim Thaci met in Rome on 4 November, as said last night, Vuk Jeremic, and that they agreed then to raise taxis on Serbian goods with the aim of creating a tension and tension atmosphere on one side and the other in which the demarcation agreement would then prove necessary and imminent and saved to avoid war? I don't expect to be confirmed that the subject of that meeting was what Mr. Jeremic said, but I expect to be told – whether it was a meeting or not? So, did Hashim Thaci and Aleksandar Vukic meet in Rome on November 4th. When Vuk Jeremic bids whether and when there will be a choice, it is something we can take with the reserve or not, but when it comes to these international contacts and relations and meetings, it has so far proved to be quite accurate. After all, he announced that Aleksandar Vukic and Hashim Thaci met this year, this autumn and this summer, both in Paris and New York and after that information was, I stress, confirmed from several other sources. So, the meetings were. I am now asking – was there a meeting in Rome on November 4th? On the side that it's ugly that Serbia's public doesn't know anything about it, if it really was, and that really the subject of that meeting was agreed to raise tensions around taxis and other things so that they would show up as firefighters, it's a place so terrible that I don't want to believe that it really is. So, the information I expect from these instances - was there or was there no meeting? With that in mind, I ask the Foreign Ministry if there is information that has appeared in the public that, during their last visit to the region, senior US official Matthew Palmer told his Pristina hosts, or conversants to hurry and not to joke, but to make an agreement, because, quote, in Belgrade, there will never be another talker ready for an agreement like they have in Alexander Vukic? It's been mentioned several times. Does the Foreign Ministry really have a statement from Mr. Matthew Palmer, a senior American official? My third question goes to the address of the National Assembly Presidency and concerns this situation in the Assembly of the last days and at the end of the endings and yesterday and the atmosphere which some have called to be at the edge of the incident, and it is my intervention in the appeal primarily to see whether there is a possibility that tensions can be reduced by the leadership of the Assembly calling on the ruling majority to give up the practice of submitting those amendments that it endures and whether it is possible to compromise in that sense, is possible, if there is any expectation of any opposition in that direction, because as we have set out, as this process goes, I don't think it leads anywhere except to further collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly. I was here sometimes and alone in these ranks of opposition warning fellows from the ruling majority that it makes no sense with these amendments to the first members of the first law. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world and that it can't be defended no matter how many times the story of how no one deny the right opposition. So there is no parliament in a world where amendments to the ruling majority are submitted to their own laws, and then they do not vote for them, and in this way those 600 minutes scheduled for the debate will be spent. Yesterday, it was just proven that the opposition can't do it anymore, and it doesn't want to suffer, but independently, I now appeal to some kind of deal. It cannot continue with bad practice, especially when it comes to such important things as the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In that sense, I think that responsibility is highest in the leadership of the Assembly, and then, of course, to the leaders and chiefs of the majority and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50594	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50595	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a question for the President of the Republic, Mrs. Brnabic, Vice-President Dacic, and of course a question for Parliament – is what Serbia is now living part of some plan that we are not familiar with or are actually found in a situation that is due to absolute chaos that characterizes political relations not only with us in the country, or in the region, but is this a global definition of what we are currently living? The issue of regional relations must be answered through Serbia's very clear political stance. Are they the result of our inability to explain what the interests of Serbia are or are the problems we have with all our neighbours due to our inability to achieve our interests, legitimate and acceptable to others in a legitimate way? I mean relations with Montenegro, I mean relations with Macedonia, I mean relations with BiH, I mean relations with Croatia. I do not speak or claim that in these relations the responsibility for the climate created is exclusively here in Belgrade. I am interested – what is Belgrade doing to change these circumstances? The last example is this Kosovo crisis. We're going in on week three. So 840 dollars is Serbia's trade with CEFT countries, 50% of it's exchange with Kosovo. It's not just a matter of money. It is also a question of the atmosphere that is created under these measures, which is increasingly radical every day. Have we decided to accept as the official Kosovo policy that the policy insisting on is part of our political public, advocating a frozen conflict, i.e. avoiding a definitive solution to Serbia-Albanian relations. So how frozen and constant is this living thing, and will tomorrow be equal to what we survived yesterday? Of course not. We saw what the President of the Republic said yesterday. We're cornered. What are we doing? What's the Prime Minister's initiative? What does the Deputy Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, do? Not that everything we can do is that vulgar joke and adulation of the Austrian Chancellor and the quoting of teacher Michael Zastavnikovic's song – Who says that, who's lying about Serbia is small? Can anyone say what will happen in Kosovo in seven days? Does anyone know that? Relations with the EU, he was visiting Commissioner Han yesterday, but as far as I know, that visit was arranged three weeks ago. The trip to Kosovo was planned three weeks ago before these fees were introduced. If we expect someone else to handle it, who's the other one? I don't think he's here. That it is more than ever clear that there is no initiative here in Belgrade, and rather a clear plan behind which we can stand as MPs, as an institution, as a society. One day students protest, the second day doctors protest, the third day judges leave the courts, mayors and municipality presidents resign, Serbian list MPs close in Pristina in the Kosovo parliament. Every day is a new radicalization. I'm sure it's not part of some plan, just like it's clear to everyone that what we're living right now is that it's much more harmless than what we're going to live for tomorrow. We can have party differences and we've always had them, but something has to be sacred while we're at it. It's a matter of peace. We lack a clear political initiative and a plan. When will we get this initiative and this plan and will we face it when it becomes clear that in no way can we even talk about ourselves, or affect ourselves anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50596	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50597	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I'm asking the D.A.'s office when will he start doing his job? In Serbia, only one brave prosecutor is needed to come out and say – I want to do my job and the citizens will support it. It's not the first time things like this have happened in the region, something like this happened in Romania, something like that in Bulgaria. The prosecution has been silent for seven years about what is happening daily in Serbia. And there is absolutely no brave man presently who will say – yes, I want to bring justice to the citizens, I want to be the one who respects the law in Serbia. The prosecution, because this is the year Oliver Ivanovic was killed, this year ends. About a year ago, Oliver Ivanovic was accompanied by his son in the BIA at the end of December last year and gave a statement about who was threatening him, which is why he was threatened with life. A year later, the bia kept quiet about it. What exactly did Bratislava Gasic do to protect Oliver Ivanovic's life? Why didn't the MUP do absolutely anything to protect Oliver Ivanovic's life? Why was Oliver Ivanovic killed? Who is responsible for the political background of Oliver Ivanovic's murder? Why was he declared a traitor at RTS? Why was Pink on TV with a national frequency declared a traitor? Who ordered the videos against Oliver Ivanovic and is sitting in the ruling majority of Alexander Vukic's government? What did Alexander Vukic do to protect Oliver Ivanovic's life? How many times did Oliver Ivanovic ask Alexander Vukic for protection? How many times did he search and talk about his life being threatened? Who ordered that evidence be removed from the crime scene by members of the Serb nationality police at KIM in northern Kosovo Mitrovica? Why did Hashim Thaci say it was not a political murder, but a conflict of drug cartels in northern Kosovo? And why does Alexander Wolf keep quiet about it? What is the responsibility of today's regime because Oliver Ivanovic is no longer alive? In which court exactly is the polygraph a means of proof? And how can the President of the Republic say that one of the main suspects in the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, Milan Radojicic, is someone who is not responsible because he has passed the polygraph and how are we sure now that he has not participated in this criminal act in any way? The man Oliver Ivanovic himself spoke of as threatening him with the greatest danger. What kind of country does the prosecution keep quiet about when it comes to a monster crime because not only someone's father was killed, not just someone's husband, but one of the leaders of the opposition? How much pressure on the same prosecutor's office today in the Kruševec case when it comes to the qualification of the work against Borislav Stefanovic? That it's not about attempted murder, which is more than obvious and evident? If one in the prosecution dares to do his job properly, according to the law, they will have full support for the people of Serbia. It will have Serbia's full support, will have full support for people who want to continue living in this country. I expect the prosecution to launch an investigation either against top state officials, or against mobsters who call themselves patriots from northern Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50598	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50599	I thank the chairman. I refer the issue to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and I will refer to my colleague Bozovic with an additional question, not only of the question but also of asking Minister Stefanovic to provide me with information on persons now believed to be guilty of the blood beating of one of the opposition leaders, our fellow Serbian President Borko Stefanovic. Why are only those persons listed by the initials in official statements of government members and specifically Minister of Nebojsa Stefanovic, while on several occasions, I might say countless times, not only him, but other members of the government, as well as the President of the Republic, very often knew that he judges before the court, to appoint the guilty and past the prosecution, the police and the investigation, and how now does that cowardice give the three, as they say, self-organised beatings for which neither the SNS nor who of these are allowed to call the real name? So, I ask Minister Stefanovic's information that these adult persons, since the years of birth show this, are to deliver this information to the public. This information is of paramount importance not only to the public, but also to the life and society of this country. Normally, the question is that if the head of Borko Stefanovic and his other fellow parliamentarians were killed, considering them in some way more visible and public personality, it is normal to impose a question of how to live and survive ordinary citizens who are not protected by the public, who have no function, who have no back, who live in ordinary lives, who live in small communities and who have no one to protect them, and very often there is no one to hear them. So after a stick in Borko Stefanovic's head, about 13 hours and 15 minutes to about a kilometer from the village of Rakita was known for months after the rebellion of locals against the construction of a mini hydropower plant "Zvonce", certain investors of lawyer Belic from Belgrade and the co-investor, at least that's how he introduced himself to me when I was there on site a few days ago, Marjanovic, therefore, the security of these investors intercepted Daniel Dimitrov about a kilometer from this village, was with his mother at the time, except for stopping the jeep, pulling out wooden sticks, when a man was on the run, stoned him in the back several times until he managed to escape across the river. A few days ago when I was in Rakita, I spoke to the public after that, but of course I ask, as I said to the Minister of the Interior, Nebojsa Stefanovic, but not to the upstairs and president of the Government of Ana Brnabic - what do they think they do to this occasion while the people of Rakite suffer constant terror not only from investors, whom I mentioned, but also from members of the internal affairs, so employees of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, who not only protect more investors from the locals, but also provoke and even physically attack them? I personally witnessed it, watched them verbally provoked, physically moving to attack them, and to the reaction of the self-defense locals present police officers, therefore, employees of the MUP, for whom Nebojsa Stefanovic is responsible, wrote reports to the locals. They have up to this point dozens of criminal charges, so that police officers on the scene abuse their official position and threaten practically and intimidate these people to defend not only their own river, but also their own home. I demand the urgent reaction of Minister Stefanovic to answer me – how long will he watch this terror suffered by the people of Rakita? And, according to their information sent to me last night and this morning, they suggest they will be forced to move out of the Republic of Serbia, considering the Ministry and the Government responsible for inaction, to be the environmental refugees first from this country, and to escape the nearest, possibly Bulgaria and there to seek protection. I request urgent answers and ask that the minister and prime minister answer me – when will she finally go to this village, talk to the locals, explain to the investor that they are not the owners of their lives and that there is no need for a river of blood to flow as that water flows there?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50600	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50601	Respected citizens of Serbia, God helps everyone. My obligation, first of all, is to ask the question to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic – why for four days you have been silent about everything that is happening in Montenegro, where Serbian politicians are arrested, where they are being put in prisons, where they are threatened by the further arrest of other opposition leaders who are, of course, Serbs, where the decisions of the Podgorica Assembly on the unification of Serbia-Montenegro 100 years ago, where the Serbian language, the Serbian letter and the Serbian Church are being persecuted, and where for four days we do not have one word of the state of Serbia's reaction to this scandalous behaviour of the mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic? Why hasn't Alexander Vukic gone to Montenegro for six years to visit his countrymen there? Because he owes a lot to Mila Djukanovic, who introduced him into the world of the intelligence structures of the West, who linked him to Stanko Sutotic Canet, who gave him both the first pair and first contacts so he could come to power with the help of Western mentors in 2012. That is why Aleksandar Vukic is silent about Milo Djukanovic and must not say a word against this mob regime, and in time he saved him from the fall when he participated in a mounted, imaginary "state coup" affair. Why is he silent about Branko Milic at Serbia's embassy in Montenegro, which, as well as numerous other suspects and arrested in a fake affair, continues to suffer persecution of the Montenegrin regime? The second question also applies to Alexander Vukic and I ask him if he knows which Anro Danjan and whether he is seeing him and negotiating with him. demarcation, or recognition of an independent Kosovo? This is, therefore, a close friend of Hashim Thaci and Alexander Vukic, the famous French intelligence officer Anro Danžan, a man who participated in the Dayton Agreement, in Rambujeu, was on the mission of Javier Solana to KIM, a known NATO lobbyist among French diplomats, a European MP who stood up against Dick Marty when Dick Marti discovered the trafficking of human organs in KIM and accused the Cypriot terrorist regime of it and a man who at the moment secretly negotiates both with Hashim Thaci and with Alexander Vukic of the so-called "KIM". demarcation. What are they talking about? That independent Kosovo gets practically the entire KIM area plus the Presevo municipality up to one kilometer to Corridor 10 and highway and part of the Bujanovac municipality, and in return maybe a few meters north of KIM to belong to Serbia. Is it true or not what I'm saying, the only thing I know is that Alexander Vukic has been silent for three days since I first asked him if he knows Anro Danžan and is at this point secretly negotiating that he is not only KiM, but that he is also part of the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, so to speak. An independent Kosovo, because there is no distinction without recognition of an independent Kosovo, gentlemen of the advanced and socialists and all of you of the ruling regime. In order for there to be demarcation, Kosovo must first be recognised independently, because you cannot distinguish with a national minority in the territory of the Serbian state. It's never been anywhere. We differed with the Republic of Albania in 1927, when a protocol on the distinction between the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Albania was signed and there will be no more distinction between us and Albanians. To distinguish, divide KIM, make adjustments to borders, trade ours for ours, you must first recognise independent Kosovo, allow it to enter the UN and create a great Albania, therefore, to be sponsors of the creation of a great Albania. In the end, one very important and current question. As you know, these days, yellow vests are the most powerful vests in all of Europe, so here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia you can see a single yellow vest and show a big protest against abnormal, nadal and sick fuel prices in Serbia. What I want to show you here is that McCron, your friend, who comes here to complete negotiations and betray KIM, is today negotiating with yellow vests in France, even though they burned half the city, even though they've done who knows what kind of riots and demonstrations, and you're not going to negotiate with your citizens who are peacefully and dignifiedly protesting and looking for a normal price of fuel, but you're punishing them in violation. We want normal fuel, or you'll get yellow vests on the streets of Belgrade and all the cities of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50602	I thank my colleague. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now you've seen, you've seen everything. We knew you were yellow before, and we knew you didn't need a yellow vest. We know long ago when you went to Gilas, we know long ago that you traded this greeting for this one. We know, after the Hilandar robbery, what you did. We know you're yellow. We know that you and Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic pulled the borders on Brnjak for the 50,000 euros you took from Kolubara, from the Kolubara miners. We know it's a good thing you're a long yellow one. A long time ago. Now you just admit it. We know when you advocated the second round of boycott in 2012 to prevent change. We all know you don't have to wear the yellow vest. You don't need this masseuse next to you for fuel to block the patriarch. We know that you and the church broke off a long time ago. We know you've become more unfaithful. We know you're the Masons. Let's just say that this masseuse next to you wasn't in Brussels in parliament, that she's secretly negotiating with Albanians? Let's just say it wasn't two days ago, should I show you a photo? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if Borko Stefanovic obviously voted in favour of the Brussels Agreement, which is the best friend of the goddess of two cabbages. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's start with the first question, is it true that Marinika Tepic transferred 6.7 million to Dusan Jakovev, then vice president of the Vojvodina Assembly? The project was called "Golden Bridge - Sex for Beginners". So, that one province official transferred to another province official, 6.7 million dinars, and that resulted in an apartment behind Banovina. So 6.7 million was transferred to three tranches for a project called the "Golden Bridge – Sex for Beginners". Don't laugh. I didn't call it that. You know, these honest ones who say that this is a thieving power, so look, in 2014, 1,491,000, and 3,220,000, and then 1,600,000, here it is, transferred, the association was called “Skaska” at the address of Dusan Jakovev from Zrenjanin. This is the vice president of the circuit assembly. That's how it works, so Mrs. Marinika has to answer that. Furthermore, I question Boris Tadic's responsibility for getting a 600,000-euro car without public procurement. I ask the government, the ministry of justice, the prosecution – when will Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic be responsible for the murder of two soldiers in Karas, who are apparently killed? To cover up a drug dealer's stash in 2004, two young soldiers were brutally liquidated. The involvement of Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, who covered up the murder from the cabinets of the then-president of the Republic, is evident. Also, what will be done for the murder of Milan Pantic, whose murder is handled by the DS. Also, we're going in line, is it true, and I got the information that Albanian terrorists who released Kostunica and DS released in 2001, 2002, that they liquidated children on Bistrica in Gorazdevec in 2003? These are the ones who are now best friends with Bosko Obradovic. So, is it true that in Kosovo in 2001 the same terrorists released by the DS, 2,108 were released, with the Mazrek brothers in Podujevo raised a bus into the air, to Zaspornica in 2001, and then killed 12 Serbs? So, this one from Palanca, don't throw it away. There's no beer in Palanco, the truth is alive, all that's left is foam, drank by Heine Ken. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what will the prosecution do, and the prosecutor is Zagorka Dolovac, the godfather of Bojan Pajtic, doing purely for Balša, for the transfer of criminal money to Vuk Jeremic? I guess that's the money they got for betraying the country. He'll probably give a piece to Bosic as well. So, what will be done to examine in this country the flow of money, that honest, honest Kostunica's, or I don't know whose but, Wolf Jeremic, maybe a friend of Djoke Vlah, and they got some dinar out of it? So, you're looking into all the cash transactions and that's about the D.A.'s office giving me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50604	Thank you. The word has been made by fellow MP Jadranka Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50605	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to the finance minister. I'll explain what's going on. On 23 April 2019, 20 years from the inexplicable, uncivilised, first in the history of world war, the bombing of an information-media house, our RTS, in the framework of NATO bombings in Yugoslavia, against all international rights. As it is known, unfortunately, that's when 16 innocent people, civilians, died, doing their job, working with some of them and working together, and as many people were injured. As a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I was able to inform myself from State Secretary for Informing Alexander Gajovic that the RTS Management Board has launched an initiative, which it has adopted, to build a memorial centre for innocent victims. The RTS Management Board has also formed an organisation board at RTS, with the task of collecting all necessary building permits and all other documentation at the city level necessary to implement this proposal. Given that the Ministry of Culture and Information was rejected in its first address to the Ministry of Finance for additional funds that would cover the reconstruction of the part of the damaged RTS building during NATO bombing and the construction of the memorial centre, my question for the finance minister is – can this position be revised and the funds requested be approved? I believe it would be difficult to find a man, I actually want to believe that it would be hard to find someone who would be against building this memorial center, which would not only be a symbol of grief and regret for innocently injured people that night, but a time-long civilizational reminder of what happened, and what should never have happened to us, or anyone on the globe, for everything that happened to us back then, for all the force and the way that this force fell upon us. As many civilizations before us have left signs and clues for future generations, this future memorial centre would certainly be one reminder to all mankind. Now I can't look back, and I don't underline that our obligation to mark the persecution and suffering of our people, for example. It happened only a few years ago, with the pawnage, attitude and determination of the Prime Minister then and now our President, Alexander Vukic. Therefore, for the construction of a memorial centre for innocent victims, employees of RTS during NATO bombings, we must not miss that year in 2019. So I ask the finance minister to revise his position and approve additional funds for the construction of this memorial mark. Let me just have one more thing. With great joy and pride, I received news that our president has received international recognition for peace, at such a difficult and serious moment in which our country is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50606	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president answering for a word? (No) We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Nebojsa Tomic, Director of the Central Register of Obligor Social Insurance, Mirjana Cojbašić and Irena Injac, senior advisers in the Budget Sector at the Ministry of Finance. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50607	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are talking about the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, but we are also talking about the draft budget for next year. That's my impression, but not just an impression, but one fact that this budget proposal is significantly better than the previous one. One of the reasons I think so is the fact that I haven't heard significant arguments from the opposition that would speak against this finding of mine. Besides, it's enough to look at Section 27 of this budget. In Section 27 on health care, I must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of what changes are involved and what amount of financial resources are intended for healthcare. In 2017, therefore, for health care in the Republic of Serbia, in any sense, 11594,666,000 dinars were identified. Already in the following year, so in 2018, that figure was 17,380,099,000 dinars. The projected amount in this budget is 18,712,691,000 dinars. The numbers tell us everything. The difference between 2017 and this amount, which was projected in this budget, is related to health care, is seven billion dinars. I must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that during the rule of the former government there was no fund in general, a budget fund for the treatment of disease, condition or injury that cannot be treated successfully in our country. We, in fact, have a fund today whose resources are being treated, first of all children, so first of all, children who are suffering from those diseases that cannot be treated successfully in our country and this fund is constantly over the years, so for this fund, the money mass that is intended for these very indications is constantly increasing. In 2017, this sum was 261.40.000 dinars, in 2018, 268,946,000 dinars, while for this year the sum foreseen for treating such persons, which cannot be successfully treated in our country is 475,161,000 dinars. Based on these examples that I'm telling you right now, these concerns about citizens, the concern about the patient being always at the heart of the health system, the concern that what was missing in some past period, about health care, is to be compensated in this way. This is not just about the budget fund I'm talking about, this is about the funds related to primary health care, secondary health care, the supply of medical equipment, capital investment in healthcare, etc. etc. As chairman of the Health and Family Committee, as a doctor of the profession, I can only welcome these increases, and I must appeal that even in the next budget it will be seen in a similar way as it is today, and I absolutely wish you success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50608	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The First Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50609	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have a few suggestions or remarks I would like to say now about the budget. It is evident that Serbia is in a very difficult position and I understand that it was neither easy nor easy to make a budget that would meet the needs of all of us, but what is ahead of us? If we want to compete with other countries, and if we want to survive, we need to pay more attention to what is called knowledge, to what is called mind. It's our only weapon that we can fight with all these white-world strawberries that have gone so hard on Serbia. I therefore expect that in the future in the coming year and the finance minister is there, there will be more funding for education, more funds for culture and health, because these are the three basic pillars on which each state rests. I know it's not easy to do everything the way we'd like to, but I think there must be a way to find a way to give special attention to education, because that's the only way Serbia will be able to deal with all the problems it has. On the other hand, I also wanted to remind the minister of areas near the borders in undeveloped areas where they too had to be given a little more attention, or to be granted a little more funds. From what I've seen, Black Grass has won at the same level as last year 89,000,000 of these transfer funds and as so far, local self-government and citizens will try to make the best use of those funds. I think the minister could have saved the bag a little bit so that it could help that environment a little bit more, especially when she suffered a major flood disaster in the past, the bridges, the roads destroyed, and so on. One more thing for the Ministry of Health what I've seen on the ground, health institutions are entering the accreditation process and what I think should change there. Accreditation costs them a million and a half dinars. For a million and a half dinars, they can buy two vehicles and these are the funds they have to provide from personal funds. They're not from the budget. Well, I think that little health minister should be able to account for, especially for these state institutions, because they don't work on the principle of profit. Their services are largely free of charge and serve to benefit all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50610	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here you go, Mr. Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50611	I thank the chairman. Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft budget for 2019 that is always the best indicator of how one government works. This budget shows that we have done well, because these budgets have created a space to improve citizens' living standards, we have provided resources for even more intensive economic progress, but also funds to invest in infrastructure that will push our GDP growth. You know, in the last few days, we could hear really funny criticisms from the opposition about this budget. Well, let's say one of the critics, they say, is not a good deficit, but it's not even a good budget surplus. Look, he says it's no good that the surplus in the budget is 54.5 billion dinars. And, you know, it worked when they had the deficit, when in 2008, there was a 72 billion deficit, or minus 72 billion in the budget, when in 2009, there was minus 127 billion in the budget, when in 2010, there was 1401 billion in the budget, when there was minus 163 billion in the budget, and when in 2012, there was minus 245 billion in the budget, we were in front of bankruptcy. Gentlemen, that's what they left for us. And what's it like at a time when SNS is leading Serbia? Already in 2015, we had a minus 141 billion, so 110 billion less than in 2012. In 2016 we had minus 54 billion and already in 2017 we had surpluses, or plus in the budget of 33.9 billion dinars, so that in 2018 this surplus would be 54.5 billion dinars. The opposition experts say we have the smallest GDP growth in the region, and we have a cumulative growth of as much as 4.5%, and imagine in 2009, they had a growth of less than 3.1%. So their growth was down, gentlemen, and we're at 4.5%. And if we know that GDP is all we produce in one year, then we need to understand how important this growth is. I have this one table, and I really don't know where they pulled this data from. This is a table which, therefore, is the IBRD, i.e. the European Bank for Reconstruction in Development and writes very clearly, Croatia 2.7%, Slovakia 3.9%, Slovenia 4.2%, Bosnia 3%, Bulgaria 3.6% and that I do not read all of Serbia 4.5%. So these are clear indicators of how far we're going and how well we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50612	Thank you, colleague Michin. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50613	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, let me refer to the previous speaker's comment, so in the 2019 budget and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Culture have a higher budget in figures, as a percentage of the Ministry of Education by 6% higher budget, health by 7.7%, and culture by 8.1%. More importantly, I would like to share a good news with you and with the citizens of Serbia, and yesterday as the Republic of Serbia, in one day we returned a billion and 30 million dollars of old debt. One billion and 30 million dollars, that's about 890 million euros, and we didn't repay that debt by refinanced or reprogrammed it, but we raised money from the savings we made in the budget and in one day that old debt was paid back. It's important news for Serbian citizens. We have thus fallen to 54.1% in percentages from 56.1% of public debt in GDP. So in one day for two percentage points, that says how these past loans can come back and how much this means for the stability of our public finances and, of course, for those growth rates and the future we want to achieve. When we look at our economic indicators this year, so - 4.5% GDP growth in the first nine months of this year; never less unemployment 11.3%; 370,000 new jobs and new employees in the last four years; our budget surplus is 68 billion dinars for the first nine months, or ten months of this year; our participation and share of public investment is growing from year to year. (Marco Djurisic: Time! ) These are the real indicators that show that Serbia is on a good path to economic recovery, economic development and exactly the 2019 budget is in favour of continuing this growth, that we have to pay back old debts, that we have to reduce the share of public debt in our GDP and reduce unemployment, open new factories and fight for every man who needs to stay, start his family and get his future in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50614	Thank you, Minister Mali. My colleague Đurisic, it's good news, so I let the minister go. (Marco Djurisic: False news! No, no, good news for our country. You're looking forward to it, too. (Marko Djurisic: 2013 Debt is back! ) The word is, according to the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50615	Thank you very much. It would be interesting if the minister told us what the structure of that debt that was paid back was, perhaps, some bonds or charters of values that were issued in 2013, when the same coalition that today was in power? So it's not long... It's a good thing it's returned, whatever's returned, just so it doesn't turn out to be the debts of some previous authorities. Now, let's see exactly what that is, and what is today's nominal level of our public debt, and what are the plans of the Serbian government to repay that debt to the period, let's say, in 2004, when it was nine billion euros, and today it's 23, 24, 25 billion? It would also be interesting to teach a colleague from the same party that, of course, the surplus is a better variant than the deficit, but that it is also not good and that what is the right measure of a good budget is a balance. That means the year ends with zero. If the surplus is big, it means that it was either a bad plan, so a mistake was made, or that it was taken too much from taxpayers, which means they were poored, whether they were citizens, whether they were economic operators, or, the third option, that they were not given enough to the users of the budget, which means that they were living business, whether they were social contributions, whether it was culture, health care or anything, education, was denied for one part of the money that could give some public service that would benefit all Serbian citizens. So the balanced budget is what's trying to do, not the surplus budget. The surplus budget is only used to fascinate people who have no idea about the economy. (Alexander Markovic: Like you, for example. It is, unfortunately, the fate of what we have been suffering for the past six years. Finally, 2%, 3% increase, 5% increase for culture, science and education, that's pathetic. So our culture budget is the smallest in Europe, and that reflects the level of culture of those who have run this country in the last six, seven years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50616	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50617	Thank you very much. Dear Serbian citizens, I think it is quite clear that every surplus and any savings is better than the deficit. The 2012 deficit was 6.6% of our GDP, and we now have a surplus 0.5%. So they were down by 6.6%, and we're in plus 0.5%, so see if it's better or not better. It is better, citizens of Serbia. So it's better to have 70 billion dinars in your account than to have a minus 6.6% of GDP, which they spent, and that's why we grew the share of public debt in our GDP. Of course, it's good news when you pay back a billion and 30 million dollars from your savings. That debt, sir, is from 2013, which returned your old loans and everything you left to these children and these people here, to the citizens of Serbia. Let me tell you one more thing, that there is no debt, that's 900m euros, consider that the construction of the Niš Clinical Centre cost 50m euros, we could have been 18 or 19 clinical centres in Nis to make sure that we hadn't been in debt since 2008, and so on. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50618	Comrade Zivkovic, you have no basis. The minister answered your question. (Zoran Zivkovic: I was misread. No, he answered your question. You'll get another chance. Do you want to follow the amendment? (Zoran Zivkovic: No. I really don't mind having a replica and any right, but you don't. Then give me your word, don't talk to me. All right, be polite, please. (Zoran Zivkovic: No, be present! A colleague of Radeta heard what you said to me, but, come on, we're used to you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dalibor Radicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50619	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. I intend to further define the proposed law by amendment. Article 1 is a defined area governed by the law, and I have tried further to point out the need for the existence of such a central register of compulsory social security, as well as the importance of the Central Register for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The central register represents a database that is electronically operated and based on IT technologies. The bill provides a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records that exist in Serbia, all with a view to ensuring that the more accurate data on mandatory social security, as well as data on whether contributions are paid on this basis. It is easy to determine whether there are irregularities and can react immediately by notifying the Tax Administration in order to carry out detailed controls. In this way, it can definitely affect the achievement of a high percentage of mandatory social security charges, and it also improves the level of enforcement of legal obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50620	Thank you, colleague Radicevic. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people has received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50621	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Mali, respected ministry gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about amendments to the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance. The basic source of funding for compulsory social insurance, pension and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance are contributions and in this respect I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. In Article 1 The bill adds Article 2 and reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving health conditions." Namely, Article 1. The draft law provides for an area governed by law, which is the establishment, bodies, activity of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, as well as their relationship with mandatory social security organisations, i.e. institutions which are of the importance of payment of contributions. The draft law provides for a regular monthly analysis and coordination of data from the Central Register on the payment of the employer's contribution bonds and insurance with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security and the notification of the Tax Administration of all observed irregularities. For the sake of further action, a high level of payment of contributions to compulsory social security and improvement of health conditions can certainly be achieved. For example, besides the new Niš Clinical Centre, funds are provided for the budget for the reconstruction of the Niš Clinical Centre of 10 million 461 thousand, as well as the budget fund for treating disease or injury that cannot be successfully treated in Serbia, amounting to 475 million and 161 thousand dinars. This large investment is possible through the Central Register, i.e. Electronic database management, based on IT technology, all in order to improve the quality of data on employees of public funds, which will aim to improve health conditions and further define these submitted amendments. However, I must say something about yesterday's performance of a part of the opposition. Since it is open against the strategic interests of the Republic of Serbia, the quasi elite depicted in one part of the opposition, means not to the government of the opposition, but to the Republic of Serbia the opposition, who knows which path shows that it does not care about the survival of Serbia, but only to the taking of power. They are an example of a revolutionary consciousness that does not matter the fate of the community, but that through the authorities and holding important social positions, this quasi elite is successfully reproduced in a governing and financial sense, which is only important to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50622	Comrade Rancic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50623	No, no, I have to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50624	Finish it, but get back to the amendment. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50625	I'll be back. The problem is that many politicians practicers remain in the state of mind of Friday, where the government allows for the destruction of the state, civil unrest and conflicts on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50626	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50627	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security, with special reference to the protection of socially sensitive, or vulnerable groups. First of all, I have to say that the efficient public administration is and what a significant driver of economic development. I must also point out that one of the government's strategic definitions is digitisation, that one of the government's strategic definitions is electronic data exchange, that today in the open data world, the data that is suitable for electronic exchange, is spoken of as new oil, and I must point out that our government is on the way of the Fourth Industrial Revolution very successfully, which is on the way of digitisation and electronic data exchange. Why is electronic data exchange important, from the point of view of the public and from the aspect of the economy? Because electronic data exchange saves time for businesses, saves time for citizens and thus contributes to an efficient public administration and, of course, creates preconditions for faster economic growth. There are no better indicators to protect socially sensitive and vulnerable groups and there are no better indicators for a successful social policy and for a successful socio-protective function of the state than adequate economic policy. And what we've noticed is that over the last three years, we've been recording surpluses in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we're recording GDP growth, we're recording an increase in the number of unemployed, we're recording inflation within the limits of target values, or within the limits of European values. Otherwise, at the time of today's budget critics, inflation was two figures, it was about 12%, while today it moves within 2.1%. Of course, unemployment in their time was 26%, and today unemployment is the smallest and is at a historic minimum, 11.3%. What I must commend, and as regards the activities of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, these are their activities through the project "Baby, Welcome to the World". The issue of population policy, the issue of demographics, the issue of life and birth, was first placed on the government's agenda by the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic. It is the issue of population policy that is a strategic issue in the division of the ministry dealing with population policy, and these funds for this year have been increased, and they relate to transfers to local self-government and they amount to 650 million in 2018, 61 local self-government. It has been approved through projects of around 500 million dinars to promote demographic measures and implement population policy. I must also point out that this government is very responsible for protecting the family with children, so for the needs of family and children, just over 55 billion dinars have been provided. This project "Bebo, welcome to the world" and how important it is, since maternity care can be reported for birth in 15 minutes, a unique number of citizens can be obtained, a health book can be obtained at home. At the time of those who had robbed 12 years and who had committed the real massacre of the economy, who had fired more than 400,000 workers, it was not possible. That is why this budget is also important in terms of protecting the most vulnerable and vulnerable, from the aspect of life and progress of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50628	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50629	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, People's MPs, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is contained in Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the central register and the electronic management of the databases and electronic services, based on IT technologies. This law provides a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, allowing for more effective and faster exercise of rights and respect for requests regarding electronic data exchange between state authorities, i.e. e. e. e-government. The aim is to increase the efficiency of both the Central Register and other bodies and organisations, the users of data from the Central Register. How much the electronic administration has improved and facilitated the lives of Serbian citizens, says the e-turn system, which operates in four cities in our country and has 22,000 registrations annually, submitted by electronic means, without going to any counter. The e-baby system also releases parents of administrative procedures at the birth of a child and ends by electronic means. All this says that the government of Serbia's policy is moving forward with the global development of digitisation, as one of the key to economic growth. The prime minister, Ana Brnabic, also stressed in her exposé in 2017 that a more transparent and modern administration is the key to Serbia's sustainable economic growth, as the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50630	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50631	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the government, respected colleagues, is the intensity of this amendment to point to the importance of this law, but also to the importance of the overall work on the health system in the Republic of Serbia and all that the Government is doing in this field. In fact, the health of each individual is a basic condition and a prerequisite for all other social activities, i.e. the activity of one individual. So is the health of the nation the prerequisite for all other social events. To achieve that goal, the equipment of health institutions and organisations involved in the health of the population is very important. We are witnessing that this has not always been on a satisfactory level in the past. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will remind you only of the Kamenica 2 projects, if you will, in the end, also of the project of building a social protection facility at Vienna and many others. Fortunately, today we have something different, in fact, a very different situation. They know citizens in southern Serbia about what was done at the Clinical Centre in Nis. The entire central Serbia knows very well about everything that has been done at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade. But here, because of citizens in northern Serbia, above all from Subotica, 20m euros are scheduled for next year when it comes to the general hospital in Subotica. The reconstruction of 35,000 square metres of hospital space, but also thousands of square squares of the hospital yard, is scheduled. My amendment is precisely symbolic support for these and such processes, teams and such jobs, but also support what people at the Institute of Health "Mother and Child" did yesterday by saving a year-old child from Vrčina. We really need to welcome this great heroic act and the efforts that our people in health make. A kind of message to the citizens of Serbia is here we will never allow again a situation where health care will be at that level that the health minister himself goes abroad to be treated. We will never again allow a situation where the interior minister will be killed by a prime minister to make progress. We will not allow the situation of the culture minister to be a man who speaks for women in Serbia the terms of courtesy that cannot even say in this parliament, but also that the culture minister is a man who admires the image and work of Jovan Divjak, a murderer, a man who killed 46 soldiers in Dobrovoljacka Street in Sarajevo, a man who was idolous by Naser Oric, who killed 3,500 people in the vicinity of Srebrenica during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With that in mind, this amendment of mine is to support the work that we do and the reminders and messages to the citizens that we will never allow you and any other bad things ever again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50632	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. After the amendment, Radoslav Milojic appeared. Here you go, Mr. Milojich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50633	Thank you. I'm glad the previous speaker mentioned healthcare and hospitals in Serbia. The centre of this budget should be citizens who are getting harder and harder to live for seven years, who don't have enough money in their wallet, enough fuel in the tank, and enough food in the fridge because the SNS took their salaries, took their pensions, reduced their living standards, increased their excise duties, increased their electricity prices, increased fuel prices. But when we talk about health care, this is a hospital in Smederevska Palanca. In March of this year, you promised a complete reconstruction. Of course, because there were then elections in Smederjevska Palanca and since then no single minister has come to Smederjevska Palanka. This is how it will be in the valley, and in the Lucians, and in the Tower, and in all the municipalities, you come, and you lie, and you go. It's your policy for seven years. This is an Infectious Clinic, since the previous speaker spoke about health care. Look, Minister, what does the Infectious Clinic look like, if you can. That's the budget. The budget is that you have not paid a single dinar to the locals of Smederevska Palanka for 10 months, the rest of them are the rage of roofs over their heads, especially the townspeople of Golobok. Over 500 households have been destroyed, and one single dinar has not been paid off as damages due to natural disasters. That's what we need to talk about in this budget. You're giving 250m euros for the stadium. And that you have that money in the budget, that the state of the country is ideally, I support, I continue to play active football and I have played football all my life, aside from the stadium of the Red Star, Partizan, Obilić, OFK Belgrade, you're building a 250m-euro stadium, not with our funds, but with our children's resources, because you're in charge of the European Investment Bank, you're in charge of the stadium. It would mean like if a citizen didn't have a roof on his house, and he buys a picture and puts it on the wall. No, you need to fix the roof first. But you're not hosts, you don't know how to handle the budget. You're borrowing 250m euros for the stadium, and you're cutting the culture budget. Why? Well, because you punish those who see that your authority is devastating to the citizens of Serbia and who have the courage to say that. You owe us 10 billion euros in seven years of your boast and corrupt government, 10 billion euros. And don't say you hired us to pay back our debts. If I take 100 euros from Mr. Zivkovic and borrow from Mrs. Tepic to return those 100 euros, I owe the same 100 euros to only a different person. Don't think the citizens of Serbia don't understand. Ten billion euros in debt to Serbia. While Serbian citizens are getting poorer, your bank accounts are getting richer and richer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50634	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50635	Dear MPs, I've already talked about this, so I will repeat, since many have forgotten that the public debt situation has been going on in our country since 2007 and beyond. So since 2008, there has been a dramatic increase in public debt in our country. From 8.8 billion euros, the debt grew 12% to 9.8 in 2009, so by an additional 23% to 12.1 billion euros in 2010, and by an additional 20.1% to 14.8 billion in 2011, so 14.8 rose to 17.8, so 20% higher in 2012. Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, this is probably for the history of irresponsible behaviour and the way the state of Serbia financed itself at that time, with not only an increase in public debt in those years, you also have a reduction in our country's GDP. So, they not only owed all the citizens of Serbia, but they financed themselves in the way they reduced and reduced our GDP, economic activity and never had more unemployment because of it. In 2013, ladies and gentlemen, unemployment in the Republic of Serbia is over 25%. And I just told you that yesterday we paid back a billion and 30 million dollars of old debt, we gave it back, and we reduced the share of our public debt. It was almost 80%, now it's 54.1%. This is good news for Serbian citizens and this is an example of responsible economic policy. We've never had less unemployment than it is today. We fight for every new job. (Marco Djurisic: Time.) We fight for every new factory. We fight for every child who needs to find a job in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50636	Thank you. I'm asking my colleagues not to get it. (Marko Djurisic: We ask the minister not to lie. () Answer the word, colleague Đurisic, there is no problem. Don't throw it away. I don't expect that from you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50637	We've already talked about this matter of relations with the Smederjev Palanca here. We were already talking about it when we talked about how the Serbian Army helped the citizens of this country. And we've already reminded those who would like it if no one in this country remembered it, that just then the Army was helping citizens in that place, while whoever was in charge, whose main job was to take care of that place and the citizens who live there, at the time, was trying to achieve a world record of drinking beer in a local bar, in a nearby pub. So it's a relationship to the place. As citizens see it all as they interpret it and how grateful they are to the state on the one hand, that is to the man who, in their misfortune, had a job to take care of them, and only to lose power, to run out of water, and to be devastated in every sense, these citizens had already spoken. He was showing some pictures here before, of course, he started talking about debt and other things he didn't understand at all. So, this story, you know, I lend you, you lend me, so let's see how much it's in the end. It's on the level of Dragan Gilas. You've heard for sure that Dragan Gilas explains the benefits of these mechanisms, but somehow he always forgets to talk about the terms of the debt, somehow always forgets interest, so when those interest rates get lost from each account, you get the story level "a la little Perica" like that across the street. He was showing pictures and I was trying to see from here if there were any of those fantastic images of Belgrade from the time of Dragan Gilas. You know, that garbage that's rolling the streets, those torn-up containers, and all paid and overpaid in millions of euros, and right from the citizens of the capital. I was trying to see, but I didn't see if he showed a picture of "Hetherland", if he showed a picture of a ruin that was supposed to cost a million euros, to arrange for our children. In the end, there was a ruin, a million disappeared, and the children were stolen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50638	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50639	Last sentence. Speaking of which, Bojan Pajtic is personally responsible for him. Do you know what Bojan Pajtic and Dragan Djilas said about the chairman of the DS Municipal Committee in Ruma Nenad Borovic? He says they filled their pockets, that Gilas and Pitiæ are lopurde. That's what the chairman of their board says.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50640	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50641	One more sentence. So, the two of them made it possible to get the money through the 13% green interest rates into their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50642	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has Bosko Obradovic, after the amendment, and then Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50643	Thank you, Chairman. Like everyone else, by amendment. I think it's really scandalous that here any lectures are given to us by one of the former chiefs of the Privatisation Agency since 5 October 2000, Sinisha Mali, the man of the DS of that time, the man of that regime who sold his beliefs, his political views and now faithfully serves Alexander Vukic. So it's all about what's the credibility of what, anything he says today. All he says here is Facebook news, fake news, empty stories, trying to distract Serbian citizens that something's going on, and what's your price of fuel in Serbia, Mr. Mali? How much longer do you plan to rob Serbian citizens in 2019? It seems to me 200m euros over the last few years that the budget has been charged by robbing pensioners, robbing carriers, robbing farmers in particular, robbing people employed by the state administration, local self-government. You mean that way to show some surpluses? By robbing your own citizens? It's not a surplus. It's called a robbery. Why aren't you your friend Miskovic, who you raised that glass of champagne with, when you toasted the Delta Holding celebration, additionally taxed? Why didn't you additionally tax foreign banks in Serbia that are pulling skins off citizens' backs? Why didn't you further tax these thieves, public executioners who robbed and destroyed families in Serbia? Why didn't you pay extra taxes on tycoons? Has anyone robbed Serbia in the past 30 years? What's not in jail? Why aren't you in jail, Mr. Mali, for what you did within the Agency... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50644	I see no reason for you to speak to the Minister in this way, to insult him. So you're free to say what you're up to, but to accuse someone here in such a way, it really doesn't make sense. Please continue in one democratic tone, nothing else. Don't insult me. There's no need to insult the minister or anyone in this room. Sign up again. You can learn, there's Professor Korać, about public appearances, normal behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50645	Thank you, Chairman. I think here the minister insulted the citizens of Serbia, that someone who sat in the Privatisation Agency is giving us lectures here, it's a humiliation to all of us. When will he be responsible for what he did at the time he destroyed Serbian businesses? When will he be responsible for what they did today when they sell the PKB, when they sell RTB Bor for the Buddha, why, when they sell to Belgrade Airport, when they destroy the Serbian village with an import lobby that imports everything here that we can produce and kill the competition of domestic producers? What's the price of fuel? Where are your subsidies for farmers? You've reduced them from 14 grand to 4 grand. You're robbing your own people. You've raised taxes, you've raised taxes, you've raised taxes, you've raised taxes on property, you've raised the price of fuel, so you've filled the budget for robbing your own people. Don't brag about it. It's a shame and a shame. Don't give us that class here. Yesterday, a colleague, Martinovic, said one good thing. I agree with him that the English and Americans are masters in the collapse of the regime. Of course, the English and Americans knocked down the former regime because it wouldn't hand over KIM and bring Alexander Vukic, because he wanted to hand over KIM and sign the Brussels Agreement. The English and Americans are the great masters who brought Alexander Vukic here to power. That's what you need to know. You are a regime that works for the interests of foreign forces and destabilises this country. You bring foreign investors here. You don't give anything to a domestic businessman or a farmer. You're destroying a Serbian peasant. What's the price of raspberries? What's the price of plum? What's the price of the coupon? What is the price of basic agricultural products in Serbia? How will a Serbian peasant sow a new agricultural season? How, when you robbed him, with this price of fuel, with such small subsidies? Who do you tell these empty stories of success, of surpluses, of this or that? No one's gonna believe that anymore. All people see how they live. What are people running from this country? What left you 70,000 people last year? What makes 40,000 people less born than they die every year? We're running out of 100,000 people. Do you know we've fallen below seven million inhabitants? Do you know that last year, the smallest baby was born in Serbia in the last 100 years? Is this the golden age in which we live under this authority of yours? It's a disaster, not a golden age. That is why we in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have raised our voice. We no longer allow you to lie to this people, to tell empty stories with these false amendments, to kill time to discuss the right topics. When are we going to talk about KIM here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? When about the fuel price? How many people received criminal charges and were the worst punished just because they protested against the price of fuel? The French president is today talking to those who burned Paris, talking to them, and the Prime Minister is already planning to meet them with certain measures. What do we need to do? Let's all go out like this with yellow vests on the streets of Belgrade and don't know what we're doing so you can listen to your own citizens. You're not listening to anyone outside the foreign ambassadors. Why doesn't he leave the government with Ramush Haradinaj? Which your MPs don't come out of what's-his-name. Kosovo Parliament? What are they sitting there in government and parliament? Because it's all arranged... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50646	Comrade Obradovic, I understand you and you have delegated a political topic, but what does Finance Minister Sinisha Mali have to do with Ramush Haradinaj and KIM? (Bosko Obradovic: Where are the other ministers?) We're talking about this amendment, you answered, you got the word, please talk about the subject. Don't start a fire without need. This session can run perfectly normal, ask him about the price of fuel, about whatever you want about the budget, as you started. There's no reason to make tensions. Really, please, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of the 21 ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, at the most important assembly session of the year, a minister sits here. Who should I ask? Where is your Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? Where are your 20 ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What am I supposed to talk to Cynthia Mali, who was involved in destroying this country and privatizing our most important state-owned enterprises? What am I supposed to talk to him about? He needs to answer for it. This is the topic we want to talk about today, and you cannot stop us from telling the truth to the citizens of Serbia. You cannot stop your false amendments from arguing at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I know it's easy for you to take up the opposition's time, but why don't you take down the big Albanian flag in Presevo when someone points out? Why didn't you leave that scandalous ceremony in Paris, where this nation was humiliated for the 100th anniversary of the World War I victory? So that's the truth about all of you. Why don't you respond to the situation in Montenegro? Where's your foreign minister to ask him that? The arrests of Serbs in Montenegro haunt the Serbian church, abolish Serbian language and letter. Where are you? Shut up, while our countrymen in Montenegro have such problems. It's you. You have abolished the Serbian Ministry in the region and the diaspora. What are you guys even doing? Who do you work for? I'll tell you who you work for -- for public executioners robbing Serbian citizens, for Ramush Haradinaj, for Hashim Thaci, for your coalition partners, for Tony Blair and Bill Clinton, for your friends, for foreign banks, for foreign investors, for foreign ambassadors. You don't work for Serbian citizens. You work for strangers and give them our money from the budget you robbed from the Serbian poor. (Marinika Tepic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50648	Just one moment. Vladimir Orlic. Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50649	Well, since we've already come to the Paris topic, for all the talk made by the co-ordinator Dragan Gilas, who I would say is already getting ready for a new communal career, Professor Rajmon Daron said once on occasion – God, what a bunch of nonsense. He mentioned this co-ordinator, Dragan Gilas, who is preparing for a communal career or will join the Lakers, I don't know exactly what he's planning, credibility. So when a man who today is a liar of Dragan Gilas tells you these things, and in October 2013 he said the following words, I'll read them, you figure out how much credibility there is. Then he said -- Dragan Gilas quickly and easily crossed the path from student leader to tycoon media tycoon. So the tycoon was, according to his current coordinator. He entered Gilas in the media business during the Slobodan Milosevic regime when it was possible or foreign agents, this is an interesting, or reliable married couple in power. It is unknown what he was doing until 2004 when he became a member of the Democratic Party. But while he was in public office, it is all claimed by his co-ordinator today, during his public functions he increased his capital hundreds of times, as we speak, and that's what he said, and that's what he said: Gilas, the greatest asset, has been resold by advertising seconds to RTS, and this is interesting, by hiring his services companies in Belgrade, whose mayor, even more interesting, is by getting state-owned companies under the control of his party or foreign companies, while we are at who funded, who previously enabled the privileged business and robbery privatisation when we are at the robbery. I can see that they're terribly eager for some kind of riot, demolating Belgrade, burning cars and things like that. Since they will never be accompanied by such things by any of the citizens, if they are eager to do such things, let one proposal come before the Assembly and, if it is up to them, let them burn ritually all the things that hold their heavy pockets, let them ritually burn their expensive ties, their expensive suits, and all the other people's backs are peeled off, and when they talk about KIM, they are welcomed by Behjet Pacolli.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50650	Thank you. Thank you. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Before that, I forgot to tell my colleague, Obradovic, can turn around and ask his colleague, Aleksandr Markovic, who was in Montenegro the other day and saw Milan Knezevic and other colleagues. So go ahead, the man's here, ask him, don't replace the thesis. Thank you. Marinika Tepic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50651	I thank the chairman. You have just done the fourth violation of the Rules of Procedure by addressing your colleague Obradovic unfounded. Don't argue with him from there, come down and break. You can only explain a done breach of the Rules of Procedure. In a few minutes, three injuries you've done. First Article 27, which obliges you to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. You have interrupted Bosko Obradovic twice by distracting him against insulting Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. The fact that your MP group chose him as finance minister doesn't upset him with everything he's done in his previous life. And you can't put words in someone's mouth to represent their position. Don't interrupt the MPs for that. You're not us, we're not you, thank God, and don't do that, otherwise you'll do what you did yesterday. We're not giving up. So we realized that yesterday's maneuver and President Maja Gojkovic allegedly gave a word to everyone to talk about what they wanted and how much they wanted, so much so that she didn't last two or three hours, then she held the microphone herself for two or three hours trying to bring her trauma here to all of us, and it's good that she failed. The third time you hurt the Rules of Procedure, that is, the second time you interrupted him because of the alleged insult of Minister Cynthia Malo, asking - what does he have to do with KIM? So whose minister is he? This government has boasted here as many times as it pays, sends and as it promotes development in Kosovo and Metohija, in municipalities that are there, as far as I know. How do you think it doesn't have anything to do with that? And for the third time, when you denied me the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, giving the first replica to Vladimir Orlic. You know very well it's against the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you, here's a calm tone, please don't be afraid of your right side. The fact that they're sufling you to break the Rules of Procedure, don't work anymore, we won't give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50652	Thank you. I ask the MPs to die. Please, colleague Obradovic, this is freedom of movement. Human rights are respected here. No one's gonna get hurt 'cause he's passed through some corridor. Please don't. (Bosko Obradovic: I absolutely agree. ) Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50653	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens... (Radoslav Milojic: He has now passed this way.) How can you not be ashamed? )......................................................................................................... There's no throwing in during the speech. And as my colleagues spoke, I calmly went through the passage of the National Assembly, an unheard throw by Bosko Obradovic sent to me, swearing to my mother, my mother died... (Bosko Obradovic: How are you not ashamed? )......................................................................................................... Tossing about thieving. The man who stole Hilandar took his right to throw someone away. Then Mr. Heineken, who stole the entire Smederevska Palanka, whom the D.A. is charged with 459 million, found himself entitled to throw. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it doesn't matter. The important thing is they're trying to ban an individual passage. They told me not to come through here. Is this state free, did I advocate that this country be a democratic, free state or did I advocate that they are more of a race, that they can ban us from submitting amendments, that they can ban us from submitting proposals, that they can forbid us from speaking, that they can forbid us from promoting ourselves, that they can forbid us from defending the government? So are they allowed to be MPs of prominent values, that they may also have the right to say to anyone that he is forbidden to enter and pass through the passage of the National Assembly? You, Mr. Chairman, were certainly a witness, as well as fellow MPs, the outrageous vandalism of Bosko Obradovic and Mr. Milojic. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50654	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. I call all MPs to reasonable and polite conduct. There's no need to defend anyone or insult each other here. In order for this session to go further and to return to this topic, I'm setting a three-minute break, so we'll move on with our work. [[after breaks]] Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm sorry, he was. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. He's not here. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50656	The respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, respected fellow MPs, is one of the laws that shows that this government together with all the laws on this agenda, and with the budget, has full seriousness and is doing everything necessary to ensure that citizens live in a stable and state that can exercise all their rights. As it used to be, I don't have to repeat, they know very well who and what and how they did it for them. What I was about to ask, but at this point a colleague in a yellow vest is missing, I suppose he had to be marked as a coordinator in order to know the MPs of his alliance for new lies, fraud and embezzlement to whom to address. That's probably the reason for the yellow vest and to prove to his boss that he's bile than the rest of that yellow company of his. He probably did it in that way. But what is important is that citizens know very well who he is and what he was doing in Serbia. That show from yesterday that started and ended in an infamous fashion just shows all the impotence of the opposition to bring out the real facts, because the real facts are gone. I wanted to speak to a fellow MP from Capca, Dusan Petrovic. I'm sorry he's not here, but he's probably in pain for standing up yesterday. He didn't know there was gonna be another action today. And since it's not often there, I have to use my right to ask the MP – when will he stop, along with his friends, to stop cheating and to lie to his fellow citizens and Serbian citizens? I have here a capital investment plan for 2016, a pre-election plan, which is voted and full at the Šapca City Assembly in 2016, before the election. In this plan, Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic, Nemanja Pajic, Svrvanja Colagic and others told citizens that in 2016 they would build a heat on biomass, 500 million dinars, a fruit centre, 500 million dinars, a underground garage, 200 million dinars, etc. There was nothing of it in 2018. I call on Dusan Petrovic to go together to see where that biomass heat is, where the fruit centre is, where the underground and underground garage is. I call on him to, together with other colleagues from the alliance for new lies, fraud and deception, as they are in the name of Dusan Petrovic, he has made a list of 2.7 billion investments in 2016, not a single investment. So he lied to the citizens of the Whisper. And, of course, for the last time, no one in Capco trusts him anymore, and they'll never believe him again. And by his reputation, you've now made a list of wishes in the union for fraud, 30 wishes that they will, behold, carry out. Who's going to do it? What people will do when we talk about people who knew very well what they were doing from 2000 to 2012? I call on MPs, together with Dusan Petrovic, to move in any direction from Belgrade, to any city and to visit factories, hospitals, schools and all that has been renovated since 2012. And to visit together the factories that you've destroyed together, and at one point lead to the situation that no factory employee in Capco existed. In just a few months, 12,000 people in the Zorka Chemical Industry were out of work. Twelve thousand people and that's not misinformation, that's just the truth. And that's how the citizens of Whisper know it. You look forward to defeating Serbia. You look forward to defeating your people. When the previous speaker said that someone was serving Alexander Wolfich, no one here serves Alexander Wolfich. In this government, in this parliamentary majority, no one serves Alexander Vukic. If we serve someone, we serve our citizens. The fact that you're talking to each other and lying to each other, you can do it and you'll probably do it, probably, still, although it's clear that you don't trust each other. But you keep lying to each other, citizens know very well who they trust and who they trust and who they vote in elections. I repeat, citizens know who and what they are doing in this Serbia, and according to this we have support, we have a future, we have Serbia run by Aleksandar Vukic, and which in the next period will have a scale raised by one level to the next, and that is the level you will never reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50657	By amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50658	Thank you. I'm glad I got the word, finally, and I'm not glad I have to stop, and so are the citizens of Serbia, that you can't say any of the exact information. Whether it's in the genetic code of SNS, if those things teach you, I don't know, but you've never said a single thing in your life. (Boban Birmancevic: Let's go to Shabac.) Please don't throw it away. First of all, ministers, GDP growth per year, after you read some data, of course restrictively, in 2000. - 7.67, 2001. - 4.99, 2002. - 7,12, 2003. - 4.42, 2004. - 9.05, 2005. - 5.54. We can also talk about your GDP growth in 2014. – minus 1,88, 2015 - 0.76. I don't know why you left out that data, probably on purpose. And since we have just heard what a person is saying, here is July 17th, 2012, the man says this: "It is about a party that has been a party since 2008, it does not get a single dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is absolute proof that the SNS party, which is financed absolutely in an illegal manner, is funded by tycoons, mobsters and criminals," Aleksandar Martinovic. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50659	I thank my colleague Milojičić. (Radoslav Milojic: Pains Arsic, hurts.) I can't even say the sentence, Martinovic spoke for four minutes yesterday, and the replica is two minutes. You've spent time with a fellow MP, Radojić. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50660	It's interesting to always talk about the genetic code of different parties and what they said. I think it's a very important topic. Here's the issue of genetic code, right on the subject of parties, and on the subject of what anyone said, Jesic, it may sound familiar to you, MP DS, on 23 May of this year, said: "The idea of political opponents being exterminated and cleaned up is in the genetic code DS". The DS MP says in the genetic code of the DS that political opponents are being trampled and cleaned. The idea has never brought anything good to the party or to Serbia. When we talk about aggression, and given this organized action that we have in this assembly yesterday and today, that's what they think, where this generic aggression in our society comes from. In their highly esteemed opinion, it comes from their ranks. What they think of themselves, we've read today, there's as much as you want. In addition to what the chairman of the municipal board of DS in Ruma, Nenad Borovic said, and said, I should remind that Dragan Djilas and Bojan Pajtic are lopurde. I'm sorry, but I quote, these aren't my words, this is what a senior DS official says. That the lopurade and the green interest filled their own pockets. The president of the municipal board, the same DS that represents this Gilas' new society, which instructs them to yell, scream, bang benches here today, distract others as they speak. Also, a committee member in the Odjacs Municipality of the same and the DS that brings them all together so nicely and whose exhibits are, says – the Democratic Party has become an incubator of post-war profiteers, this is interesting, speculators whose policy is not a tool for reshaping society, but an opportunity to cash out a revolutionary rent, keep this in mind when they talk about the revolution these days, and newly-class positioning. They have left themselves a mark of shame, and they can only be free of it with a clear way of doing so. If they continue with these organized actions, and if they continue with their intention to rob and continue, they will not be removed, I'm afraid, so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50661	Right on the line, according to Maja Vidinović's Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50662	Article 107, Vice President, dignity of the National Assembly. It is quite clear to us that this playful, unfortunately very transparent and humiliating for citizens, the game, that instead of the budget, instead of how the government sees that citizens should live next year, abuse the Rules of Procedure and repeat the accusations that today, not that nobody believes in Serbia, but that people are sick of lying that every day we hear from you that we are thieves, that every day we hear from you that the opposition is a murderer, that every day we listen to that we are a traitor, that every day we listen to that we are every day from you that we listen to that we are...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50663	My colleague... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50664	I'm discussing a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50665	My colleague, you've turned your advertising Rules of Procedure into a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50666	No, I'm explaining it, if I may, I believe you'll be able to understand the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50667	So you tell them, you tell them. So you're talking to your fellow MPs, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50668	I explain because of the way you broke the Rules of Procedure. I believe you're in a position to escort.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50669	I didn't break the Rules of Procedure and, look, I'll answer you right now. A fellow Orlic quoted certain articles in the paper...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50670	No need to interpret the words of fellow Orlic, unfortunately, we are all aware of his words.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50671	.. statements by the DS functionator.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50672	I'm just explaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50673	Well, then what do you explain? You're reading members of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50674	Mr. Arsic, if you want to replicate to me, that's what I'm holding your fists in, to try, I'm asking you to go to the bench and answer your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50675	No, I'm not replicating you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50676	I want to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I can't plead when I'm not done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50677	No, you've turned the breach of the Rules of Procedure into a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50678	No, but you interrupted me and made it impossible for me to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50679	Please don't. Do you want the assembly in voting day to plead, yes or no? Yeah, okay. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50680	Mr. Arsic, Article 108. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that as chairman you should take care of order at the session. I will ask you once again, as during yesterday, all who sat in that chair, that by your conduct, by interrupting when his time was not, the MP of the opposition, you do not create any additional disorder generated by you who are chairing this session, not the MPs of the opposition. You had no right to interrupt my colleague, Maju Vidinović, and you had previously been obliged, and thus again committed a violation of article 108, so to create riots at the session, when Orlic did not interrupt while saying that we organized something in here and we're trying to say something. We're here at work, you know that well. We didn't come by here on the way, as you once told me yourself, organize some stands and say what you want. I certainly do, but this is my place of work and I'm acting according to what the citizens here have chosen me for, and I ask for patience, to please, which is probably very strange, let your colleagues explain why they think you're not acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is more often used by you, or almost, all the time. Don't do that, it takes two minutes to advertise the Rules of Procedure, let it end. I can understand that you don't understand, but we have our time in this Rules of Procedure, so let us explain. And I repeat once again, we're here at work, so don't represent us as some informal group that's in here, that's what some others do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50681	My colleague Tepic, I'm at work, as are you. If you look at the discussion of fellow Milojic, nothing differed from the discussion of fellow Orlic. Then what's the problem? A fellow Milojic attacked a SNS parliamentary group, completely legitimately, no one defended him. Then Orlic attacked a parliamentary group of the former regime, completely legitimate, just as it was for fellow Milojic. Now, let's get back to hurting the Rules of Procedure. Up to two minutes is an explanation, but you will not read all the members, for in Article 106, no one can interrupt the speaker except the president, or chairman of the National Assembly. When my colleague Vidinovic started talking to me not for hurting the Rules of Procedure, because I am the one who violates the Rules of Procedure. (Marinika Tepic: She persated you. No, don't do that, we're not kids really. So, then I broke up, because it was a replica to the presentation of fellow Orlic, who tried to be realized by the application of the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure, and then I interrupted it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) No problem, it'll come out. Thank you. (Alexandra Tomic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50682	The Honorable Chairman, Article 103, paragraph 8 says that when a breach of the Rules of Procedure is used as a replica and attacks that you need to subtract time from the parliamentary group for two minutes because the use of abuse is. So, abuse is seen in the fact that Mr. Orlic quoted the newspaper as saying – Mr. Aleksandar Dikic, chairman of the DS municipal board, made accusations at the expense of his colleagues. Therefore, you are not here to interpret, nor are those who thought to say or said if you read a newspaper article. Please follow the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50683	My colleague Tomic, I would have acted on the Rules of Procedure, but the DS parliamentary group has no more time. We're moving on. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Davidovci, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50684	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are before us the proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security, which I have submitted to this amendment, and in order to contribute to the development of regional co-operation. One of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is the need to organise an efficient form of business, establishment and management of a central database where different bases will be united for the same user groups in the area of social security. The objectives of the law are to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. One of the measures foreseen by the laws that are before us today is to reduce the burden on earnings. As of January 1st, the plan is to abolish unemployment contributions to the employer's burden, reducing the payload from 63% to 62%. This is the first step in which 12 billion dinars are allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the budget, which means that this amount remains business and business, which makes a significant contribution to discharging the economy. The set of measures foreseen by the 2019 budget provides support for the development of an economy that will be significantly more relievable in 2019, which is significantly more attractive and competitive, which is a prerequisite for further growth in our economy. I would also point out that from 1 January 2019, the minimum labour price will be increased by 8.6%, from 143 dinars to 155 dinars per hour. This will increase the minimum wage, for the first time, to 27 000 dinars and will further, from the point of view of demand, contribute to the growth of our GDP and, of course, to raising the standard of living for Serbian citizens. We also abolished the law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid, with an increase in the lowest pensions of 5% compared to the pension paid in September 2018. Pensions in Serbia have never been higher than today, and this policy continues in 2019 where 181.4 billion dinars are allocated in the budget, with a total of 563.2 billion dinars being allocated in 2019 from the budget, and part of the PIO Fund, which is 35 billion more than in 2018. The reforms launched a few years ago resulted in an increase in pensions and salaries in the public sector, which is exactly the goal we have been fighting for over the past few years. A set of reform laws ahead will contribute to further raising the standard of living, economic growth, and even more intensive economic progress of our country. In Voting Day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50685	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50686	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us a set of laws aimed at improving regulatory and systematic settlement of issues from areas they regulate, thus keeping an eye on the improvement and efficiency of the entire system of state apparatus. What is the common denominator of the debate that has been led these days and the explanations of these legal frameworks presented to us by ministers is concern about the interests of Serbian citizens, concerns about progress and economic growth, concerns about the future of our country. Those who sit across the street from us, or better to say the circus points these days in parliament are parading, unfortunately, as always, were not constructive in the debate. The very fact that they have submitted only 75 very non-serious amendments to the 2019 budget is in support of their lack of concrete objections to this budget. Their policy is equal to what their programme idea and leadership so far has been, and that is to see how in the future, at the cost of force and violence that they absolutely do not have foreignly embedded their personal ambitions and interests. So, after a very long time, forgetting that some of them and MPs, because for years in their workplace they didn't even show up, we had a chance to remind ourselves what it looked like when they were setting up the future of citizens, leaving desolation and hopelessness behind, a ruined economy, hundreds of thousands of people without a job and Serbia sold out to individual interests, without strategy and lost in international relations. Today, hoping that by calling for violence, because it is a five-octobaric method that only they know, they will succeed in putting Serbia back on its knees, to sell it out, to humiliate and devalue it, because when institutions and citizens devalue themselves only to think about the naked survival, the easiest government is to create a personal wealth, which is the only thing citizens remember from their rule – a struggle for naked survival. Such a future and Serbia as the private property of Dragan Gilas will never be seen again, we hope. This reality can only be seen in the hanging alliance, which it has established and serves to settle personal frustrations. Today, we are talking about Serbia's progress in all fields, a country with international integrity and a higher reputation in the world. This also shows the most significant legal act to be adopted in one year in this House and as the most significant fiscal document, which is the budget. It was created in terms of expenditure, balanced and even and represents the most realistic policy indicator that the government is leading, and the results and data achieved are in favour of Serbia being third year in surplus, which was once impossible to imagine. The unemployment rate, according to the latest data, shows a historic minimum of 11.3%, as the minister also announced to us the other day, 370,000 newly employed in the last four years, with a reduction in the number of public sector employees and an increase in real data that speaks for itself. So enough to say that DS has left this and more people out of work. Kilometers of roads have been built, renovated and newly raised hospitals, an increase in the budget for giving pensioners, doctors and health care professionals and an announced increase in public sector wages, which is a de facto indicator of prosperity, as this move will increase public spending, as another indicator of a successfully managed economy. A stable monetary policy and a stable inflation rate are far below the percentage and much more developed countries, which has absolutely become a trend. Unlike the inflation rate of 12.9% in 2012, it has been at a stable percentage of 2.2% for five years and according to GDP projections in 2019 will be 3.5%. Stability and exchange rate have been preserved, which is very important, as the euro-based dinar has increased by 0.5% despite turbulence in the international environment, trade and geopolitical tensions, which is the basis of every economic prosperity. That is why the struggle for economic truth is extremely important in this House, because this truth sets out all the other key parameters that this country is led. All other speculations and political propaganda of the opposition fall before this truth right now. The success of public policymaking is reflected in its responsibility, and Serbia is guided by all indicators by the responsible people who work in the interest of the future of all its citizens, headed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, as a driver and guarantor of economic progress. In co-operation with the government, Serbia is certainly heading towards stability and economic prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50687	The People's MP Goran Ciric has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50688	Here, in the absence of arguments, of course, the easiest thing to do is point your finger at DS, but yesterday I spoke to Mr. Minister about some of the results that you left especially until 2000, because your key thesis that everything in the country was ideal until 2000, and then came DS. In 2000. The GDP in Serbia was seven billion euros, compared to the current 40 billion euros, so seven billion, which was half of the total public debt at that time of 15 billion. You left the DS legacy, and that's over 200% of the public debt in GDP. These are your results. Now you've been back in the country since 2012, with the highest responsibility, where you inherited a public debt of 15 billion, and now it's 24 billion, nine billion in seven years. These are your effects of borrowing future generations. You haven't answered the questions here, there's a minister who'll probably answer a question I didn't get an answer for, Minister Mali. How much has the Serbian state gained with its 32% stake in the company "Belgrade on Water" in the last four years, in line with the final accounts reported by the company? I don't think there's any plan, and neither does the country's dinars of Serbia get from that project that has so many bells announced. The issues that arise, the percentage of the value of Copernicus and state majority ownership in Telecom, which has directed 200m euros for a company that has been said to hold 200,000 users, and the state's RATEL speaks of 50,000 users and estimates that Copernicus has been overpaid fourfold. It's just some of the questions we can't hear here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50689	The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems these from this not alliance, but the cage for Serbia do not listen to each other. A little while, Mr. Ciric's colleague, who ruined Smederjevska Palanka, read GDP growth percentages, I listened carefully, and said that over 7% of GDP growth was recorded in that famous year 2000. It would be good if now a special adviser to the Director General of the Public Business "Post-Serbia" explained whether his data is correct or the exact data of the man who introduced Smederjevska Palanka municipality into the financial blockade and put that municipality into a position to pay employees to pay on the hands of the Football Club "Jasenica" and for a time through the Public Enterprise "water and sewerage" in Smederjevska Palanca. What represents a significant difference between our government and the authorities of this decomposed DS is in the next. At the time when you were in power, you literally killed your political opponents, and you did it with Ranko Panic, by trampling him with police boots. You see, at this time of evil Vucic's reign, you are the president of the parliamentary group of one opposition party, and you are the special adviser of the Director General of "Post-Serbia" and you have a salary of 150,000 dinars, and that is what Serbian citizens should know, and it is very difficult for you, Mr. Ciric, under the regime of Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50691	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50692	Just please, hold on, I know it's not easy living with a salary of 150,000 dinars, but, here, we're with you, hold on, you've got all our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50693	Thank you. The People's MP Goran Ciric has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50694	You're telling the truth again, if you were a little bit more informed, you'd know that I'm no longer a special advisor and that you have information on the official anti-corruption agency website and that my salary is twice as much as the one you're talking about. So that's the exact information you can get and again, you're lying again. But when you speak and ask for information from 2000, yes, check the GDP site in 2000 amounted to seven billion euros in Serbia, with a public debt of 15 billion euros. So that's the exact information and that's something that's hard to cross with data from Smederevska Palanka, or data on how you accuse other MPs of managing local self-government. You answer these questions that we ask and try not to direct the conversation in the other direction. So here's the simple question, once again I'm going to ask the minister who is present here, which is: when will the money from the concession for Nikola Tesla Airport be laid down? We in the 2019 budget do not see a plan for those 500m euros, how much is expected in the budget and how much is announced in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and Minister Mali said he would publish the contract by the end of this year, we have less than a month to see if the funds will then be in the account of the Republic of Serbia by the end of this year. The second question is this particular assessment, which was the agency that assessed the value of Copernicus that Telecom, a majority-owned company in Serbia, singled out 200m euros, making arguments that this is a value based on 200,000 users, and RATEL says Copernicus has 50,000 users.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50695	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50696	I was directed by Mr. Ciric to the Anti-Corruption Agency site, here I am now entering the site, says Mr. Goran Ciric, JP "Serb Post", Belgrade, a special adviser, source of the Republic's income. The monthly no-mind interval, net income of 150 thousand dinars... (Diana Vukomanovic: Well, read your receipts. ( b) What are you nervous about? Well, slowly being nervous? What are you nervous about? One hundred fifty thousand 96 dinars, so I didn't lie. Well, here, then he's lying to the Anti-Corruption Agency. (Marco Djurisic: Of course he's lying, because there's your man. ) So, you are under this terrible regime by Alexander Vukic, special adviser to the general director of "Post of Serbia", and it is good that it is so, we show that there is political pluralism in Serbia, that there is no rematch and that we do not persecute our political opponents in the way that you did, when you left people without bread, when you left them without work, when you entered municipalities where you were not in power with the buses of the intervention police, when you took the stamps, when the presidents of municipalities and presidents of the municipalities were expelled with the help of police peddlers on the street and at the end of 2008, when you killed a young man, just because you disagreed with Boris Tadic and DS policy, and that policy can be summed up in a very simple formula. We apologize to everyone, we apologize for the Ustasha killing Serbia, we apologize to Naser Oric for not killing enough Serbs in Podrinj, we apologize to Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci for all those Serbs they killed during 1998 and 1999. Such a policy was raised by Ranko Panic and Boris Tadic's regime sent on him a gendarme, ran his head down with police boots, smashed his skull and killed him. In our time, as you can see, Mr. Circi is not happening. This yellow coordinator of yours, the yellow disintegrated parties are threatening us with some protests. We saw these protests both in 2016 and in 2017, you failed to collect more than, I think in one day there were 800 people, but what's very important, you couldn't see the cops on the street. No one looked at you in the face, let alone hit you with a police pen. This is the important difference between Serbia, which today is a democratic state and your dictatorship in which people were killed on the street just because your policy disagreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50697	Thank you. Right on line, Minister Antic. Here you go. (Goran Ciric: Mr. Chairman, I expect you to give me the right to a three-minute replica, as you gave Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic. I didn't give it to you, my colleague Kiric, but to Minister Antic because you called him. Well, the minister has a right to replication, too. No, wait, so far you have no basis. [[Goran Ciric: Give me your word, I have the right to reply.]] You are no longer President Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all by respecting the debate that is being held in this House, I would like to comment on several key issues that hand to heart are not part of the debate on the law that lies before the MPs, nor the debate on the amendment currently under way, but of course, I will repeat several answers. When it comes to Belgrade Airport, therefore, at the moment it is very intensively working on the end of the transaction, i.e. on the financial cloning, and right after the cloning, we expect a concession fee to be paid. It's quite possible, I don't like to bid on dates, it's very possible that such concession tax can be paid by the end of the year. When it comes to Telecom Serbia, first of all Telecom Serbia is an action society that leads to a really sharp struggle in Serbia's market. So, he performs his activity in fully marketable conditions, surrounded by large companies, above all I think of providers in the area of mobile telephony, I mean "Telenor", I mean the VIP but also one sharp struggle and in other of my basic actions, I primarily think of providers when it comes to TV, the Internet and other means of communication. In this respect, they in this market fight, in these market conditions of their work, make their assessment of the position on the market and their priorities and their plans. In that sense, they, I repeat, make decisions on transactions based on their business estimates. What I think is most important for the citizens of Serbia and for us as the Republic of Serbia as a majority shareholder in Telecom Serbia is that they play a very active role in this fight and take up that key part of the space in order to achieve profit and income. So their business decisions are their business decisions. I expect them, as they have so far, to make profits and benefits for both the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you that Telecom Serbia is indeed a company that has been making profit and profit in its continuum for years, most of the profits are being paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I have to comment on these several other questions as well. First of all, when it comes to "Belgrade on Water", it really sounds inconclusive to me how much the Republic of Serbia has earned profit in the ongoing and developing project. It's completely pointless to expect profit in a project to be built. It'd be like expecting tolls on the highway to be built. It's completely pointless. In the end, indeed, by respecting Mr. Kiric, who I know is a patriot and I know where he was in 1999, I was shocked or surprised to wonder how much GDP he was in 2000. People, GDP in Serbia in 1999 and 2000, during the bombing or after the bombing, it's impossible to analyze, it's completely unnatural and politically absolutely incorrect... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50699	Thank you, Minister. (Goran Ciric: Replica! You have no basis for replication. (Goran Ciric: How come I don't have a name and a last name he called me? ) Comrade Kiric, he read your data that you provided to the Anti-Corruption Agency. It's a public record that anyone can read, every citizen. And on that basis, you're asking for the right to a replica? Excuse me, please. You signed that report, it's available to all citizens, as well as to every MP. (Marco Djurisic: Replica! (Miroslav Aleksic: Let him speak. ) According to the amendment, MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50700	The previous speaker said about the amendment that opposition MPs did not read the budget and I want to say here that we have read it well and that we have noticed that the Serbian diaspora organisation in the region has cut 10 million dinars off this year. It is a trend that has continued for several years and has been free here for perjan and SNS fins to talk about Jasenovac, Orlic and many other things, especially those that originate with the Serbian provinces, because in this meeting, this government and the previous government, have done nothing for Serbs in the diaspora region, no legal act has been passed nor changed, in order to improve the position of our countrymen who have four million. So, by reading this budget, I want to tell all our compatriots from the diaspora and the region that neither this year nor the previous, and hopefully neither in the future, anything Alexander Vukic will do good for them, as can be seen from this data. As far as salary is concerned, I think it's absolutely hypocritical to talk about people's salaries, because most people here work for one salary, and you should ask yourself, who in many public enterprises are employed, what citizens think of you and therefore the trust of the Serbian people is hardly 3%. So make sure that with that kind of behavior, and I'm sorry that this pretty lady uses such ugly terms for you, but, very quickly, the end is coming to you, so be assured.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50701	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Marco Djurisic: How dare he and I not? What are you laughing at? Give me your word. Did he say – Boris Tadic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50702	If we're talking about support for Serbs in the region, those who are yelling and arlauch again, they seem to like to yell and say things, and they want to ask things like, and they won't hear any answers. Well, we're long aware that you're not here because you're dealing with some dialogue and because you want to exchange opinions, we're quite clear that you're here with a task that's completely different. You don't have to prove it to us anymore. But if we are talking about support for the Serb people in the region, for example, I don't really know now whether what they know now helped, for example, that Serbs in Podgorica get the Serbian house? How many have they singled out? How much? Oh, nothing. All right. Ask Alexander Vucic, whom you do not take out of your mouth, how much he has helped. Ask yourself the Serbian government, which you cannot come up with because the SNS, which you hate to share, is how helpful it has been. Ask yourself, for example, what has been done for our people in Herzegovina, for example in Mostar, is well spoken of on many occasions by counterpart Milimir Vujadinovic. Ask yourself, for example, what and who should be served by the bridge on the Drina and the road infrastructure, the highway that should connect us with that people, ask yourself how much we helped, and that Alexander Vukic personally advocated his strong political authority. The governments he led and the SNS-backed governments today helped Serbs in Croatia. How many dinars, euros, anything, have been singled out by those who are very loud when they have to yell to keep someone here from speaking, which is very strong when they have to show physical strength by hitting the bench and kicking the bench? What have they ever done for anyone but themselves and their own pocket? That's none of your business. They showed they weren't interested back then, when they said that when we talk about Serbs in the region, that Franjo Tudjman was absolutely right about everything he did to them, that it was legal and probably high moral. They showed their attitude by doing so. And what they're doing today, and it has to do with the region in a narrow or wider sense, whatever you want. It does, apparently, their idol and role model Albin Kurti. What's next? Tear gas? You scared the hell out of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50703	Thank you, colleague Orlic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50704	Dear Chairman, you are constantly in violation of the Rules of Procedure today, Rule 108, that it is in order at the session of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly. (Alexander Martinovic: He was a member of 108.) Marko Djurisic: When was he? ) So, you're making it impossible for opposition representatives to get the right to reply, and you're giving government representatives, the minister, five minutes, even though the right to reply gives him two minutes. You give at least three minutes to all MPs from the ruling majority, although their right to the Rules of Procedure is two minutes. Well, wait, what do you think we're here for? Why am I wearing this yellow vest today? To protest your behavior and that you can't do it anymore, that we won't let you do it. You cannot treat the ruling majority in one way and otherwise treat the opposition. That's impossible. You must respect this Rules of Procedure, while he is in power, and give us the opportunity to have the right to replication and to have the right to talk about topics that are current, and to have the right to respond to all these lies and fictions. In that sense, I, a fellow chairman, have the obligation here to call upon the opinion of Aleksandar Martinovic, who said that the Serbian Progressive Party headed by Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic, was financed by tycoon and mobsters, that Nikolic was in a coalition with Bogoljub Karic, a man... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50705	I'm a colleague of Ododovic's. (Bosko Obradovic: What is it now? I can't quote Alexander Martinovic? ) You can, of course, only, as far as I remember, yesterday, colleague Martinovic apologized for these words to all the MPs and members of the SNS and all the citizens of Serbia for being mistaken. Marko Djurisic: Did he say that he was mistaken or that he was an ass? Please, colleagues. What you just said, fellow Djurisic, is that Mr. Martinovic can talk about himself, and you have no right. Is he all right? Now, colleague Obradovic, I've let fellow MPs talk here about everything and everything, and at least the amendments that have been read are on the agenda. To remind you, your colleague Kostic spoke about the budget and the division related to donations, transfers or whatever to the Serb associations in the region and the diaspora. That's the budget. As far as I know, we're talking about another law now, so that's not the problem. Here, I let him go, nothing. I didn't interrupt him. (Bosko Obradovic: You interrupted me. I interrupted you because you went into replicas, explaining the Rules of Procedure. You said: “You do not allow us to talk about what we want and the current topics. “ Here, I thank you now on behalf of my colleague Martinovic that he is the current topic in the Serbian public, but you cannot and you have no right to talk about these things in the hurt of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: And is he doing this? No, he didn't do it. (Bosko Obradović: And Rističević is right? ) He was doing it in replicas, not in injury to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague. You obviously have a problem. The yellow color seems to be your problem. It's some kind of contagion here. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? (Bosko Obradovic: Give me back the time to two minutes!) You don't have until two minutes. You spoke for a minute, I understood your violation of the Rules of Procedure. I told you and answered. Your MPs report to the amendments, and they talk about everything and everything, and no one interrupts them. (Bosko Obradović: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) (Maria Janjušević: Injuring the Rules of Procedure! What's the problem? I broke the Rules of Procedure again when I explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure? That's impossible. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marija Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50706	I thank the chairman. You've been breaking the Rules of Procedure all along, article 100. If you want to settle with the MPs, help SNS MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50707	My colleague Janjušević, let me tell you right away, I am obliged as chairman to interrupt you now. (Bosko Obradovic; You cannot interrupt the MP as he speaks.) You can't interrupt me, not me the talking messenger. So, when advertising the Rules of Procedure, colleague Janjusevic, you must know that the chairman has an obligation to respond to the MP's advertising of the Rules of Procedure and then to ask if he wants to make a statement about it or not. (Maria Janjušević: But not to flaunt. If you're going to get your butt kicked, get down there. So I couldn't break Article 100, I was just following the rules of the Rules of Procedure. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50708	Mr. Chairman, please do not compete with Maja Gojkovic, who, as you are now, has persistently violated Rule 103 of this Rules of Procedure, which gives the chairman the right and the obligation to explain the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you do not. First, you interrupt the MPs of the opposition in the middle of a sentence, deny them the time they are entitled to, and do not explain whether or not you believe you have violated the alleged injury. You keep talking to us, interpreting what anyone said, adding your impressions to our... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50709	Thank you, colleague Tepic. I remind you of the obligation to answer, as I said to my colleague Janjusevic, it is obvious that this is the place where the Rules of Procedure is advertised to suspend the debate on the laws. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Marinika Tepic: Yes, of course.) Yes. Of course. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (Goran Ciric: I answered the amendment. ) (Bosko Obradović: We have all responded by amendment. Comrade Popovic, here you go. (Goran Ciric: Arsic, I've answered by amendment, why don't you give me your word? (Bosko Obradovic: What is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50710	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this member with the position I have proposed, are further defining the bill. Information and digitisation are the processes necessary for the development of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has put these processes as priorities of its policy in the coming period. In the past year, since its introduction in October 2017, the automatic overa of the health insurance card has been provided for more than 5.5 million insurance companies, and a total of seven million automatic overs. Automatic health card overture is another mechanism in modernising public administration and is part of the measures that introduce electronic administration in the state. It enables faster and simpler overu health insurance documents, only on the basis of data that the contribution has been paid without going to the counters and without delivering different documentation. The automatic overa of the health insurance card means that the information system of the Republic Health Insurance Fund takes over the data of the tax administration on the contributions paid and automatically performs the above on the basis of them. Continuing the introduction of new and improving existing electronic services, the government of the Republic of Serbia is establishing an electronic administration that is in the role of citizens and businesses and is at the same time an important mechanism in the fight against corruption. The realisation of these projects is an indication that the government of the Republic of Serbia is pursuing the overall development of the state and raising the standard of living of all its citizens. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: By amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50711	By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50712	Thank you, Chairman. So, I don't know what the problem is to quote what the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, said about the SNS, about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is doing in most SNS? I don't know why it's a problem for Serbian citizens to know that he said it was a party that has since 2008 not received a single dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is absolute proof that the SNS is a party that is financed absolutely in an illegal way, that it is financed by tycoons, mobsters and criminals and that there is no fundamental difference between Boris and Tom? It is the face and face of the same pro-Western treasonous and anti-Serbian policies, Aleksandar Martinovic said of Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic two months before becoming a member of the SNS. He gave us a lecture here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, that's morally scandalous. Instead of covering his ears and coming out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and saying, "I have no right to lecture anyone when I am a flyover like this, when I have failed my politics like this, when I have given up my ideals like this." Who else am I supposed to lecture? Go get five salaries, keep robbing people and citizens of Serbia, but don't lecture us. So, Mr. Chairman, the point is why we're protesting yesterday and today here, because you can't prevent the debate on current issues and the budget. You deliberately filed 400 amendments so that the budget could not be discussed. You think you hide from the citizens of Serbia the robbery, how you cut salaries, how you cut pensions, how you raised taxes, taxes and taxes, how you raised your property tax, how you raised the price of fuel, how the lowest price of agricultural products in history is in Serbia today. Shall we talk about this, gentlemen? What's the price of raspberries? You lied to all the rabbles in Serbia. I call on all the raspberries in Serbia for a major popular protest Saturday, 8 December at 1800 hours in Belgrade, on the student plateau, to go finally and us to rebel against this government. Your raspberries were robbed the most. Your peasants robbed the most. Your pensioners robbed the most. All to protest Saturday at 6:00 p.m., student pay in Belgrade, to show this authority that we're not afraid of them. We're sick and tired of getting our heads kicked, we're tired of what happened to Borko Stefanovic. It's time to stand up to your violence, your pride, your crime, your corruption, your thieving.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50713	You said whatever you wanted and no one interrupted you. Now I ask you not to honor me as we're dictatorship, here. Everything after the amendment was... (Bosko Obradovic: Everything by amendment. ) All citizens of Serbia have seen how much you are after the amendment. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what you see, and today seems to have been a payment, a taxi meter of Gilasov's works, well done, I don't know how much money you got, but it's probably not a small amount of money. I haven't lectured anyone, I just said there's no bigger flyer than the one who turns Dimitri Ljotic into the camp of Dragan Gilas. Not a single yellow MP, not a single yellow MP wearing a yellow vest, but Bosko Obradović... (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )......................................................................................................... he suddenly yellowed and put on a yellow vest to show that he was more democratic and more chilasian even than Gilas himself. I just said, but really well-intentioned colleagues, seeing as he's very nervous, I don't know what's going on with him, and I'm surprised, seeing that these payments are on a regular basis and I guess when he has money he seems relieved, he's not so nervous, I just said he's avoiding swimming in the open in November and December and talking to Father Peranovic from the Black River. Afterwards, an MP, Boris Tadic, said the method implies hitting the stick in the head. No, I don't. Father Peranovic, such as the yellow coordinator, heals in a different way and I can say it quite effectively. (Bosko Obradovic: You threaten that, Martinovic? So, I just gave you advice, avoid swimming in November and December in the open, see that it hurts you and try these Black River methods, you might get better. (Bosko Obradovic: Are you threatening? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50715	Thank you. No one's threatening you, Mr. Beard. (Bosko Obradovic: How not? They said what you had on Martinovic. Your colleague Martinovic answered you, so we move on. (Bosko Obradovic: A man threatens me, how can I not? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50716	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, to Article 1. The law on the central register of compulsory social security, I have submitted an amendment because it is indisputable that this bill implies that one of the key parameters of macroeconomic stability, which is labour force, is arranged completely different and more quality. The macroeconomic stability cannot be imagined without a key parameter, and these are people. Most of Europe's countries in 2016 were in trouble with labour productivity growth. And this is one of the basic sources of migration and the problem Serbia is having at the moment, because most European countries can't go into business since 2006, in productivity to grow on the basis of labour force. One economy, one organised society actually has one basic criterion, which is that it must exploit all its resources and these resources must be used in accordance with the principles of market economy and freedom. Human resources, or labour force, are the essence of everything. Mass unemployment, which occurred last in Serbia from 2008 to 2012, certainly had a number of negative consequences for macroeconomic stability. These consequences are evident and clear, not only in the number of employee cuts, but also in the growth of the number of new employees. Of course, when you look at how much wages have really grown in that period, and how much inflation has grown, then we can certainly break down, and in the below, we're going to polish, but before any political analysis, look at the statistical reports that you and your government were doing, whose indicators, if you have them in front of you, clearly say that the macroeconomic parameters in terms of the workforce weren't good. That's why you lost the election in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50717	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50718	It's obvious how ready you are to have a proper discussion. Minister Sinisha Mali, here, has not been in the benches for more than an hour. The Prime Minister did not appear at any meeting of the Assembly in the budget debate. It is obvious how ready you are to essentially discuss the most important law for all citizens of Serbia in 2019. And you here don't allow us to talk about the essence, you don't give space to the opposition to respond to calls, attempts and accusations that go, first of all, with a motive to prevent any debate. Which is why you didn't give me the space to talk to the minister, the only minister present here and answer the question, where he said -- yes, I know where you were, yes, you're a patriot and you know that in 1999, regardless of the charges on this side, I was in missile units in Kosovo and defending those people from Kosovo, defending people throughout Serbia. I asked you: where were you, and you give yourself the right to continue to bully people now, because I know what it's like to be in war? I know what it's like to be in a war, to know what it's like to take care of your family, your family, all your friends and all your country. Don't do it, in this way, accusing us, and we heard it from Martinovic, calling that we participated in the murder of Panic. Of course I feel sorry for every life lost in Serbia and of course it should be condemned, but ask these questions to your coalition partners. Who was the minister of police at the time? It was Hansel Dacic. Who was the director of the police at the time? President Vukic's adviser, Security Advisor Veljovic, is now in place. Talk to all these people. Who reported this meeting and who organized the meeting? And we organized different gatherings, he described the organization of Aleksandar Vukic. (Alexander Martinovic: And who was the President of the Republic?) ) At that point, the president was Boris Tadic. Here, I'm talking about everything, but I'm talking about the hierarchy of the organizer of the assembly, the director of the police, the minister, why not the president, but I'm talking about the situation in society and your willingness to talk about all the people sitting together in your benches right now and carrying part of the responsibility for what's been going on in the whole society. Now, Mr. Minister, I repeat one more question. How do you ask me a question? I know what happened in 1999, of course I do, but I'm talking about what she inherited at that time by the government. You keep referring to what you inherited as a problem. At that point, it's objective data. You couldn't say it wasn't accurate. Yes, these are accurate data, seven billion euros in GDP and public debt participation of 200%. Now, these were to be resolved and these are facts, such as the fact that Telecom is a majority-owned company owned by the Serbian state. The government of the Republic of Serbia appoints people on the board of directors and, of course, it is their job to oversee the business of Telecom Serbia. We are rooting for Telecom Serbia and for its successful business, but it will be more successful if the same company buys not for 200m euros, but for 40m or 50m euros, how realistic the estimates are according to the eBid, which is shown and which is visible in public data. If 1.5m euros are shown net for 2017 and that eBid was 6.2 in the estimate, times 6 to 10 maximum or up to 9 maximum, the maximum price is 50m euros. They also worry about the problem data in which the first information was that Copernicus has 200,000 users and that the price is determined on the basis of the number of users times 1,000 euros per user. It showed that these are not true data, that RATEL, an official state agency, has the information that Copernicus has 51,000 users, a total of 11,000 users and 700,000 users on cable TV, and that participation in the market is 3%, a simple calculation says 51,000, which means that also according to this parameter, which is spoken of by the people of Telecom, this means a maximum of 51,000 euros. These are the problems and our concern for the unreal use of funds that could be directed towards modernisation, towards new technologies and, of course, why not, by acquisitions and expansion in that part of business, why not, but in one rational way. These are the questions we need to discuss here. Once again, this question, why don't we just open it up? In 2014, the law under which the "Belgrade on Water" project was passed, with a private company with 100 dinars of founding roles, received 68% of the Berograd on Water, that the state remained on its 32%, that billions and billions of profits and investments had been promised. Isn't it a legitimate question that after four years, the MPs and the entire public of Serbia are asking me – and how much of this is now involved in this profit and in the profit of such an important project for Serbia? We were both against it and then. Now we ask the question -- after four years, did one dinar lie at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, now I'm talking about the budget from the project? No, obviously not. You're saying it doesn't make sense to talk about it and expect any profit from that part. Well, of course it's logical, and we're going to ask these questions, and the charges on the other hand are going precisely with the goal of not talking about these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50719	Here, buddy, I let you talk about everything, even though you know you weren't the subject of the agenda. So don't pay any more respects to the fact that you don't have the right to a public word. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I am surprised that someone who is nominally in favour of the market economy has something against the fact that Telecom, which is a company, operates on the market and operates as any other economic operator. I understand why you're saying this, because you want there to be no competition on the market for Dragan Sollac and his SBB. I understand that you're the lobbyist of the School's company, but don't stop a state-owned company from operating on the market on the same principles that all other economic operators operate on. Just a reminder, Telekom also bought an operator in Republika Srpska and Telekom bought an operator in Montenegro. So what happened recently wasn't the first time Telekom bought a commercial entity on the market, it's already happened and there's been a very cost-effective investment. What you didn't do, and you were obliged to do, I didn't ask you to tell me whether you were sorry or not. The fact is, a young man was killed by being trampled on the head by police boots. I asked – how is it possible that you did not try to detect the murderers of Ranko Panic at all times? Why don't you answer the question of who sent the gendarmes, who sent the police to beat the people, to throw not only tear gas but to throw war poisons at people who didn't threaten anyone, who didn't break any windows, who didn't touch life and the safety of any police officers? What the citizens of Serbia should also know, at the time of your government, was murdered...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50721	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50722	... Police General Bosko Buha, a senior official of Serbia's National Security Service Momir Gavrilovic Gavr, was killed, senior police official Nenad Batcanin was killed, people who witnessed unprecedented crime, robbery and theft, which took place in Serbia after 5 October 2000. These are the answers that Serbian citizens are waiting for today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50723	The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50724	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that you have violated Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure, because it is according to him that it is your duty to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Not wanting to diminish the importance of Minister Antić, but we have been here for a very long time without the competent Secretary of Finance Sinisha Malia in front of the MPs. You well know that it is not the job of the majority's MPs to answer questions about the opposition's budget, but that it is the job of the first man, so if Prime Minister Brnabic has not found it appropriate to come here to discuss the most important law, then it should certainly be Finance Minister Sinisa Mali. He doesn't do it even during yesterday's day in the predominantly part of time, he doesn't do it since this morning, and in the end he's gone without coming back. I suggest you interrupt this session now until Sinisha Mali returns to her post. It's his job here today. There is nothing more important in this world than that the citizens of Serbia, whom we represent as most, explain how they will spend the money of all citizens and their chairs of the Executive Minister of Finance. I'm really asking you to consider, I believe it's even embarrassing for you that he hasn't been around this long... You know very well, like everyone else, that citizens should know that we entered this budget debate without a final account. So, the fact that one of the ministers was telling us what was or wasn't there, what worked or didn't work out is not measurable. There is no record of it because you have failed to submit, or the government has not submitted the final bill. We don't have any concrete report on this. Moreover, the Secretary of Resorship is on the run. Please interrupt the session until he returns.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50725	counterpart Tepic, no one has escaped anywhere, and you know well that all the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are authorised representatives on these agenda points, so I don't see why you are preventing one minister from doing his job here in the Serbian Parliament. Will the MPs who support the government suit you, that's their business and you can't shut anyone up. Obviously, your entire campaign has been reduced to the fact that only you in this House are dominant... (Marinika Tepic: We work. )......................................................................................................... And do you not let others work because you work? Is that right? Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50726	Thank you, Chairman. As long as we're teaching the Rules of Procedure, let's teach it to the end. The minister has a limited response to two minutes after one amendment, so he would not be able to speak every time, given that so many violations of the Rules of Procedure are here today, precisely because we would have nothing to say about the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the implemented reforms economically from those who left us with a literal ambition when we talk about the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In 2008, ‘C market’ was sold. The investment and the privatisation are shown as the only one filling the budget, as well as Telekom Srbija. You have one report on the sustainability of Serbia's development, which the then president of the state wrote and stated that these state-owned public assets were in fact the only basis for the Republic of Serbia's budget. The 2009 deficit rose dizzy to 163 billion dinars with 30 billion dinars. In 2010, it was 167 billion dinars. In 2011 135, to reach 195 billion dinars in 2012. That's why the then government and president decided that the IMF, no international financial organisation at all, accepts into the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor talks with them, because he saw that it simply had to do with everything that was owed outside of public debt -- guarantees from banks, debt to military pensioners, according to interest rates, 208 credit lines that left their interest of 1.5 billion euros a year, which we only saw when we took over the entire economic situation of the Serbian state... That's why the government and the president decided to banish all international institutions and say -- our public debt is 15 billion euros, inflation is 12%, the euro rate is 120 dinars per euro, and there is one harmony, one prosperity. You were aware of the state's situation. You thought you'd continue to be in debt to rehabilitate what was being fixed couldn't. Serbian citizens at that time decided to trust those who can implement it because they have a problem-solving programme. You don't have a problem-solving program today. That's why it's the essence of this whole session to talk about the budget. Come on, when we talk about the budget, when we talk about the results, then you say -- no, it's lies, it's false data. The World Bank's data, IMF data, it's fake data, but it's just the ones that match your real data. Thus, the budget deficit today has been turned into a surplus. In six years, we have managed to bring growth, i.e. the decline of the social product and the growth of real activities with a minus point of three percent, to a plus point of four percent, and as all international organisations acknowledge, all European institutions and congratulate us on that. Whether or not you like it or not, it is up to you to say what is the criticism and what are the concrete suggestions that in the future we are going even better and stronger steps in the development of Serbia, and not in this way, trying to speak only you and only tell lies, repeating every day, to lead to an environment being created in public as the imitation of French politics, Paris is currently here in Belgrade. It's not current, gentlemen. It's clear to all of us. All international institutions have announced that Hilary Klint has announced her candidacy for the presidential elections and that all democratic forces need to be in all possible countries, such as Balkan, such as Ukraine, such as America, to highlight protests and simply lead to instability in all countries. We recognize it, we recognize what's going on here. Which is why you came into this situation yesterday and today to lecture us on human rights, on the media, on the budget. You are allowed to talk and talk, make concrete suggestions, but the point is that you have no policy, you have no idea how you can get Serbia out of certain problems. Why didn't you say in Kosovo that you support that people in the protests to introduce 100% taxis? Why don't you say that there's a humanitarian disaster, that there's no oxygen for babies and for the sick at the hospital in Kosovo Mitrovica, but you keep your mouth shut? So that's your policy. You simply work in the interest of those with whom you negotiate and negotiate behind the backs of this people, behind the backs of the public. And you want to attack the SNS as guilty of everything that's going on in the region. Now, we're just not gonna let you talk about it that way. We will here at any moment defend the politics of the Serbian state and the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50727	According to business colleague Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50728	Vice President, I'm just asking that we understand each other. I'm sure you'll see it through, because I'm sure you didn't understand the argument of colleague Marinika Tepic. Something doesn't work for you to understand what she's been arguing about, which is why you'd have to stop working on the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring to Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please take a look, I believe you've forgotten, which says the bill promoter has the right to withdraw the bill from the procedure until the end of the search of the bill at the National Assembly session. The fact that the finance minister of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about the budget, about the most important law in one country, chooses to have more important jobs today than to answer the opposition's MPs in an argument to what we ask as a question. Because the fact that it's a disgrace to him, but the obligation for you to interrupt the session, with all due respect, Minister Antic. I'm surprised the government didn't choose to send Secretary Vulina here in view of the atmosphere, to the state of emergency, which you're obviously trying to create. It is unacceptable to humiliate citizens that citizens do not have the opportunity to hear arguments from the finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, hear why pensioners are not being paid back, hear why 250 million are being given to build a National Stadium, while mothers and families are being humiliated again with charity, hear why the ban on employment continues. You have to and you have to. There's no way we can continue the session this way. The finance minister must be here, because your obligation, if he chooses to have more important business than how the citizens will live next year, is to interrupt this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50729	My colleague, I am truly impressed by your temperament regarding the explanation of the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 159. But, please, colleagues, let me read you what we are discussing today – draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. It has nothing to do with the budget. Absolutely nothing. (Marco Djurisic: How did you unite? What difference does it make? How could you unite if it didn't matter? Say it again. Fifteen hours of debate you stole for discussion. Do you want me to repeat? But first allow me, fellow MPs. First let me tell you again. So, at this point, the debate is in detail on the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. And, buddy, I really don't know... (Marko Djurisic: Fifteen hours you stole from us for discussion. ) Do you want to get the Assembly in voting day... I just gave you an explanation. I have no intention of interrupting the session. Let's move on. (Bosko Obradović: Thieves! The opposition's emissaries are insecure. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50730	Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, are present at this session with the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, as well as a whole set of laws mainly from the financial sphere, and also the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 as the most important law of the year. The key feature of the 2019 budget is that it is fully balanced. Also, the budget has a social aspect and that's what links it to the amendment that's on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50731	Excuse me, colleague. Marco Djurisic throws. ) Comrade Đurišić, for so many years you have been an MP, excuse me, fellow Members, that you have not learned the Rules of Procedure and the manner of work of the Assembly. Please allow your colleague Obradovic to complete his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50732	... It is characterized by an increase in the standard of living followed by an increase in wages and an increase in pensions, as well as a development aspect, as it foresees record allocations for capital investments that will encourage people... . The opposition's emissaries resent it. I wanted to talk about the amendment. I had a lot to say. I will complete my explanation of the amendments with the following sentence – at a time, more precisely, yesterday when we saw our colleagues in the House of the National Assembly placed in the column, at a time when Ramush Haradinaj introduced insane fees on Serbian products, at the time it was placed in a column, when the columns of women with humanitarian aid, with toys and baby food returned from Jarinj, at a time when the same Haradinaj said he wanted to change the regime in Belgrade, at the same time the Haradinaj infantry, Haradinaj's fifth column of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, without any shame and shame. They want to stab themselves in the back of their own country. Is it true that for this country of ours, does it really shoot your vest and this yellow one as you've learned so far? (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50733	First of all, there's no basis. You didn't listen to the letter. You were howling. (Bosko Obradovic: You weren't here. Yes, yes. I watch the transmission all the time. You were howling. So no one listened to her in the O.R. (Dusan Petrovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Zoran Zivkovic: By amendment. It will be, take it easy. Let's move on. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, On Article 1 of the amendment... (Zoran Zivkovic: I answered by amendment. ) Zoran Zivkovic, warning. I can't release the system. I have to give you my word. The opposition's emissaries resent it. I can't just. You've blocked the system. Let me tell you, fuel prices are down in Serbia a few days ago. You don't watch TV. Out of hatred, you cannot face the truth that fuel prices in Serbia have been reduced. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. What are we going to do? Take it easy. It will be. How many of those have you had today? No one has denied you the Rules of Procedure. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Is he here? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50734	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, which reads - this law encourages the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the efficiency of social protection. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to organise an efficient form of business, establishment and management of a central database where different databases for the same user groups in the field of social security will be pooled. The introduction of a central database to the social security bonds of employers and insurance companies, which should ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to compulsory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. In this way, the bill has a positive effect on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, in which the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are constantly working on starting reforms and improving the standard of living, for which citizens are most interested. For this reason, I believe that the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of social protection must be highlighted in Article 1. It's a bill of law. Thank you. (Dusan Petrovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50735	Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50736	Article 164 governing the examination of amendments and authorised persons and their powers to accept amendments and withdraw, accept and reject them. So, since there's an authorised representative of the Government of Energy Ministers here, I want to know how the Energy Minister can answer our question -- how will the state be in charge of 240m euros to build a stadium? Or 250, and 850m euros were managed by the state by taking pensioners to the balance sheet, as it is said, to make a move and to fix the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50737	So this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's an abuse. Thank you for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. (Dusan Petrovic: How is it not?) You can't react to a budget debate. That's right. But we've been arguing all day, as you can see. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. Since we haven't done much today, we're gonna do a little more work. Can you tell me? (Zoran Zivkovic: I applied for a word after the amendment. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjušević. Does the word Krsto Janjušević want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50738	Thank you, President. This law is certainly in the function of economic development and every system arrangement, data quality editing and control is in the development function, in the function of growth and Serbia wins because citizens recognize it. So we have the Central Register and 370,000 new jobs, and we have the Central Register of hundreds of new companies, we have registers that show the progress of this country in every sense, and the central register of millionaires and tycoon who calls themselves the Alliance of Serbia has left us and offered us the following: the central register of 400,000 people who lost their jobs from 2008 to 2012, hundreds of thousands of houses in which they remained to work only electricians and plumbers. They also left us the central register of 3,000 Shipatarian terrorists who had let back their homes even though they were convicted of the most monstrous crimes, some judges in these cases said that in their careers they could not and could not imagine that human mind and human being could do something like that to anyone. They also left the central register of foreign companies to drive when they came to power. So let them go to German companies that employ over 50,000 workers to say -- outside company workers, let the coordinator go to give a heroic speech, maybe get a round of applause. What's behind the applause? When he had to lay down his wages, he was given what he had washed after the presidential election, and what the workers would do when they returned, who would give them the wages, he would give them again, a heroic speech. They also left that site, which was supposed to be some kind of register, paid 25,000 euros, and it was supposed to have all the wild deposits in Serbia, yet technology has not reached the level to find that site, it is not there. You know, what was their excuse for not having that website, he says -- hackers. I can't resist making one comparison, which is that once my acquaintance got text messages that weren't hers and his answer was - female hackers, hackers wanting to fight us, they can't have America, not you and me. That is why the people do not believe them as much as that wife believed this acquaintance of mine. When Mr. Coordinator invites us to read some songs here, here's a poem proposal, so let's make it their anthem – "To button up my vest I had to nano, Gilas pays more when it's buttoned up." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50739	Thank you. Minister, here you go, Minister. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You don't have a replica. On what grounds? You have some time for the amendment and that's it. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50740	Thank you, President. First of all, I have to say that I deeply believe very correct answers to all the key elements that you've talked about. Both GDP and Telecom, Belgrade on Water. Once again, "Belgrade on water" is in the investment phase. In the investment phase, you can't expect a profit. I have to comment not on Parliament, but on the general public and ask for this dose of correctness towards my colleague Sinisha Malo. Sinisha Mali was there yesterday all day, today from 10.00 hours in parliament and part of this debate, 57 minutes is not there because she has an urgent obligation as finance minister and I am changing it there. I think that the National Assembly should be correct to fellow Mali, who is really here in parliament, respecting this high institution, spends time in debates with MPs, giving arguments regarding legal projects. I'm not really experiencing, nor am I being tangled by a guy who's questioning my ability or, as someone said, the capacity to answer MPs' questions and all of that I have is one comment. When you start dealing with issues that are on the agenda, you'll see my capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50741	Thank you. Now I should apply Rule 109 to anyone who throws, yells, interferes with the speaker, if we're going to stick to the Rules of Procedure, I see by the injuries of the Rules of Procedure that I have to stick to it strictly. I just don't know who to choose. I'm in a dilemma. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, Bosko Obradović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50742	Thank you, Chairman. I really think we've come to a maximum, of all the maximum decline in the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 107. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, that you, Madam Chairman, did not allow all 20 ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to sit here on the 62 legislative proposals proposed by the Government, to sit here with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, to sit here with Finance Minister Sinisa Mali, that all ministers here answer the questions of MPs from their part of responsibility for budgeting and budgeting, but rather that who knows where they are now at the most important assembly meeting in one calendar assembly year. It speaks of disrespect for this high home of the National Assembly. This says that you are thus humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I urge you to stop the meeting until you provide all ministers headed by the Prime Minister to sit and answer the questions of the MPs, because that is their obligation. This is the most important session in the congregation year, and they're not here. What does that mean? This means that they spit on parliament and insult parliament and trample parliament and humiliate parliament. You should not allow that, especially the citizens of Serbia who have not answered a single question – why is the price of fuel, why are pensioners robbed, why has anyone who works in the public sector been robbed, what is the problem, Mr Antic? What's the problem? Did you rob the pensioners for four years? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50743	Ambassador, according to the Rules of Procedure you are now calling, direct address is forbidden, especially in words - what is it, what is it? Member of the Commission, you have abused the Rules of Procedure, Rule 103. Very clear. Because you got at the beginning of this session that all ministers were authorized to talk. Don't yell. Simply Article 103.8 in the time you said so. Injuring the Rules of Procedure, or entering the replica, not to say and that you started yelling at the minister, you simply lost that time. That's what you chose. Thank you so much for helping run the session. It's easier for me when someone deliberately abuses the Rules of Procedure. Here, 14.00 hours and I'll have the MPs who are standing rest, and otherwise I'm distracted, I have to set a break at 1400 hours, and here at 1400 hours break from 60 minutes to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50745	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, to explain how this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the financing of institutions of care for social cases. Namely, there are a few things to say about the Central Register, first of all, that it is an electronically-run database and an electronic service based on IT technology. There was a need to pass a law on the connection of this register, the Central Register, with the other registers. First of all, it is meant by the state authorities, and then it includes the Tax Administration, but not only that, it also needs to be connected to social protection centres, which is very important. The first line in the budget, when we speak, is that the budget is stable and has a social component. What does that mean? It just means that this government takes care of its citizens, unlike in 2008, when the government then fired 400,000 people, and not only that, 400,000 people and their families, so at one point there were millions of people with no means to live. You're a disgrace. Back then, unemployment was 26%, and today it is 11.5%. Why? Because we have a stable budget, because three years in a row we have a surplus in the budget, because GDP in 2012 was minus 3.5%, and today it is plus 4.5%. Now, that's what we have to work on, that every year we have a surplus in our budget. Why? Well, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all. It's a shame to hear this today. Instead of being complex, let's agree on one thing, and that's the problem in our Kosovo and our Metohija. These people act like they fell off Mars. It's a shame. There's a humanitarian disaster going on, we need to talk about it, we need to get help for these people, we need to help them, not talk about things that are unsuspecting. Shame on them, they say the government should fall. Well, let them look up to those Albanians, all complicated, only they talk nonsense. It's a shame. Let me get back to my amendment. First of all, economic progress is seen in social status. What does that mean? We only remember when we came to the city in 2013 what we found. Total disaster. No childcare allowances were paid without talking about social work centers, they were decapitated. The amount of money wasn't paid into those accounts. Imagine when you make a living at the Center for Social Work. So there was no money for the socially endangered population, shame on one. They owed enormously large amounts of money to military insurance, no pensions were paid. All of us have since we came to power, and military pensions, which have ended up not having been this power of the SNS, then Prime Minister and today's president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. We'd be in Strasbourg, just like we ended up, for retirement. We paid our pensions, we paid back our family debt, we paid back our debt to the social work centres. That's how the responsible government of the SNS and its coalition partners works. That's how it's usually done. To finance social protection institutions, of course there are two levels, these are primarily republican and city centres for social work, belong to the city level and are financed from the city budget. Centres for social work, under their authority are primarily homes for old people, homes for children, centres for family accommodation, centres for social work, shelters for children and youth. When I talk about the next amendment, I'll talk about that shelter, what's been going on between 2000 and 2008. No one could get into the shelter from the smell. There's the capacity of 104 people, there were 300 people. As the SNS came to power, the shelter was done properly. It's one decent institution, still a little capacity, but we've worked on it, so it'll be built in the coming years, and another capacity will be developed to provide all the users of the shelter. Social cases have via the Centre for Social Work, primarily health care, then through the Republic Health Fund, and not only that, they have a national kitchen that is being delivered from donations, and above all from the Republic budget and their payment depends primarily on how many members of the family have social assistance. Thank God we came to power, because the mass of people would probably disappear from the face of the Earth, because people simply had nothing to eat. You only remember the time when we found doctors science in containers. It's the credit of these guys across the street. Any, it didn't happen again. Otherwise, I have to mention another state institute, which is the Red Cross, which donates national cuisine, which is becoming less and less fortunate, because it is necessary to employ this people of the Republic of Serbia, and what we did is said in the 2018 data, because foreign direct investments are only in the first six months of a billion and 800 million euros. That's how it works. We've reduced unemployment to 11.5%, we're going to decrease, we're going to continue with this trend, so I hope that in the next five years, I'm sure, the number of unemployed will be below 5%. I'll keep going on about my amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50746	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50747	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, we have before us the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, as well as a set of reform laws that will contribute to the further development of our country, raising the standard of living in Serbia, economic growth and even stronger and more intensive economic progress of our country. The 2019 budget is a social aspect that is linked to the increase in living standards, wages and pensions, and is also never higher in capital investment. This is the result and continuation of the reform processes initiated by the government in 2014. The economic activity in 2018 records intensive growth, the arrival of a large number of investors, and then construction is on the rise, and the service sector is all giving us an overall budget balance. The reform processes carried out have raised the credibility and attractiveness of our foreign investment economy. What is significant is that unemployment is down from over 25% to 11.3%. Third year in a row, we have a surplus in our budget. We managed to bring serious foreign investors. Pension growth that corresponds to Serbia's economic development. We have improved Serbia's international reputation in the world. It is essential that we continue to work and invest in our economy, education, culture, health care, our language, digitisation and continue to employ Serbia. That is why I would like to tell all those who have destroyed our country in different ways for years that the state of Serbia has become strong, stable, fiscally consolidated country, whose name is respectfully pronounced in the world and whose reputation we have regained. That is why we will not allow white-world thieves of domestic origin, and also these domestics who have never done anything good in their lives before, except that their only policy was to rob the state registers and property, to destroy, destroy and rob Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50748	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50749	Thank you, Chairman. We have witnessed two days of certain performance that we have attended here, although, I see, they are not present today, these across the street from us. Did they get tired or didn't lie to them today, I don't know what it is? Mr. Chairman, I'm just going to read a few statements for the citizens. Here's what Bosko Obradovic said in February of this year about Dragan Gilas: "I am now asking one question that I don't know if people have asked themselves, and how are we all opposition now? Here, for example, how is Gilas the opposition? It is a key question for me." So he asked Obradovic. "I'm not going in now when he was mayor, although we can discuss it, but where was Gilas for four years? Dragan Gilas, a councilman at the Belgrade City Assembly? “ Pita Bosko Obradovic in February of this year. In February of this year, Bosko Obradovic attacks Djorđa Vukadinovic and says, "Well, Djole, we all know that you are for Gilas, but don't exaggerate. If you'd engaged this much in 2016, where we'd end up. You stretch people who've been silent for four years, they weren't anywhere while we fought. Well, it's a tragedy if we don't have anyone else." That's what Bosko Obradovic says for Djorđa Vukadinovic, and for the support of Djorđa Vukadinovic Dragan Gilas. Bosko Obradovic was proud to stand behind his video during the same period, in which Dragan Djilas is accused directly of high corruption and in connection with the bridge on Ada. So the Dvori, along with their coalition partners at the time, proudly stood behind the video in which Dragan Gilas was directly accused of corruption in connection with the construction of the Bridge on Ada and Gilas, called pests. That was the same thing in February this year. Let's go a little further into the past, December 7, 2012. The leader of the Dveri Movement, for "The Voice of Western Serbia", says: "We don't see that we are questioning the suspicious business of the largest domestic tycoons, especially those of political, Dusan Petrovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Dragan Djilas, Mladjan Dinkic," Bosko Obradovic, this municipal worker, says here today. "It is time that everyone who participated in robbery privatisations and made themselves rich in politics." Next, Obradovic tells Jeremic that "a pale copy is a Eurofanatic". Look what Jeremic says about Gilas. Jeremic told Djilas, rejecting claims that his presidency would cost seven and a half million dollars, Jeremic suggested that Serbia could chair this United Nations body for 60 years for the price of the bridge through Ada Giganija, without access to traffic, for which I still don't know how much it would cost. And then let's see what Gilas says about that same Jeremic. He says: “In a country where there is not enough money for the most vulnerable, where baby incubators are bought through humanitarian actions, so much money spent annually in New York is embarrassing. ” So, Bosko Obradovic is all about Gilas. Gilas is all about Jeremiah. Jeremy's all about Gilas. They're all the worst about Bosko Obradovic. And then they wonder why the people called them "a cup of coalition". They are. A cabbage coalition. It is clear from this that there is no ideology, that there is one basic motive, which is the money given to them by their policy-makers who represent them here today, and their policy is only directed against Serbia and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50750	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on line, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50751	Thank you, Chairman. It is truly charming to listen to various political flyers all day long as they give us political lectures. Fleeing from the Serbian Radical Party, defected as counterpart Tomic from the Democratic Party of Serbia, fled from all possible parties and today all found their refuge in the Serbian Progressive Party, as in fact, the main centre of all political flyers in Serbia. And they teach someone classes, that's really funny. What is crucial here is that they answer the question – how did it come to be that the French Prime Minister, Edward Philip, said today – should be deaf and blind not to hear or see this rage. The French who wore the yellow vests want the tax to drop and want the job, so they can pay. That's what we want. So the French prime minister abolished all proposed fiscal measures including fuel tax, starting on January 1st in response to protests by citizens throughout France, popularly called – the movement of yellow vests. That's why I'm wearing a yellow vest here today to point out the tax that you've raised here, the property tax, VAT and fuel tax that you've raised here, the salaries and pensions that you've reduced here and the fact that there are still two ministers sitting here in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 21 of them all, that there are no presidents of the Republic of Serbia here, and that you have no willingness at all to talk to the MPs and that you practically otherwise, you've tied 62 points to the Rules of Procedure here on the work of the National Assembly to one point so that it doesn't discuss how much the price of the ravina is, how you robbed the Malians, how you robbed the pensioners, by stealing your people's money from foreign investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50752	Thank you. Alexander Markovic, replica, and Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50753	I thank the chairman. I was wrong a little while ago, there was a living room, and I see everyone's here, yet Gilas paid off the diaries for today's savagery. Well, says the previous speaker, he's been here all day trying to obstruct the debate mentioning a period when the SNS didn't finance itself from the budget. And, yes, the SNS did not finance itself in one period of its political action from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but that's why its movement has always been financed from the budget. We remember a period when, and it was a tragic period in the functioning of Serbia's economy, when the Dvori funded exclusively from the budget by pumping money out of Columbus. So, from the Colubara, they got years of support for their political activities, but before that, when they were directly getting money from the Ministry of Faith, and then from the Ministry of Diaspora and so on. When the SNS took over, they couldn't finance themselves from Serbia's budget anymore, but then they found other sponsors. Then Draga Gilas appeared who started sponsoring them, who is sponsoring them today, and we came to the conclusion that Bosko Obradovic today is his striker here, his co-ordinator of all these parliamentary groups that support Dragan Gilas' politics. However, what I wanted to point out to you earlier is a sensitive political moment in which Serbia is located. When a ring is tightened around Serbia, when we have pressures both outside and out of Podgorica, and from Skopje, and from Sarajevo, not to talk about Pristina both in this and such politically sensitive moment that we have here. We have the rampage, the two-day here, the organized rampage of all MPs across the street, and it clearly shows that it's a center that controls this action that we have here today. That is why I want to point out that Serbian citizens know what this is about, it is a pact against Serbia, but that pact against Serbia is in direct coalition with this alliance against Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50754	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50755	True, many flew and left the SRS. Whoever under what circumstances and under what conditions will judge history and everyone bears their political responsibility, the historical responsibility for every move he makes in politics, but all those who back the formation of the SNS at the time, are now under Boška Obradovica's co-ordinatorial stick. Bosko Ljoticevic Obradovic is someone who has the least right here to mention the SRS. We Serbian radicals exposed him before anyone else. We've also revealed that Helandar robbed him and who financed him all in the course of his existence. We were the first to discover that he was laundering money from the state budget during the election campaign, buying suits, as if he were paying some hundreds of thousands of dinars to electricians, and he never answered what the electricians were doing to him in the election campaign. I don't know how many bulbs it took to replace and spend that kind of money. Someone we know all about and who we talk about in public better not to mention us. That he's trying to impose on citizens, voters in Luciani, he won't get away with it either. To hell with it, he can't explain in Luciani that he's coming with Gilas, with Jeremic, with Lutovac, with no idea who's not in that SIS agency. Now, they have a problem inside. They cannot bear that Bosko Obradovic is their co-ordinator, and he is their co-ordinator, and he is proud of it. They're trying to cover it up and, you know, they're having a conflict like Bosko always had with his associates, like he scattered everything from that Dwri elder of theirs just to make a material use of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50756	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović: Replica! ) Right to replica Mr. Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50757	Thank you, Chairman. I can understand when the government is nervous, but when someone who represents themselves as an opposition is protecting power, and this has been done here for months by Ms. Verica Radeta, and indeed there is no better servant of this authority than Verica Radete, Vojislav Seselj, Nenada Chanka and Chad Jovanovic, and I really don't want to be in that society that serves Alexander Vukic than even many of the ruling majority here, because whenever you mention Vukic and when you say something negative about him, the first person who jumps to defend him is Verica Radeta and Vojislav Seselj. For two and a half years, Verica Radeta has been sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and has never uttered one sentence against Alexander Vukic, because she knows that Vojislav Seselj said – don't mention Vukic, we have the money to keep our mouth shut, you can attack everyone else, but don't touch Vukica. He also received money from Nenad Canak, who sits in the City of Novi Sad Assembly in power. He also got Cedomir Jovanovic's money so he wouldn't be broke and he wouldn't be broke, so he has to come here to defend power. That's the first thing. The other thing that is crucial here is that we see you, gentlemen, as Sinisa Mali sits in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and is responsible for the robbery privatisations, that Goran Vesic is your deputy mayor of Belgrade and the real mayor of Belgrade, and he is sitting in the former regime, as Jelena Trivan is the director of the "Official Messenger", as Nebojsa Krstic, your adviser to President Tadic, is your best friend, Aleksandr Vukic. Where is Mladjan Dinkic, who here in this House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has you dressed up as a prison suit? Well, here he is, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, advisor to Alexander Vukic. Don't let us tell those empty stories anymore. You're the former regime! You are the highlight of DOS! You took all the worst flyers in your ranks. You must first arrest the men of your ranks, who are responsible for the robbery privatisations, and then report back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50758	Thank you. I haven't really seen anyone insult as many people as you in two minutes. (Radoslav Milojičić: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50759	Mr. Marinkovic, I don't really know how to address you, how to call you? I've been advertising the Rules of Procedure for five minutes. You know the Rules of Procedure have priority over the other speakers. This morning you prayed for the calm of passion, to speak with dignity, in the spirit of parliamentaryism, and you don't respect it. Do you really mind when someone here says a pact has been made against Serbia? Does that really seem right to you and does it really seem normal to you and will you continue to pretend that you didn't hear it and then you don't understand any of the opposition's moves? Well, the opposition must defend the dignity of the citizens who have been stolen, which the SNS has been demeaning and its dignity. I would really like to hear from you whether it bothers you when someone tells you that anyone in this country has made a pact against Serbia, let alone those in power with Ramush Haradinaj and Hashi Thaci, such as the SNS, when those whose party was created in the thieving and stealing of the mandate of the SRS... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50760	My colleague Milojičić, I'm taking up your time from the time of the parliamentary group. (Radoslav Milojic: For what? Because you abused the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: What did I abuse? I let you go for a minute and a half to talk, thinking you'd point to my breach of the Rules of Procedure, but really... Article 103, Section 8, look at the Rules of Procedure, and you'll be clear, please. Thank you. Radeta: Replica! Vladimir Orlic answered. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic): First you have to ask me if I want to plead... No, no. I've taken up time, in accordance with Article 103 of Section 8. National MP Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50761	Of course, he loves to deal with SNS. Anyone who's there on this side of theirs and those who appear now, the licensed representatives of the yellow company, but also those coordinators of theirs, who wore a yellow suit back years under their shirt, thought it would never be seen, but we saw it and understood it very well, and now they decided to point it out a little bit, to see it better. They haven't changed in that sense, and nothing about how we are experiencing them or how they are experienced by Serbian citizens. It's clear to us that they're yellow long ago, yellow that the bile can't be. Today they advertise, this coordinator of the Gilas Union and those who must listen to him, not to us how right they are, how wrong they are, but they must listen to him, the street violence and riots that we, unfortunately, could see in France. They know very well what it means and they know very well what they're advertising... (Radoslav Milojic: That we will replace you. )......................................................................................................... But citizens who follow this, that they may hear, not those uncultural ones that earn, from them, and we don't expect any better. You're the only one doing your job. So they advertise street violence, advertise millions of damages, advertise destruction and private property and state institutions and cultural heritage. They advertise the columns of burning cars as something wonderful and beautiful that they would now want here in Belgrade to happen to us, but the scariest and scariest of all – advertise and murder of people. Four people paid their lives for what's going on in Paris. If you want to do so in Belgrade, if you want to do so in Serbia, in a country that is fighting and tormenting today, you know very well how many sides at the same time and you know very well what is happening to our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and you, while it happens, want violence here in Belgrade, destruction, arson, destruction of property, you want dead heads, what is it if it's not a pact against Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50762	Thank you. Injury to the Rules of Procedure of Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50763	Thank you, Chairman. A member of the 107th National Assembly has been injured because we allow Mr. Milojic to talk about stealing in this house, and I have a few questions for him only in this regard. One would be the basis, and that's where the Glibovac - Kosadak water line is? There's no answer to that. There's no answer to where the three pump stations are abandoned, empty, flooded. This pipeline has been charged by the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka millions of dinars, and there's no sign of the pipeline, no sign. [[Marco Djurisic: This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure or replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50764	Go back only to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of Christmas. Please don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50765	He's referring to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's part of the Rules of Procedure, please – injured dignity of the National Assembly, because we allow lies to be made here, to transfer SNS to something for which the gentleman who took the word has absolutely no right, because we can ask him where the money is for internally displaced persons, stealing the playground for the palace children, criminal mob affair Dom JNA, abuse and robbery through sports collectives, the "Garaza" affair, the Mikulja affair, the "Nick Shoes" affair...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50766	Thank you. Please don't replicate. Radeta: Replica! ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! () Right to the replica of the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50767	If Kena and these men had thought of stealing his mandate in 2008, what he's saying today, no one would have stolen our mandates since they stole them. As for this Ljotic, Bosko LJotic, take me in to remind him that he was the one who went to Alexander Vukic and asked him to talk to him, that he was thinking of him, that he might receive him. Well, when he didn't want to, then he became supposed to be an opposition. He doesn't know who the opposition is or who he supports. He would now be there in Dragacev to introduce himself, reminding them that he was some sort of a major nationalist, and then bringing them Sandu, for whom Storm was a legitimate act, which claims to have been genocide in Srebrenica. Then people get confused, they say, "Wait, are you more that nationalist you used to introduce yourself to or are you now this new one dressed up?" Which, of course, is true that the new one was changed, that he was never an honest nationalist. He brings them both Gilas and Jeremic, and then people forget that he went to Scott, that he took pictures with Chad, that he took pictures with Vuk Jeremic. You know, someone like that can't go to Dragacevo and say, "Serb brothers and sisters, I Serbian." He's a Serb at birth, but he's not a nationalist. He now has a serious problem, he is now in the company of those who, when it's in September or I don't know when, most of them go out on a gay parade, and he's on that day, until this year, he's going to organize some kind of family walk and now he doesn't know what he's going to do, whether he's going to go on a gay parade, whether he's going on a family walk. Falsifying was a family walk, a heart, a conscience, thinking is exactly who it is with now: Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Gilas, Sanda, this, as it is already called, Democratic President etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50768	Thank you. Let's move on, we're closing the circle of replicas. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica. ) (Dijana Vukomanovic: Replica, can't do that. ) (Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure, with me Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50769	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have a very important set of laws and I am not surprised by the aggression of MPs from the circle of the LJotic-Tykun Alliance, because from day to day they experience a debacle wherever they walk. So also a few days ago in my Kruševec tried to perform some protest walk, gathered from all cities, from Leskovec to Belgrade, and raised barely 150 souls to fill the Cultural Centre's hall. And they boast of all their mouths, led by the coordinator and all the others allegedly injured by that alliance of theirs. But they forget that Serbian citizens do not forget and remember well what they left behind in 2012. Here today we can boast that the budget for next year for the Ministry of Health has been increased by 7.7%, that in one day we have returned the public debt they have left us and that of $1.3 billion. What did they leave aside from a closed factory, 400,000 street workers and misery that we can't recover from them for years? And they'd come back again and harass Serbia, so they won't be able to. They often mention Mr. Bratislava Gasic. Well, gentlemen need to know that Bratislav Gasic in Krusevec left a new face by having a responsible policy, headed by the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, led the city to an unrecognizable appearance now. And their Djidic, Milivojevic and other friends from Kruševac who are now leading the Alliance left a wasteland, a closed factory "14. October", closed "The Trajal", "Merima" and all other factories. The city, which was the fourth in the old Yugoslavia by 2002, has fallen to the lowest branches and would now rule again. I am only impressed that in this alliance in Krusevec, among other things, Mr Milivojevic, known here as "the example", so with him of the 0.3% they had in the previous elections, will now have certainly 003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50770	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, as amended. Here you go. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I checked in a few minutes ago. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50771	I was looking for a replica of Mrs. Radette's presentation that mentioned me. So, Vojislav Seselj and several people from his closest environment, including Mrs Verica Radeta, one of the perjanica, are dealing with political abdominalism. Seselj is known as the favorite opposition of any government...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50772	My colleague Raskovic Ivić, so you're speaking according to the amendment. Don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50773	I'm talking about the replica, because I'm mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50774	No replica, please. (Radoslav Milojic: No way, Verica mentioned. ) According to the amendment, I would not like to join you in such a kind of duel and conversation, please speak according to the amendment, because I have closed the circle of replicas according to the amendment that has passed. We are now on a brand-new amendment by Dr Dragane Barisic. Please make this debate as correct as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50775	If we're going to discuss Mrs Barisic's amendment then I can say a few words there, which is to see...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50776	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50777	What? And that's where we can see that this is about telling fairy tales that are in charge of colleagues from the SNS, who were personally charged by Alexander Vukic. Namely, this whole discourse that we're listening to not only today, not only yesterday, but all the time is one big fairy tale about the successes and reading the written literary compositions, so here is colleague Barisic, who is otherwise a psychiatrist and my colleague read it and made it out. I'm really this sad to see that someone who's a doctor, another psychiatrist, can act completely out of line with their own safety and against the truth. It does nothing but give its political voters political bensedin, and it certainly is joined by Mrs Radeta, who I must mention now, although you said that this circle of replicas, which mentioned me and who mentioned me in the worst possible context, is a large part of the lie and relying on "Croatian press". No wonder Vojislav Seselj's voice was that he was nothing but one of the most common Croatian spies and a man who works for the Croatians, and then there was the constant swearing and calling on the inscriptions "Croatian Press". Those who appeal to the inscriptions “Croatian press, ” may it serve them in honor. (Dragana Barisic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50778	Thank you. Natasa Jovanovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50779	I contacted my colleague Marinkovic ten minutes ago after Bosko Obradovic was exposed. Namely, you were supposed to be one, first of all...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50780	My colleague Jovanovic, I beg you, I am in charge of the session, do not take her. If you want to talk about my injury to the Rules of Procedure after the speech by Dr Dragana Barisic and Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, it is acceptable for me, but do not take it upon yourself to lead you to manage the session and to advertise the Rules of Procedure on what was and what was past. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50781	You hurt Article 27, you injured Article 107 because you did not protect the dignity of the National Assembly. Namely, you were obliged to protect your colleague and vice-president of the Assembly, Mrs. Verice Radet from aggression and I would say really unaccountable behavior of Bosko Obradović. You sat still and kept your mouth shut. I will insist that the Assembly declare this day. It's not his first time. He physically harassed one member of RIK, of course under the Scott directive and those who made a big fraud against Bosko Obradovic and that so-called Dveri movement. Then, through the insolence of the President of the Assembly, and now the verbal insolence of fellow Radet, you have silenced it. What do you expect from a man who on this day, who is a great religious holiday and swears to be a great Serb and Orthodox, treats a woman like that? What do you expect from a man who invents and lies about his visits to the greatest Serbian shrine of Hilandar? Not only am I and the SRS, according to Milos Stojkovic, a religious analyst, who repeatedly gave interviews in public and said Bosko Obradovic made up that he cheated on the SPC and the monks in Hilandara, and even that he himself had to come from the restaurant "Kraljevo", located across the Dvori Movement, to bring him money. I'm looking at yesterday and today, he's co-ordinator of all these traitors he's teaming up with, so now I'm gonna hear what they're gonna get, and they are because they betrayed Serbia. They are still working on the orders of Serbian enemies, in a very difficult situation for our people at KIM. What do you expect from someone who based his entire platform of political action on lies?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50782	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50783	One more sentence, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50784	I can't give you that sentence yet, because it's really time. And I'm going to have to, as Mr. Milojicic, take away your time from the MP's group. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Just try. I have to do this really, because I have to put in some order. (The Faith of Radet: How will you take away from him when he is gone?) So, you all make sure that we respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to try to be some peacemaker here, correct to everyone, that we have a normal session of parliament, and you're abusing it. Okay, now I'm gonna start using the Rules of Procedure strictly. Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You just did what I advertised the Rules of Procedure for. (Mihailo Jokic: Sit down then. I wanted you to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, because I don't think it's worthy to say to a colleague that he's incompetent. And, uh, to throw from a fellow SNS to sit down, of course I'm going to sit down, just take the opportunity to say and write to the priest. And I congratulate my brothers in the Hilandar monastery, my brother in Christ Methodius and my Christ brothers on the glory of the Hilandar monastery of the Holy Mother, when I am no longer present to share with them the joy of this holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50786	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has Verica Radet, a replica, and then Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50787	Sanda Raskovic Ivić is the most immoral thing that exists in this parliament. She's the woman who came to the National Assembly as party president, now that Scott's pushed in, that's the second part of the story, and the party whose president took the mandate. In the meantime, I don't know whose it was, and I guess now it's the vice president of Vuk Jeremic's. Is there anything worse that can happen in the National Assembly and something that can defile parliament's face like what Sanda Raskovic Ivić did? That's a fact. On the other hand, what she just said, I will remind Sanda Raskovic Ivić of something her dad, Jovan Raskovic, was saying in the summer of 1990. Speaking with Franjo Tudjman and Slaven Letica, Jovan Raskovic said, in the summer of 1990, "My wife is Croatian. My grandchildren are Croats and I want them to stay Croats, so they don't have a complex because they live in Croatia." Now, who has the interest of spying on someone, let the people who are watching this National Assembly conclude that, for God's sake, all the MPs. So don't play games, gentlemen, to get into a game where you can't win. Take care of yourself, your morale, your integrity, and since it's not there, then you have to find, lie, to someone else this or that. They don't like it with the SRS, I can't. It wouldn't have occurred to them that we're going, far away, into a coalition with this SIS agency. Of course, they're worse than SNS. We're opposition to each other and we want to beat the SRS, but we want to beat it, not let the scum come after them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50788	Thank you. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica. I've got a full list here. We've gone too far, to Slava Letica. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica! Dijana Vukomanovic: Her family is attacking! Bosko Obradovic: Name her father! Radoslav Milojic: What does this look like? Her father was called. She's got cheeks unlike you. ) I determine in accordance with Article 112. It can't be done, don't be angry, in these conditions. Either we work, or we don't work. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Radoslav Milojčić: Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure. ) (Bosko Obradović: Rules of Procedure. ) (Snada Raskovic Ivić: Rules of Procedure. I took a break after calling for article 112. According to the amendment, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the previous speakers said – how do you not understand what the opposition is doing? We understand what part of the opposition is doing. (Bosko Obradovic: So you were talking about Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic that they were thieves! ) Ramush Haradinaj said that 100% taxes on products from central Serbia... (Bosko Obradovic: How are you not ashamed? Radoslav Milojic: Sit down! Keep yelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50791	My colleague Martinovic, I apologize. I know that you here want to make some chaos, an incident, to challenge us, to warn you, but it won't work. (Radoslav Milojic: You're making an incident! Give us your word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) I ask that we provide colleagues with Martinovic to address the citizens and the National Assembly. Here you go. (Bosko Obradović: Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50792	So Ramush Haradinaj said that fees of 100% will be abolished or when Serbia recognises the independence of KIM or when Aleksandar Vukic falls out of power. (Bosko Obradović: Rules of Procedure! ) This hourglass that Ramush Haradinaj set slowly leaks. This is now all Ramush Haradinaj's infantry. It would be good to know who has what rank. It would be good to know who has what rank in Ramush Haradinaj's army. For example, this yellow coordinator, he could be a general – a laytnant of Ramush's army. This one here that ruined the Smederian Palanca could be for example. Colonel. (Radoslav Milojic: Sit down...) This former minister of justice...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50793	My friend Milojic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50794	He could be the major of Ramush Haradinaj's army. So, the citizens of Serbia are all clear. This is Ramush Haradinaj's army. (Slavisa Ristic: He made a government with you! ) They were sent to the Serbian Parliament to create chaos in Serbia... (Bosko Obradovic: You sold your soul to Haradinaj!) )......................................................................................................... because it is the term which He has appointed for them. You understand what this is about? Ramush Haradinaj set a deadline for her. (Bosko Obradovic: Where is Ramush?) That's why they're so nervous. Ramush Haradinaj has set a 15-day deadline for them to bring down Alexander Vukic from power, and that hourglass leaks, and the man has given you a lot of money, and you know what they are, they want to give, but then they're awkward when they give you money and you don't do the job. That's why they're so nervous. It expires for 15 days, and they cannot bring down Alexander Vukic. That's why the yellow vests, which is why he calls for violence, which is why he calls for the burning of Belgrade, which is why he calls for the collapse. He's very nervous about this yellow coordinator. Try another yellow vest to wear. Something that's much more important. (Bosko Obradovic: Return the wages you stole from the people. () Something that is much more important. As you know, a few days ago one about so-called. Alliance for Serbia leader Nebojsa Zelenovic complained to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg that the government in the Republic of Serbia is suppressing it, or that the rights of the mayor of Sapac are being suppressed because he is from the opposition. Now I'm going to read you just one piece of the report from the DRI on the business of the city of Sapca for 2015 and it would be good, Mr. Minister, to hear this, so that you can see that Nebojsa Zelenovic is no political martyr, but the man who financially ruined the town of Shabac, who is aware of it and then tries to make himself a political martyr, so complains to his political allies in the Council of Europe that we are allegedly oppressing him from the SNS. This is just one part of the report from the DRI on the business of the town of Šapca, and otherwise there's a Sabbath lord, he knows best what it's about. The fee for the use of city-building land shall be, in accordance with the provisions of Article 45. [[Dusan Petrovic: How about a replica?]] The Law on municipal activities does not determine from 1 January 2014. The revenue realised in 2015 is 43 million 801 thousand dinars, a million 19,000 dinars less than planned revenues. The revenue realised refers to the claims collected from earlier years. The outstanding claim on 31 December 2015 is 178 million 613 thousand dinars. According to the responsible person’s statement 1,150 warnings and 139 decisions on forced collection were sent. The renting income, i.e. on the use of real estate in state property used by the authorities, cities and indirect users of their budget, is then said – the town of Sabac has 12 units of business space of 807 square meters, which is managed by the Public Enterprise "Stan" Sabac. We are presented with an act, watch this, DRI was presented with an act from 1966, which was given to this company to manage the business space at its disposal of the town of Sabac. In light of the decision to amend the founding act of the Public Enterprise "Stan" Sabac, as of 7 June 2013, we found that the city of Sabac entrusted this company with the conclusion of lease contracts and charges the rent and cost of using the business space, i.e. to conclude lease agreements. On 31 December 2015, all 12 units of business space were leased. The amount of the lease shall be determined by the supervisory board of undertakings, and in the case of new tenants an oral public competition procedure shall be carried out. The lease shall be paid to the business account of the company and shall not be paid to the budget. In 2015, the public company Stan obtained revenues from the lease of a business space of nine million 421 thousand dinars, while the unpaid lease claim amounts to a million 263 thousand dinars. The worst part is this, the town of Shabac in its business books, here is the Nahi prince of the Sabbath, he knows what it is, on the day of December 31st 2015 he runs 72 apartments that he has under the House Act. Based on statements by responsible persons, including Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic, it was found that the use of these apartments by 2001 regulated the city by concluding a contract on the use of apartments. After 2001, the obligation to conclude a lease contract is prescribed. The city concluded lease contracts only for those apartments for which ransom applications were submitted. Users, mentioned 72 apartments, so 72 apartments in the town of Šapcu use these apartments without contracts and without paying the rent. The city of Sabac thus achieved a budget deficit of nine million 421 thousand dinars, etc. So it's about people robbing cities that are headed. They're no political martyrs, they're no opposition. These are the people who systematically destroy local self-governments standing on a tuxedo, and a typical example of such local self-government, which is systematically ruined by a cage for Serbia, is the town of Sabac, and therefore the SNS draws attention to the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Capca that they are concerned with people who are involved in crime, who have brought on themselves the suits of politicians to save themselves from criminal persecution and to be saved from prison. How do you do that? That's what Nebojsa Zelenovica was taught by his political father, the Nahihi prince of the Sabbath, who is here at Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50795	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. There's a lot of people down there. Is anyone reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50796	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Namely, you violated this member by allowing Mrs. Verity Radetti to insult me, not only as a National MP. I don't care much, because people like her are afraid not to compliment him, and when they say I'm something, that she tells me I'm the most immoral thing, then I'll take it as a compliment. However, what I cannot allow is the count of blood cells and insults and the carrying out of things about my late father, Jovan Raskovic, who is an icon of many Krajina Serbs, whom many Serbs in Serbia and throughout the former Yugoslavia, and today, more than 26 years from his death, respect. Mrs. Radeta has shown an unprecedented necrophilic urge, as she slows down and attacks Jovan Raskovic, counts his family's blood cells. She also attacked that unfortunate Hattidge. So again, the dead woman seems to be specializing in that. I'd like to say one more thing. Also, you allow, Mr. Chairman, that here Mr. Martinovic and the rest of the SNS society systematically insult all people, not only from the Alliance for Serbia, but also from other MPs of the opposition, and they are the cavalry of Ramush Haradinaj, who is not known as the horse and who is the rider.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50797	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word is Dr Dragana Barisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50798	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 108. - in the session of the National Assembly, you're looking after yourself. I had the right to reply a little while ago, because my esteemed colleague was a neuropsychiatrist, but from the opposite camp, from Gilas's tycoon-lyotic regime, she said and had something against what I'm saying about the amendment, which I have the right to endure and defend, and to mention my city. I'm not ashamed to say that I'm a Serbian, that I come from Krushevac, my beloved Kruševec, and that I'm talking about the city where I live and where my children grow up. Otherwise, the policy I represent is the policy of Mr. Alexander Vukic, and I am proud of it, and unlike those whose speeches are written by foreign embassies and expensive coats, the speeches I present in this Assembly I write myself. In fact, I'm not writing them, I'm saying them out of my head, because simply what was done over the past few years is visible, and the citizens confirm it from election to election. Otherwise, when I hear my distinguished colleague say "Storm" is a legitimate military action, I am ashamed to be a colleague of the same, because I think "Storm" is the most monstrous crime against the Serb people. And, therefore, it is a shame for anyone in this home to say anything on this subject without condemning a crime against the Serb people. What can he say, that he thinks better of this people, that he advocates better Serbia? Well, her late father turns into a grave when he sees who he's with now and what he's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50799	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50800	Article 32. First of all, Mr. Marinkovic, I can't, tell Mrs. Sandi Raskovic Ivić, since I speak in my Rules of Procedure exactly rightly, tell Sandy Raskovic Ivić that I can't specialize in anything. I can specialize eventually. The truth is, I wasn't counting her blood cells and her kids, it was her dad. I was just quoting Jovan Raskovic. The fact that he's not alive really has nothing to do with it. You know, that dead flossula all the best, that's something that's absolutely unacceptable. We will all be dead one day and, of course, everyone will be told what he deserved while he was alive, and so will I, and for God's sake, Sandra Raskovic Ivić. It will remember generations of Serbs that she said on the show that the "Storm" is a legitimate act of the Ustasha army. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Lašesh. ) It is true, as is true, that her father, Jovan Raskovic, told Franji Tudjman and Letica that we are a Serbian mad people. So, it's all absolutely true, all that remains unrecorded and it's really pathetic that someone washes and shames their father in this way. If he said so, he said. If she is, but the problem is, the bigger the problem, which she after all justified "Storm" as a legitimate act and what she said was genocide in Srebrenica. I was with her on one show and I proved to her that she had said it all. I had everything black on white, so she said – I just repeated what the leader said. Imagine. Said the leader and she repeated it. And, said Slaven Letica and she repeated it. So Sanda Raskovic Ivić can't wash off what she said, he can do as much as he wants and he can specialize in whatever he wants, but her specialty is an immoral woman and a folk MP. Immoral.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50801	Thank you. What does this look like? (Maya Vidinović: warn her. The opposition's emissaries are insecure. I once again have to call that... You obviously have the same scenario as yesterday. Yesterday, you were mobbing Maja Gojkovic. Today, me and my colleague Arsic. You're trying to... Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? No, I don't. ) Because of the inability to continue, of course, under this amendment I am taking a break in accordance with point 112 of the five minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica. ) Mr Igor Becic has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Becic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50803	Dear Chairman, all the masks have fallen in these two days because there is a special war on the scene against Serbia. Pristina's latest actions are a difficult violation of the CEFTA agreement, endangering the lives of Serbs in KIM and also regional instability. The release of the criminal Naser Oric and his threat to Vukic, Hoxhaja's statements and his calls and pressures on the creation of an anti-Serbian pact, the preparation of criminals in Pristina to form the Kosovo army on December 14th and the ultimate goal of banishing the Serb people from KIM because they are being denied survival. For months now, there has been an empty hall across the street, and then only one tranche of dollars and a handful of euros from Gilas and those who want Serbia on their knees to fill the hall is enough with the opposition who only learned one sentence from Gilas's programme and warrant -- we hate Vukic, we hate Serbia. Those who have been evicting the entire parliamentary groups from this room today are talking about the collapse of parliament. The fact that Serbia, with President Vukic, has started to win, implement successful reforms, create jobs, raises its international reputation seriously and becomes a leader in the region, a stability factor and becomes internationally influential, resulting in recognition of Kosovo's independence from one country at a time. It is clear that because of all this we have to join those who want to see Serbia on their knees, easy prey to rob and kidnap. Those who, whenever it is difficult for Serbia to try to destabilize Serbia, who most often attack, those who wish to see Serbia on their knees, do not wish well to their people, just want to touch those who pay the most, whether it is Gilas, whether it is Vuk Jeremic, whether Americans, Brits, Croats, Albanians, it doesn't matter, only that it is in a solid currency. Under the pretext that they are fighting for the right of citizens, Serbian opposition actors are planning to apply a French scenario in Belgrade that involves the burning of state institutions and cultural goods. A protest in the National Assembly over fuel prices in Serbia. McCron needs to talk and meet those who set fire to half of Paris. Are you calling on Bosko to burn half of Belgrade? Their idea is to burn Belgrade, robbing shops without fear of causing bloodshed trying to get their hands on the authorities, knowing that in the elections it will not go hand in hand anytime soon. As they speak of the fact that Makron had to meet those who burned half of Paris, Obradovic forgets that the conflicts in France left at least three people dead and hundreds injured. Is that what you want in Belgrade? It seems that Bosko Obradovic, who is not foreign to attack women, understands only the language of violence and doesn't care much about the victims. (Bosko Obradovic: Are you crazy? In the end, you can't get people together at your meetings any differently, so you're giving hope to the hooligans that if they come to the rally they'll be able to burn and rob in Belgrade. Will the ministers, to tax these gains across the street, at least the citizens of Serbia benefit from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50804	Thank you, colleague Becic. Maja Gojkovic, he has a word. People's MPs resent it. ) We know all of this, you don't have to do everything on the bis, let us work, and participate in the work most normal. Maja Gojkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50805	May I, or may I not? I think I'm asking this group of 12, 13 MPs who have been screaming for two days. What's the problem? I mean, I don't understand you at all. I mean, did you go to sleep or is this something new today, the second act "Die a Man," what. Dear Chairman, I'd like you to plead if I could talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, or should I withdraw under this great pressure, here I am terrified of them for 10, 13 hours?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50806	I will defend your right to the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50807	Come on, thank you. So, I just wanted to, if my colleagues accepted, 106, 108. I really don't have any intention, except to say that this behavior of yours is really funny today. (Alexandra Jerkov: You are a laugh. Yes, I'm a laugher, but you're yearning to be like me someday. Slowly, slowly, life goes, another 20, 30 years, and it'll be something of you. It's not a problem. Take it easy. So, 106, you're not allowed to throw away, you're not allowed to interfere with the speaker, otherwise. So, yelling is not intended for the Rules of Procedure, Konstantinovic forgot to write, and like any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. What it looked like to the chairman of this, while Ambassador Igor Becic spoke, exposed and read. Do you want to ban him from reading, he wants a democratic option to forget to read? What to read, what you were preparing. Come on, please. So you're obliged to apply yourself in article 108, don't be afraid, just brave, they're brave, only when they're in a group, when they're sitting here screaming at you, they think we're gonna die of fear and stop applying the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov: Why don't you chair? I don't know if you know, that according to that time frame that's funnier, and you know, it's your buddy, you don't really get up at the meetings, and Haradinaj, don't mind, we know how you behave, you don't leave the gatherings because of the star, it's already settled with you. So they said Wolfie had to fall in so many days. There are 14 days left, nice to go get something to eat, get changed, flat shoes, you'll be standing for more than 14 days. Vukic will not fall, because it is not up to you, but rather from the citizens of Serbia and because Happy can't bring him down from Pristina, you are here to create chaos in Serbia when it needs support and when it needs citizens of Serbia, who live in the territory of KIM, who are shocked by your behaviour, who call here the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, who expected you to stand here today in the name of their freedom and their lives, and not to stand here because of false violations of the Rules of Procedure and because you have nothing to say and you want to bring down the last base of defense of the Republic of Serbia, which is Alexander Vukic. We understand what you're doing and go ahead. Go ahead, the citizens of Serbia are watching you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50808	Thank you. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) ) (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) ) (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50809	You know what, since they're screaming at you, and since it's not easy to run a session... (Radoslav Milojic: Twice gets the word in the Rules of Procedure.) Here they are, just let the cameras show. I have to yell because they're screaming, so they can't hear me well in the transmission. Can I finish? I can't hear myself!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50810	And I can hardly hear you, please. I hope he comes to his senses.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50811	I have time, no problem, they don't have time. So when they let me answer you, I'll answer, I can't. You know how much I spent at the pharmacy on those pastels so I could talk, because I snuck up, I'm outsmarting the MPs. I'll wait. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) Is this how everybody's gonna get their hands on the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50812	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50813	It is difficult, as in The Hague tribunal today to say yes or no, I must explain why not. It's not easy to say yes or no. (Maya Vidinovic: What is this? How did she get the word? Radoslav Milojic: Twice in a row gets the word. You're letting Maya answer and by hurting the Rules of Procedure. Well, not just because you... I'll wait, I'll fight for my word. My freedom of speech is compromised (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure). )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50814	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure. Do you think you'll get any results with this? According to the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50815	So I'd like to ask if Bosko Obradovic can give me one yellow vest. (Bosko Obradovic: The Chairman of the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs are insolent. People's MPs speak out loud. ) (Bosko Obradovic: It is not normal not to let people speak. You're just making it worse. (Sandra Christmas: get back to your seat. People's MPs speak out loud. Do you know how this ends? They start beating you, I've had it. It's not a problem. So, I'd like to be allowed to plead. (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure. ) Can I plead to be heard, it's very important because of the record? It's not a regular session if I don't come forward. So, please, Chairman, make order in the O.R., ask Bosko Obradovic to give us the yellow vests because they're harassing us. I think he should take it off the same way he took it off when he went to lunch. He doesn't wear it all the time to give it to us. Do you see what it looks like, only when someone takes it and imitates it? I just wanted to show them how they behave, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50816	Thank you. People's MPs speak out loud. The People's Messengers are insolent. I will not absolutely allow you to act like this and to destructively act on the work of the National Assembly and these sessions. We're going back to work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. People's MPs speak out loud. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50817	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, my amendment refers to the Central Registry which electronic service for operational, released for work, which implies that all employers and citizens of Serbia can at any time know whether they are registered or checked out by their employers who can know exactly whether their working status is defined by the employer. But today we simply have a situation in parliament that some MPs do not want to discuss this law at all, and I think that, the chairman, they are in a position to give a broader topic. Let's also talk about Serbia's budget and I think that this amendment and, like all amendments to my colleagues, is aimed at improving the law that is currently working on the digitisation of Serbia. When we talk about fuel prices, I think you've had a chance to ask the Minister of Energy for the price of fuel, to see that the price of fuel is less than it was last year, that the price of fuel defines the price of crude oil and the price of excise duties conditioned by the rate difference in dollars. The opposition's emissaries are earning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50818	Excuse me, colleague, I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50819	Nothing, I now explain to the chairman that you hear the problems of those who want to hear the answers to questions here through certain violations of the Rules of Procedure, who do not want to say whether they agree with those who introduce fees of 100% Serbs living in Kosovo Mitrovica or who oppose it, because Serbia's budget will have to support that people living in Kosovo and Metohija and simply allow normal lives for people there. So, the Republika Srpska budget also defines budgeting for Serbs located in Kosovo and Metohija. It is up to all MPs here to make clear what they think about the problems that happened at the same time and by Serbs who live, who have problems in Montenegro and those who have in Macedonia and those who have problems in Republika Srpska and how suddenly the big Albanian project begins to live in these areas, these are all the topics that we can talk about here... (Marco Djurisic: We can't get a word, so we're talking.) Who voted for Kadri Happy? )......................................................................................................... and even when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and especially when the Central Register is like...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50820	Marko Djurisic, a reminder. You can't act like this. Marko Djurisic: Just give me your word. You can't interrupt your colleague and throw her away all the time. Marko Djurisic: Just give me your word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50821	I would like to thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50822	Leave her to finish her speech and don't act, no one here in parliament is afraid. Marko Djurisic: Just give me your word. He will, just to finish his coworker.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50823	I would end up winning the election, not on the street and no yellow vests will bring you or the citizens of Serbia for something good. Therefore, the plan, the programme, the proposal, the solutions to the election, let the citizens decide on it in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50824	Marko Djurisic, you have one minute and 49 seconds and that's your time. Marko Djurisic: Give me your word. I'm absolutely trying, but if the colleagues behind you would let you talk. The opposition's emissaries are earning. Yes, but you're all registered, you can tell it to someone else. Then I'll check them out. The opposition's emissaries are earning. Who's yelling? You're all yelling. Not all of you, but there are some of you who don't want to join this circus. (Marco Djurisic: Can I have the word? ) Can be sure, let Aleksandra Jerkov log out, let Marinika Tepic log out, etc., to make room. Don't pretend you don't know how the system works. Come again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50825	Thank you. I have a minute and 49 because I don't have the 15 hours you stole by uniting the debate, but it's more than enough to read the news since 7 September 2017, Kadri Veseni was elected president of Kosovo, the Serb list voted for him. Parliament Vice-President Mr Simic, a representative of the Serbian list, says - we are going to consult with President Aleksandar Vukic the next day to see if we will be in the government. Who is Haradinaj's army here in Serbia? Who is Thaci's army here in Serbia? Did those who elected Haradinaj as prime minister of Kosovo or us who opposed it? You can repeat those lies as many times as you want... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50826	Thank you. Your time has passed. (Marco Djurisic: I have a minute and 49 seconds. ) Minutes and 49, check the system. (Marko Djurisic: After 47 seconds you took away my word!) You'll get a warning, all of us, we can't do this. Don't yell at me. I'm not here in Parliament to let you live. (Alexandra Jerkov: No, we are that you may live. Alexandera Jerkov, don't throw it away, but I didn't ask you anything, nothing. I'm not communicating with you. (Maya Vidinović: You're a teacher? I'm not a teacher, I'm running a session, and you're a picture and an opportunity for your political options. It's very ugly, Mr. Djurisic, at this point, you've attacked Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija and you condemn them for fighting in their own way for survival in that territory. It is easy for you in downtown Belgrade to hold your sermons and to laugh at the MPs of the Serb list in Kosovo and Metohija. You know something about their life? A five-minute break, this really, really, you've outdone yourself. You've outdone yourself today. What did you say there? Who's a friend of Happy's? I'll give everyone a heads-up, all for this behavior. Your task is to create chaos in Serbia. You're not gonna make it. No one here on this side is going to roll in the mud you've prepared yourself. That's to be clear. (Marco Djurisic: This is not the 1990s. No one's afraid of you. One minute, let me talk. That's right, no one can be afraid of me, you've beaten me physically. Yesterday you insulted me brutally. These are your women's emissaries, good for you. Ladies, who laugh at the insult of a woman who's been in politics for 28 years. Shame on you. None of them remembered to apologize here today, none of them. (Marko Djurisic: "Shamed of You" is not an insult? I received warnings of “the shame of you either. ” Don’t point your hand at me. Yes, yes, Marko Djurisic, it's all clear. Marko Djurisic: Don't swear on me. Why are you cursing me? I'm the one who cursed you? Shame on you. That's right, just a lot of excuses for your culture minister. Go ahead. [[after breaks]] Do you want to use your 23 seconds or not? The opposition's emissaries are earning. I didn't ask you, just Mark Djurisic. There's no need for 15 to yell at you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50828	Thank you. For those 23 seconds, it is quite enough to say that it is you who are not taking care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You who have been secretly negotiating with Thaci for the last two years. You who have made an agreement that will keep several tens of thousands of Serbs out of Serbia if a demarcation deal is made. It's the one who doesn't care about the interests of the citizens... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50829	Here, you spent now, you had three seconds more. Does the word want Zoran Zivkovic? (Yes) You have time and you're in the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50830	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50831	A total of seven minutes and 45 seconds, if no one will speak from your group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50832	That's our thing. So, of course, the debate on the budget is the most important after the debate on the government's election. Since we have already had this accident about the government's election, this budget debate is definitely the most important thing in a single country's parliamentary life. President, some are screaming, so I'd like you to protect me. Some roar, as you say, so I'd like to pray, if I may, to hear silence. So we should deal with facts. Any serious debate must be based on facts. The facts are very clear. I asked the finance minister, who escaped again, to tell me how many employees were employed on March 4, 2003? Yesterday and yesterday, he runs away and doesn't say. Why? Because there were more employees than today, according to all relevant data. Not by some statistical matchmaking, but by data. It's obvious evidence, one of the evidence, that the entire budget of the fraud that was made, gave someone small, gave someone big, anyway, is stolen maximum. The fact is, too, that one of the predecessors, Mrs. Tomic, if I'm not mistaken, said in the afternoon session that Hillary Clinton said that all the authorities in the Balkans should be torn down and that now this team standing here is doing it. That's what you said if I'm not mistaken. Just to remind you of a new fact – that Vukic Alexander, the president of your party, was at Hillary Clinton's election headquarters to support her when she was in the election against Tramp. On the question of a serious journalist – and what you need, why did you decide to do so, he said – because I am smart. And that's a fact. Trump won those elections, and that's a fact. The fact is that all those who say that the solution in Serbia is that the opposition boycotts parliament, it is the biggest nonsense. And these two days are proof of that. And that's how it's supposed to go on every day. And those who didn't come today, and from this part, to come tomorrow. And so we fight for Serbia, for Serbs and for all others. The fact is, the basic criterion in the budget ahead of us is fraud and theft. Here, let me tell you, about the budget, what the amendments are, among other things, I signed. Let's say -- that the National Assembly is shrinking 633 million and something for the item -- contracted services, because that's the same item of 34 million, and here's the President of the Republic -- contracted services, that's always, you have it with the Prime Minister -- 18 million, you have it in the Foreign Ministry -- 12 million, you have it in all the ministries, and it comes to him about 15, 16 billion. It's a contract service. It's the dark side. It doesn't exist anywhere. On the CIA website, you can find what it's for, how much money, on the Pentagon website. Only here, in Serbia, there is no BIA site. It's a big secret. It's a terribly big secret, whether to choose tiles like this or one, whether they're fuggan or not, it's not to be known by the Serbian people. Also, according to the amendment we've made, to cut to the office for relations with Russia and China to be reduced to zero, since it serves nothing. I don't know what Tomislav Nikolic is doing, with which knowledge, education, reputation, honor or anything can do such a job. Also, half the funds of special purposes, to be reduced by 14 billion and something billion. It's this money that's being thrown around, allegedly, for new employment, which we've found to be gone, and that's proven by the minister running several times, for the same reasons. The fact is, too, that you are calling us here to co-operate with the enemies of Serbia and Serbs. That's what you're telling us. And even if that is so, as some say, so how is that great reputation of yours in the world, the reputation of your president, the reputation of all of you, not enough to prevent this evil from happening to Serbs? How come Vukic didn't handle it, but with Trampa, who he's been seeing on a regular basis? Or with Putin, who every other day honors him? Or with Angela, who, whether or not she's going to go or not, but she's on our side because of Wolfie. Or with Haradinaj, who was he taking pictures with? I don't. My predecessor doesn't. I don't know any of my heirs who took pictures with him. That's the facts. If you are so powerful, then protect those poor Serbs down in Kosovo, and not make them enter parliament with war criminals first, and enter the government with war criminals, and go to the anniversary of the parties of those same war criminals. You have photos for all of this. And then you're accusing us. Where did you see me with anyone? It's going on foreign embassies. Let me tell you, there are foreign embassies in Belgrade, no domestic embassies. You figure that out once, that's the basis of politics. The facts are that one MP, I invite you to hear me well, quote, one MP said to himself that he was a donkey. That's a fact. It's the head of your parliamentary group. The fact is, he never became a man from a donkey anywhere. And that's a fact, by medicine, by miracles, by the Black River, by anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50833	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50834	I'm kind of fighting for my right to speak. I would do the amendment the same way as my esteemed colleague, but only one sentence will say by amendment, which he well explained and which should consider whether to accept. Let me tell you that you are currently in the coalition, in this alliance for all sorts of things, for the destruction of Serbia mostly, with a party that was at a party the other day at the flag day, in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, where they sneered over the Albanian flag and swore to each other for love and unification. (Marinika Tepic: Say, do not invent. ) One politician from Serbia. I guess you know who's coming to the meetings, who you're with and who you're with here together, who you were with yesterday and who you were standing here with, occasionally, the day before yesterday, when we started. Oh, I'm not doing what you're doing. I'll say what I want. And what you've been up to in these two days, I can't explain. And I won't answer my word again. Here, I promise. (Balsa Bozovic throws. Balsha, if you make your threats come true, maybe never again. Maybe never again. It's not a problem. Let me read to you what your esteemed colleague, as you have encouraged this hatred and hajka and, in general, women who deal with politics, let alone the president of the state parliament, and yet you sit in that parliament, this is what your shadow minister, the distinguished actor, the representative of the civil option in this country, says, because today he's gone crazy clean because of your grinning here, because I complained that you haven't apologized to me. I don't know if he's on drugs, that's still an excuse. He doesn't do drugs, he writes this consciously, and it's a picture of the Alliance for Serbia. (Marinika Tepic: You and others who do drugs. ) "I apologize to the fucks," I find this hard to read, but I read this for women in Serbia who may be thinking at home about politics. "I apologize to the fucks for putting them in the same sentence with Maja Gojkovic. “ It’s from a moment ago. (Marinika Tepic: Do you read tweets? This is your colleague. Here, he's waiting for you there at the protest, in which day you'll take pictures together, hug and kiss. Don't, Marinika Tepic, throw me, as a god please, be a decent woman for a second, one second. (Marinika Tepic: What do you do with Twitter? You're in the congregation. ) It is tossing to you that someone in your society and the nearest environment tells the President of Parliament that he is a fuck-up and does not give up on it, because it is funny to you, entertains you and you have not had the strength to stand up and say, "I'm sorry" or to fence yourself from a receiver, a couple of excellances, a Serbia who is your party colleague. I will continue to read on, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for these of my colleagues. And don't pretend to be a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network anymore, let's hold some stupid conferences where we've all achieved something. What have you achieved? Sergey Trifunovic's hatred for women in Serbia. And leave me to read, for you are not the chairman, and you will not be so soon, because the people will not vote for women who hate other women. Just explain it to me -- he talks to me, the Honorable Minister in the shadow of your alliance -- you're allowed to insult us, you call us scum, traitors, you hit us with neck bars, and then when we reciprocate with the same measure, you act as moralists, and you disgust yourself. Well, then comes the highlight of prosaclysm -- well, it can't be like that, stink, cunt, fuck and shit. (Diana Vukomanovic: What does this look like? And he really can't. We represent decent Serbia, and you represent this scum here. (Radoslav Milojic: Who represents scum? That's your picture. And you've been standing for two days and you can't get up from the mud that you brought into this parliament yesterday, you say -- we're building on this, Sergei Trifunovic we don't need, this is proscration and it's not supposed to behave like this in Serbia. Now you can wave as much as you want, two days have passed, 48 hours of your behavior, you've fueled hate, savagery and target drawing on my head.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50835	Thank you. Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 and Article 106. Number one, I should have gotten the word a little while ago. Number two, my fellow farmer, here they go again... (The opposition's MPs resent banging on parliamentary benches. )......................................................................................................... My fellow farmer, a tortured peasant, has mixed his agenda for agricultural work. Mr. Chairman, there's a Central Insurance Register Act on the agenda. He was talking about the budget. He's mixed up the agenda, probably because he's mixed up the drinks before. I don't know if they served mushrooms with drinks. He was talking about the matchmaking, you were silent. You probably kept your mouth shut because he understands that sport best. That's probably why. He was talking about the CIA website. What does it say on the CIA site? I believe you know that he knows what it says on the CIA site, that it says that during that time, while he was Home Secretary, he was federal, that they killed his prime minister, and that thanks to him, there was a camera shut down. So, Mr. Chairman, in the future a little bit more take care of it, is that winter spray, is that winter works, is that you have to understand fellow farmers, is that others are more loud, and he gets first notice, what you're going to torture a peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50837	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Dusan Petrovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50838	Article 32(3) - on the powers of the Vice President. Since I'm here and mentioned personally, and a huge number of untrues about what's going on in Capco. Not only when Mr. Martinovic spoke, but also some other MPs. The first thing, the fact is that the audit report that we're talking about here has one completely accurate and one thing that's inconclusive that the budget of the town of Sapca has not been damaged by any single dinar. (Boban Birmancevic: Where does that say?) Well, then what's the criminal charges? ) It says in the DRI report, and then there was an unprecedented grip of SNS MP, SNS minister, that the mayor was going to court, and he was released from court. Well, then they attacked the court. Well, where you're going instead of Strasbourg to defend your country and your people. Today, at the expense of the town of Sapca, there were 850 million dinars and the town of Sabac entered major investments. In this year, the town of Sabac was damaged by four million euros and I have put the amendment here, such as 145 cities and municipalities in Serbia, without applying the Law on the financing of local self-government and the Budget System Act damaged by 116m euros. That's a fact. And, the fact is that it has been said more than once here, that the head of the SNS Parliament Club has said for himself that the donkey is recently. I can only say, it's not Serbian nuances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50839	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. No, thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50840	I did tell Shane I was a donkey, but unlike you, I'm not a thief, and you've been a common thief and a criminal, and you haven't changed anything since 2000 until today. The report of the DRI, therefore, states that the town administration of Šapca holds an unregistered 72 apartments and does not charge rent for 72 apartments owned by the town of Sapac, and only for 12 locals, so we are not talking about apartments here, we are talking about 12 restaurants, for 12 locals in 2015, says the DRI town of Sabac made budget revenues less by nine million 421 thousand dinars, the amount of the rent of the business space managed by JP "Stan Sabac". So this is just part of the DRI report that clearly states that Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic and others are robbing the citizens of Sapca.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50841	Thank you. (Dusan Petrovic: Replica. You have no right, enough with this kind of talk and this kind of discussion. (Dusan Petrovic: How, so he told me I was a thief. ) I have the authority in accordance with Article 27. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50842	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment refers to improving the work of organisations responsible for the registration of legal and natural persons. (The opposition's MPs resent banging on parliamentary benches. ) These organizations include the APR, and if these colleagues from across the street stopped banging, maybe they'd hear something about the bill they obviously haven't read, so they've been here all day. Therefore, these organisations and bodies include the APR, the Court of Commerce, the Bar of Lawyers and those organisations and bodies that are competent to keep registers on persons who carry out certain activities. The central register is about to... (Bosko Obradovic: Lower Government. ) It is precisely the central register that will use these data from the database, and therefore the authorities and organisations are obliged to send these data on a daily basis by electronic means to a single database. Since the central register will use these data, it will be required to ensure that all registers and databases of those authorities and organisations holding the register of persons engaged in any activity that is registered. For social security purposes, the central register will assign a unique number to each user. (Bosko Obradović: Thieves. ) This unique number, here's someone yelling at thieves while I'm talking, not interesting, that unique number will be tied to a unique home number of citizens and a tax identification number. In order for all of this to work immaculately, I have just submitted an amendment to promote the work of organisations and bodies that are authorized to run certain registers that I have just spoken of. The central register is an electronic service that was released in 2013. This portal is intended for those bonds that apply to mandatory social security, but is also intended for insured persons, so it is intended, in fact, for citizens who use the portal. It is necessary to organise effective management of this register, pooling databases, creating a legal basis for the Central Register to use data from other databases. It is necessary to reduce the costs of the administration, to establish more effective control of the collection of contributions to compulsory social security. It is therefore necessary to pass a law which will regulate the establishment, bodies and activities of the Central Register, as well as the organisation of compulsory social security, the activity of the authorities and organisations responsible for the registration of legal and natural persons, bodies keeping official records of the personal status of citizens and relations of the Central Register with other legal entities. I also wanted to say that, thanks to the fiscal consolidation measures since 2014, Serbia has been taking the upward path and is recording economic growth. Three years in a row, we have a surplus in the budget. Debts return, investors are attracted and unemployment rates are reduced, and to the extent that today we can say that there is a historic moment when unemployment is the smallest. What is very important, and what he was talking about a few days ago, is that Minister Djordjevic, who is here, has joined the European Union funds. We are the first country to join the RED Fund, although we are not members of the European Union. We have also joined the Social Fund, although we are not a member of the European Union. It has been signed by the Western Balkan countries here in Belgrade and we have received support that we can participate in projects with other countries that are members of the European Union. You see, I was saying, I was explaining the amendment that I submitted, and it wasn't hard, because I read the bill on which I submitted the amendment. I am very sorry that hatred from various social networks has been transferred here to parliament and that here parliamentary representatives of the Alliance for Serbia are trying to implement one torture of each chairman and MP of the SNS by shouting all day long, not participating in the debate, which is false about how they are not allowed to answer the word. It's a completely unspeakable situation, first of all, because of this freak coalition that has its own representatives here, and secondly, because it looks like the thieves here are worried about the budget, so I guess that's why they've been yelling all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50843	Thank you. According to the amendment, Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50844	I answered, Mr. Marinkovic, and just after the amendment of my colleague, Tomic. You didn't give me your word, even though I waited patiently for 40 minutes without any lessons or noise. I'm going to import both amendments. counterpart Tomic, related to the UN General Assembly's agenda and 17 priorities, as those here who are trying to interfere with me from this "sis", as Verica would say, "the Alliance for the Issue of Serbia", do not know what this is about. So it is a very serious thing that would allow Serbia to reduce poverty, to carry out the necessary registration and records of all those in need, and to do so, it is necessary that we have the opportunity to help our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. You have to understand, and it's not any conspiracy theory, there are ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, there are fellow MPs, that this is a very serious moment for the country. What they're yelling, yelling and banging about the benches, it's something that's their right and it doesn't bother me, but it wouldn't be any dispute if it wasn't a synchronised action with those who take away Kosovo and Metohija. You now ask Sanda Raskovic Ivić, any of them here, what the agenda represents, they have no idea. She may know how to register refugees because she put 500,000 dinars in her pocket. The wife was at the head of the Commissioner's office, and she says, "He gave me the OSCE." Of course he's making it up. That's why she joined Bosko Obradovic, who also kidnapped, robbed the Republic of Serbia's budget, laundered money and all that, and this is not an accident, be sure at a time when one of the MPs, counterpart Milo Stojić and basketball players, KK "Partizan" Shipari do not allow them to enter Kosovo and Metohija. I speak by amendment. Our parliamentary group has 19 minutes, and you calm down a bit, Mr. Marinkovic, because I'm going to talk about the registration of legal persons and about you at the end of my presentation. So, as for them and their policies... I don't know why you even... It's your way and you defend yourself and you defend power, but if someone in Serbia should defend themselves, well, you know, they're one handful of those who lost all the moment they fell from power. I remember this Zivkovic and all these guys here. You know, he fell out of power based on an argument by the SRS on thieves, on betrayal, on crime, on abuse, on the dismissal of workers, and now that some of them are disturbing something, to tell us about democratic procedures, that one Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who was the errand boy of Jeremic and Tadic and all of them to be ambassadors, to be in office, tells Verice Radeti that she should not be praised because it would be an insult to her? Well, it's an insult for you to do it, ma'am, because Verica Radeta, unlike you and your family, and we have everything your father said in Franjo Tudjman's office, I guess he didn't know it was being recorded, so Franji said that a wonderful man to whom he admires himself, so he should go to the elections in 1990 in Serbia, and the Serbs are, you know, aggressive, we're Serbians here. So, I recognize myself in that, because I'm from the Woodland. (The opposition's MPs are banging on the benches. So these people are trying to honor us, and I have to get back to it. You know, if once you abuse the position you have, if you rob the budget, as the lady did, by manipulating refugees from Kosovo and Metohija, you'll do it always and then you say -- you know, a Belief Radeta, she talks because she's in agreement with someone and she defends power and stuff. Verica Radeta is an honorary Serbian from Livna, where Ustaše, who was told by Sanda Raskovic Ivić that the legitimate occupation of Republika Srpska in 1941 killed her grandfather, Stevo Thessaloniki and 1600 Serbs in the Lithuanian field. You didn't give me the chance to talk then. So, Mr. Marinkovic, I don't think that you are at all focused at this point not to follow the amendment of your colleague Tomic, nor the amendment to Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, because if you were, too, in the record and registration of natural persons, entrepreneurs, is that right, fellow Kovacevic, and legal persons, how is it possible that at the Higher Enterprise School, where you work, and there you must be paid contributions to compulsory social security, Rasim Ljajic, president of the party where you are still, and I suppose you are presupposing to be the president of that party when these parties resign or when they resign, which he has not done so far, can work as lecturer and co-worker in the follow-up, it stands on the official anti-corruption agency website, and that he receives a salary of 75,000 dinar? Explain to me how a man, Rasim LJajić, can, as a doctor who has not completed a master's degree or a doctoral study, work in a class where you are a lecturer and one of your fellow MPs? These are all questions you don't have an answer to and that's why we're telling you seriously - the SRS doesn't forget anything to anyone. We will talk, to detail, about abuses, about machinations, and above all about the robbery of the state and the people and your indecisiveness to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50845	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) (Marinika Tepic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure! (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica! I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure and on the terms of all rights when you stop yelling. That way you won't do anything. [[Bosko Obradović: Give the right to the replica of Sandy Raskovic Ivić.]] I told you in the beginning, you won't achieve anything. (Dejan Nikolic: We gave up everyone, give the word to Sandi Raskovic Ivić. ) (Goran Ćirić: We gave up everyone, give the word Sandy Raskovic Ivić. You can yell, you can bang, you can punch, you can try to get here maybe. (Balsa Bozovic: We gave up everyone, give the word to Sandi Raskovic Ivić. What are you going to try, I don't know, but when you make sure we can do it normally... (Maya Vidinović: We have given up everyone, give the word to Sandi Raskovic Ivić. ) Please, for the gentlemanly arrangement and for the rules of conduct in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly. (Alexandra Jerkov: We gave up everyone, give the word to Sandy Raskovic Ivić. ) (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) Show it to the citizens and to all of us that we can work normally. I don't know what I deserve and anyone, especially the ministers who are here today to discuss the budget. We're creating a very bad picture of Parliament, but good. The citizens will appreciate it. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50846	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of article 161. 1 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. In Article 1 I would like to propose adding the 2nd position -- this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving the private sector. In that sense, this amendment further defines the subject matter of this Act. The Republic of Serbia has conducted a number of reforms in recent years aimed at modernising the state system of administration. The trend continues. (National MPs Balša Bozovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic, Marinika Tepic, Miroslav Aleksic, Bosko Obradovic, Maja Vidinović approach the chair of the chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50847	I interrupt the work of the National Assembly and suggest that MPs should not approach the chairman in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs not to do this so I do not call upon the Rules of Procedure. Thank you in advance for your understanding and I ask you to ensure that we continue to work for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to listen to anyone. You have seats. You have seats. Parliament is democratic, come in. I'm taking a break and I'm just telling you that according to the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to approach. Thank you. The break is 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50848	The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić, a replica to the presentation of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50849	Thank you, Madam President. I've been waiting for this replica for a really long time. It's really very difficult for me personally to listen to this amount of insult from my colleagues, I have to call them that, because part of this parliament, from the SRS, is not only on my account, but also on my late father's account. It's not just about me, it's about all the women here who can be insulted and whose parents, fathers and mothers can be dragged through the mud and through the lie. These two SRS ladies, I have to refer to Natasa Jovanovic, because for her I received a replica, the worst words blackened my late father, who, as I have already said, was also an icon of the Krajina Serbs and not only the Krajina Serbs. My father was a man of peace, a man of agreement. I am also convinced that many people today, including those who belong to the SNS, believe that my father, not others, and not Milosevic, and those who blew under his wings, which was Seselj, would be in their seats today, would be in Krajina, and there would be no such pain, disaster and bloodshed. One more thing to say, here my father, in Mrs Jovanovic's discourse, is showing up as a traitor, as an associate of Croatians and Croatian services. However, I would recommend a book to them from here... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50850	Time. Thank you. Thank you. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Oh, you don't? ) Not that I don't, I've been consulting with my esteemed colleagues to show how someone really needs to get a replica, and how you don't have solidarity when someone's father is insulted, and he's not one of you, and he's not an insult to a woman in this House, and he's not one of you. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Now let's move on, because it's really been enough. Yeah, on Twitter, it's your picture, that you have an excuse for the vomit that's being brought to my account, I'll do it again, for my account, because I'm being targeted at the forehead, which is on my account for morbid charges, where everyone on the street after what's been taken out on my account can come up to me and do whatever they want, because of the hickey you've been leading two days against me. (Marinika Tepic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No Rules of Procedure, no more chaos in this House. If you're into chaos, you're wrong about the parliament building. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Is John Palalic here? Does anyone else who has time to argue want to discuss it? (Bosko Obradović: Yes. I just wanted to make sure you had time to discuss it. Zoran Zivkovic, the first has time from the reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50851	I'm completely surprised by your finding that you're threatened and I call upon all the competent services, whether it's the police, the secret service, or some other speciality, to help you, because no new victim, no matter what, would be pleasant among us. But I'm afraid you've got the wrong idea and you're making a circus about nothing again. And I'm sure your health is in a good place, and your safety is fully protected. As far as the budget is concerned, the budget is thiefly, deceitful, progressive.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50852	This isn't according to the amendment, dear colleague. We'll have a session the way it was supposed to be from the beginning. This isn't according to the amendment. Yeah, of course I'm healthy. Don't spoil the microphone. You've lasted 20 seconds to do what needs to be done. The First Amendment was submitted by the Council of Doctors. Mihailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50853	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. I feel uncomfortable with my microphone on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50854	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50855	Please, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, I would like to say that at this point, the most important thing for the 2019 budget is to ensure price and financial stability. I think you've done it with this budget. I will analyse what is most important, and that is the macroeconomic policy envisaged for 2019. What is new, what you have technically done in this budget, is that you have implemented the articulation of GDP and I thank you on behalf of all of us MPs, because GDP shows everything, although I will also talk afterwards about replacing that GDP with a gross national product. You're here to realize that personal consumption will be the same. So we compare the budget in 2018 and 2019, that personal consumption, which represents one sum in GDP, will be the same, that state spending with 0.6 percentage points in 2019 will be 0.3 percentage points, which means that state spending will be less. What does that mean at the same time? That those who said this budget was electoral... (Bosko Obradovic: By amendment. Please. Please, keep your voice down. By amendment, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50856	I'm asking Ambassador Jokic to speak to me who runs this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50857	I'm sorry. Please allow me to concentrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50858	Discard the pitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50859	Please. So, state spending is reduced, not taking into account qualifications or the marking that the budget is electoral. I mean, that's funny. Furthermore, GDP deflator, beware, the very important indicator, it was 2.4, you predict in 2019 3.3, which is very important and moves within those limits 3 plus minus 1.5%. Furthermore, the home account balance, i.e. the current state account, and that's the difference between imports and exports, that was 5.2 index points, now it's going to be minus 5 points, but that minus we're covering, what you wrote well with direct investments, which we're going to do in 2019, because that's going to be 5.7 percentage points. Where you are too, like this, modest and conservative, we have a fiscal score plus 0.6 in 2018, is that right, and you predict minus 0.5 in 2019. So, some considering it won't be, but I think the result will be much better in 2019. What I'm saying is that GDP is an American category invented for developing countries to protect multinational companies. We and other countries, meaning out of America, must fight to show our business in gross national income, because GDP also contains what is produced in Serbia and does not stay in Serbia. That's why we need to concentrate on gross national income. In order to achieve this, we must link all our trade operations, all our trade and economic relations with the countries in the environment, with countries in Europe and the world to the national currency. It's a dollar, I said it once, now I'm going to do it again, the greatest evil that's ever happened to the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50860	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50861	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50862	You've wasted your time, MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50863	Well, when I'll have enough time to say it. I always don't have time. I mean, really. Here, I didn't say half what I was thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50864	Ambassador, I'd like to ask you not to yell at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50865	No, far away. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50866	Thank you. Of the reported Bosko Obradovic, there is time for the amendment, and I hope you have read the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50867	I use the time of the parliamentary group, to point out, and I am absolutely against this amendment by my colleague Jokic. I think this amendment is just talking about that if we couldn't make sure that the ruling majority is telling the truth by now, I don't know how to take your word for it. This is where you promised to pass the law on the origin of the property, so you didn't bring it. You promised here in time that public executioners would make me not know what quality in our judicial system, and public perpetrators are robbing Serbian citizens. Here, in your time, you were talking about helping domestic economy and agriculture, and you're helping only foreign companies and foreign banks. Banks in Serbia are tearing the skin off the back of Serbian citizens. You're even going to sell out our natural and economic wealth. You sold the PKK, you sold RTB Bor, you sold it to Belgrade Airport. Who can trust you after all this? Everything you said and promised before the election, you lied. Finally, today, news has also been released that Tony Blair has launched a special competition in Belgrade for two advisers, because he needs help consulting the president of Serbia and the president of the state, which is proof that Tony Blair is still in the position of adviser Alexander Vukic, so we are asking the Minister of Finance – is Tony Blair funding from the budget and from which items or does Tony Blair finance himself in some other way and how much he pays Tony Blair as a consultant? Does one of the states in the world take as advisor the war criminal who bombed him, to give me another example of such a country that did something like that? To point out to me and answer the question – why haven't you left the Government of Ramush Haradinaj yet? Why are SNS MPs sitting in that government, sitting in that assembly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50868	I'd like to ask you about the amendment, and this is not in line with the proposed amendment. I think you've mixed up the agenda points. Thank you. The MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. (Mihailo Jokic: Replica. He didn't mention you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50869	Thank you, President Gojkovic. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, I will return to the topic of today's agenda, which is a debate on the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Act concerning basic provisions. My amendment is heading towards improving the conditions of the insured persons. I can tell you, although this Central Register Act was passed in 2010, the Central Register of 2013 began its work. In practice, however, there were indeed many difficulties, numerous concerns and hence the need for this new law, to simply remove all the difficulties that existed in practice. The adoption of a new Central Register Act is of multiple importance for overcoming a number of problems accompanied by a system of collection of social security contributions, since the control of the collection of contributions was not sufficiently effective. I'm someone who comes from the city of Belgrade and I can tell you about the collection of social contributions, as it was during the previous government. In 2013, when the SNS assumed responsibility for the exercise of power in the city of Belgrade, the former mayor of Belgrade left us 1.2 billion euros in debt. The structure of the debt was such that the previous mayor, that perjanica and the leader of the opposition, was also obliged to his children, to the maternity, to pregnant women in the capital. The structure of Belgrade's debt during Dragan Gilas was such that it amounted to 662m euros for the interest loan all of Belgraders will pay by 2036.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50870	Time. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50871	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, the establishment and management of a central database where different databases for the same user groups in the area of social security could be pooled, as soon as possible, as reasons for the adoption of the proposed law. In order to make the connection and pooling of the conduct of various types of records more accessible to users and facilitate the execution of public services, there is a need for the introduction of an electronic administration, i.e. computerisation of the existing so-called “public service”. a system paper aimed at introducing new management styles and setting out strategies in the performance of operations and providing important information. The development of modern information and communication technologies has led to different ideas in the application of new technological achievements aimed at more organised lives of users of different administrative services. It turns out that ideas, ideas and plans, in one word business of different entities with databases, are unimaginable without information and communication technologies. Developed countries have long since moved to the era of electronic business and thus helped their citizens in many ways. Thanks to the responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia, which takes care of the monitoring and implementation of new technologies and world trends, we have come to a time when the implementation of electronic administrations in order to make public services more efficient and secure, and all with the aim of helping citizens and economic operators do various administrative work. In voting day, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50872	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50873	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers with associates, the proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance is a continuation of the government's policy on the digitisation of public administration. The Serbian government is making great efforts in the field of digitisation, in particular the digitisation of public administration. Serbia's goal is to get as economical, transparent and efficient public administration as possible, and the means to achieve that goal is modern and accessible to all available electronic administrations. New technologies make life easier for citizens, speed up procedures, but also facilitate jobs and employees in the institutions of the Republic, the province, cities and municipalities. Today we have a situation where companies open in 24 hours, building licenses get much faster, it's possible to use an electronic signature, an electronic seal. The Law of Electronic Administration has also been passed. And this proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security is a great step on this road. The central register is an electronic database because the electronic service based on modern IT technologies, and this bill provides a legal basis for connecting with other registers to allow faster and more efficient work. I call on all my colleagues to support this proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50874	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50875	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, I have submitted this amendment to the first member of the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security. My colleagues have already mentioned that the purpose of adopting this law is to more effectively control the collection of social security contributions, then, to reduce the costs of the administration and to function more effectively in the social security system, such as connecting this social security register with the Tax Administration. I would like to remind you of something that our fellow citizens know and surely MPs, there was a service in this country that called the Social Accounting Service or the SDK. At the time she functioned, she could not have made any payment, whether personal income, fee, copyright fee, any payment could not have been made without payment of contributions under the law of the Serbian state. But, of course, it may not have worked properly, but it was very important, but in 2003, at the time those privatisations started, problems arose. It was canceled because probably that part of the money was going into someone else's hands. That's why those problems arose that people had unpaid retirement, unpaid health contributions, so they needed to connect the retirement internship, so they couldn't go into the review. One system was collapsed in the previous DOS regime. Now this was established on one more electronic and digitalized...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50876	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by Member Ana Čaapić. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50877	I thank the chairman. We are today discussing the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, an excellent legal solution that involves a single database of insurance, insured persons and the records of contributors. Therefore, the bill provides for a database that is compatible with the Tax Administration, with the Business Registers Agency, with the National Employment Service, with the PIO Fund and with the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The legal solution will fully bring the full effects of the combined collection, and I will remind you, the united payment is the best reform effort by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, which has been in place since 1 January 2014 and has just contributed to the fantastic results in the collection of contributions. That is why 35 billion dinars of the Pension Fund are foreseen in 2019 higher than in 2012. These are significantly large funds, since we never had a more stable exchange rate and never a lower inflation rate. We will fully improve the position of our pensioners and in the next period. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, this legal solution establishes the control function of our state over money flows and the accounting and paid taxes and contributions, which our country lost in 2003 when the former regime shut down the Office for Accounting and Payment, which was the best organised institution in our country, the institution that protected the interests of citizens and which completely controlled cash flows. Then, since 2003, the Republic of Serbia has been on the verge of robbing privatisation, where out of 3,017 state-owned enterprises, 2,000 companies have completely stopped working, and thousands are on the verge of existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50878	Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, we are discussing this mandatory social security register, but I was really surprised that none of my fellow MPs gave an answer and from where the Social Security Fund is being filled, but they do know that they say that we are robbing citizens by taxes and excise duties. Excises on motor fuels have not been increased since 2011 and fuel is cheaper today than it was in 2011 in nominal terms. So the problem is, it seems to me, that now that every dinar of taxes, excises, other fiscal burdens is coming back to the citizens in one way or another, no one is going to tell a fellow MPs of the former regime that taxes and contributions receive salaries in health care, receive salaries in education, receive salaries in the police, receive salaries in the military, build highways, create schools, and the biggest problem that citizens can see today is every dinar where it's spent. That's why it's so much resistance. That's why there's a scene like it was in France, because unlike the former regime where money is being spent today, it doesn't end up on the Salems or on the Virgin Islands. There's no need to wear...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50880	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Ana Karadzic submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50881	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Insurance Insurance of Mandatory Social Security, because I want to highlight the importance of digitisation as one of the priorities that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting. So, it is important for the government to focus citizens and that the system is just facing citizens and digitisation is a way to achieve it. I heard almost 500,000 hours of people waiting in line a year. In this way it will be automatically prevented, both money and time will be saved. The central register also allows digitisation to exchange data between the Ministry of Finance, the PIO Fund, health insurance, tax administrations etc. These days we are talking about the budget and how we have a social aspect besides development, which is an increase in wages and pensions and a reduction in unemployment. There is also information that in 2013 we had 25% more than 25% of unemployed people. Today it's about 11.5 percent. The digitalization is this and this direction the government is moving is to create a transparent system, where everyone will be able to see where money is being invested, how money is being spent. In this way, we have made it possible for new investors to arrive, to create new factories, new jobs, and in this way we will also have these social aspects of the realised social aspect of the budget, meaning pay increases, pension increases and a reduction of unemployment. In voting day, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50882	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Jevtic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50883	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the 2019 Vrnjak Banja municipality budget, as well as the Republic of Serbia's budget is a development budget, because it is based on projects and investments. Since it is a Vranjska spa and it is a tourist resort, more investment is needed, of course, in the city's infrastructure, primarily because of the large inflow of guests, where the number of guests present every day is increasing and doubled compared to the population. I expect, of course, as has been the support of the government and its resolution ministries, to support quality projects that have been carried out and, of course, done, to help if it is possible for the municipality, since we have done the first part of the pool installation, that is to say, invest in the emergency centre for the water polo centre, which will help, that is, have a major impact on the development of sports in Serbia. Since there are such capital projects, please, yes, of course, help bring an end to this water polo center, so that our water polo team can train our golden dolphins. Of course, I want to thank you and ask you that if you are able at some point to run a transfer center analysis from these higher levels to lower levels, because Vranjacka Banja is currently at a very low level as regards these transfer funds, that is, at an annual level, about 89 million dinars. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50884	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. You're out of time, you're out of time, you're out of time, you're out of time, you're out of time, you're out of time, you're out of (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50885	I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50886	You've lasted a long time to be nice. There's nothing wrong with the Rules of Procedure. (Marco Djurisic: You can't know that. Mr. Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50887	Respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, the adoption of a law on the central register of compulsory social security is of multiple importance for overcoming a number of problems followed by a system of collection, contributions and social security. It will therefore make the collection control even more efficient. Since the full technical establishment of the Central Register will establish regular monthly analyses and the alignment of data from the Central Bond Register, contributions payments. Employers and insurance undertakings with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security will be informed of the tax administration, as all observed labour irregularities will continue to act. A high level of collection of social security contributions can certainly be achieved and the level of enforcement of legal obligations can be improved. Monthly reports at the insurance level are viewed in providing the necessary data, in order to identify unwitting employers much faster, and avoid situations where contributions are not charged, thus protecting workers and their labour rights. I think this is a great law for working people in this country. I ask my esteemed and esteemed colleagues to support this law in the voting day, of course, if they have the strength and the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50888	The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50889	Dear Presidents, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the reason for the adoption of the law on the central register of compulsory social security are contained in the need to organise an effective form for the performance of jobs, the establishment and management of a central database where different databases for the same user groups in the area of social security will be united. The introduction of a central bond database, social security contributions, employers and insurance companies and, among other things, the need to ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reduction of administrative costs, more efficient functioning of the social security system. The amendment I have proposed foresees that Article 1. The proposal for this law adds Article 2 which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of social protection institutions. Social protection is an activity that provides for a certain degree of social security for every person and meets the different needs of the social protection of citizens and their families, so social protection institutions are also set up with the aim of achieving rights and providing services in the field of social protection, as well as to carry out development advisory, research and other professional activities in social protection and other established interests. It is extremely important that the proposal for this law as far as possible affects their effectiveness. Since social protection institutions are established and operate as institutions for children and young people, or as institutions for adults and older users, i.e. serve to achieve the right and provide services in the field of social protection for all generations from the youngest to the oldest, their greater efficiency in the work is extremely important, since we will only manage to meet the needs of their users with maximum efficiency in social protection institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50890	Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50891	I thank the esteemed president. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, have been listening for days to discuss the most important law on our country's budget. For days we have been listening to discussions of our opposition colleagues, individual opposition and I realized that they have become an opposition not only to the authorities and ruling coalitions, they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50892	MPs, be nice, just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50893	One of the reform laws that is very important for the budget from a set of financial laws and respected presidents, it also provides positive assessments of the IMF, the EC, the World Bank. Because, following the difficult reforms of economic and fiscal consolidation, I have come to Marko-economic stability and am proud to be an SNS MP, I am proud of the government of the Republic of Serbia because the results are visible. Economic growth is 4.5%, public debt is shrinking, inflation 2.3%, surplus instead of deficits in the budget, reduced unemployment, and we've heard that it's not accurate, 11.9% is reduced unemployment. We hired 370,000 people. Our labour prices are up, our tourism is up, our citizens' living standards are better. We've increased wages, pensions. I do not expect the opposition MPs to love the government of the Republic of Serbia, to love President Aleksandr Vukic, but I expect them to love our country Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50894	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50895	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, indeed the component of social equality, social justice is a very important element that is incorporated into this law, but I think that its emphasis in the general provisions and acceptance of this amendment can only bring quality in the application of this law, as well as in the adoption of future sublegal acts that should follow the realization of all this. In fact, the question of the social equality of all citizens through the creation of the Central Register is very clearly profiled by the interest of each of us that each according to its incomes, evenly, in good time, be burdened, paid taxes and contributions to the state which is obliged to give, because only by absolute coverage of all the users who need to be obliged and accompanied by whether they respect their obligations, the burden of giving can be fairly distributed, proportionate to the revenues that citizens have. Expansion of the scope and monitoring of the timely one will simply ensure that the tax obligations, the social benefits that are all required through the revenues that we have to pay to the state, are reduced, that we are personally less burdened, and that the burden is evenly divided. What's the problem, the problem is that we have this system that we once had very well worked out, not like this, in electronic form, as fast and efficient as this one should be, we've had, unfortunately, after 18 years of destroying that system, we're starting again from the beginning, but better ever than ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50896	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50897	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the adoption of this reform law, we are building a sound foundation for society's progress and for increasing living standards. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to introduce a central bond database, social security contributions, employers and insurance companies. The aim of the law is to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. The basic purpose and reason is to regulate the exchange of data with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security established between the Central Register and the Tax Administration, which is fully realised by establishing a uniform collection of taxes and deductions. As the Central Register was, above all, an electronically managed database and an electronic service based on IT technologies, it was also necessary to provide a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow for more effective and more effective exercise of rights and respect for requests for electronic exchange of data between state authorities, i.e. the development of e-government, and all in order to increase efficiency, both the Central Register and other bodies and users' organisations of data from the Central Register. Since the Central Register is a unique database for all insurance and insurance companies, this law assumes competences in the management of the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and employed persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50898	Dear MPs, just to let you know that Serbia's Radio-Television memo that in a few minutes they will no longer be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament over the commitments of the European handball match for women. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50899	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. In Article 1 The draft law shall be governed by the following: establishment, bodies and activities of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, the relationship between the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance and the Obligatory Social Insurance Authority responsible for public revenue affairs, bodies and organisations responsible for the registration of legal and natural persons, bodies keeping official records and registers on the personal status of citizens and data which are relevant to payment obligations, the central register of compulsory social security with other legal entities, as well as other issues of importance for the work of the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security should, among other things, ensure more effective control of the collection of social security contributions, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50900	Ambassador Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) He has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment... I'm sorry, the word is Marian Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50901	No, I'm next. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on my amendment. So love for food is the most honest love. You get gold and diamonds when you run out of food and water. Farmers, no matter what food they produce and how they keep people alive, have become the poorest layer of citizens. I think it's a debt for PIO and a debt for farmers' health insurance somewhere around 200 billion, along with interest. I ask Mr. Minister to listen to this because a solution must be found for farmers' debts amounting to over 200 billion and approaching two billion euros. I think we should talk and not punish those who have already paid it regularly and we should discuss that for a certain percentage of the debt we sell to farmers that debt, say, to settle it for five to 10% of the obligations they owe, and interest, and that in such a way, we earn, and on the other hand we solve farmers' debts, that they too can verify health books and can be taken care of, both in a pension way and in a way that they will be health insurance. So, I suggest that farmers who received significantly more funding this year, this one where he objected in the folk costume, which plays host, says that 41 and a half billion is small, and when he received from Dusan Petrovic the money, 19 billion was a lot, and the same course of the euro was. So, we thank that we have received seven billion and 600 more as farmers, but we ask the Ministry of Finance to consider that the debts of farmers who for PIO and health insurance amount to over 200 billion in a certain way are compensated, or by subsidies, or are sold to them by five percent of the real debt, and in such a way we will solve their problem, and show those who have so far paid PIO insurance not to punish them, because the amount of interest is far greater than the amount of debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50902	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Stanija Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50903	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Serbian citizens, that the country is building, working and progressing talks and a set of laws and draft budgets that are ahead of us and on the agenda. The drop in unemployment now stands at 11.3%, which is the government's priority, pay increases and pensions. We'll get all this through the adoption of the 2019 budget, and all thanks to our president, Alexander Vukic, we make and open factories, build roads. The peace policy he is leading, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, which is difficult and complex, is why our president is doing everything he can to avoid jeopardising peace and stability in those areas. For 15 days now, we have been on the kiM peaceful path to combat terror from Albanian authorities who have introduced 100% fees on Serbian goods. In the 21st century, someone wants to deny us the fundamental right, the right to life, food, water, the right to treatment, the right to learn exactly the existence of those areas of Kosovo and Metohija. They won't destroy us, bravely and peacefully respond to these measures, our students, our mothers, women coming out and showing a desire to survive on our hearths. Thanks to Serbia's economic strength, we are stronger and unique in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50904	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here's a colleague of richinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50905	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the main purpose of this bill is to regulate the exchange of data on the payment of contributions to compulsory social security established between the central register and the tax administration, which is fully realised by establishing a uniform collection of taxes and deductions. This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving the protection of agricultural insurance companies. I would take the opportunity to look at the programme to support the implementation of a measure of equal regional development through the participation of the state in the economic and financial incentives of the agricultural and agricultural cooperative in 2018 in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Based on this programme, a public competition has been launched, and the programme aims to systematically improve the business of cooperatives, as well as the quality of life in rural areas, through a more balanced distribution of income and an increase in economic opportunities as part of balanced regional development. Realisation of the programme improves the cooperative system and increases competitiveness, and a comprehensive aspect of social and social change in which cooperatives are a significant actor. From the territory of the town of Leskovec, nine agricultural and agricultural cooperatives were provided with a public application contest with proper documentation, and grants under the programme were granted for four cooperatives, namely the agricultural cooperative “Professionalac SMS” Donja Trnjane, the second, agricultural cooperative “Kumovi Plus” Vučje, the third, the agricultural cooperative “Petrović” Gornja Krajince and the fourth, the agricultural cooperative “Gradac-Future” Gradasnica. According to the programme, the total appropriations for four cooperatives from the territory of the town of Leskovci for 2018 amount to 36.4 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50906	Thank you, dear colleague Bogatinovic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50907	Thank you, Chairman. The essence of this law is to care for the poor. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development aims to eradicate poverty and direct society towards sustainable inclusive development. Serbia adopted the agenda and committed itself to achieving these goals. The draft law on the social register of compulsory social security is a continuation of the implementation of this agenda, but this is also a reform law benefiting citizens, as the administration will be faster and more efficient. Therefore, the objective of this law is greater transparency, more effective control of the payment of social benefits, but also better cross-sectoral coordination of institutions. The aim of this law is a high level of payment of contributions to compulsory social security, as well as to improve the level of enforcement of legal obligations. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia succeeded during the term of office of Aleksandar Vukic and now Ana Brnabic is able to reduce the unemployment rate by reform processes at the same time, but also increase the number of employment. The amendment I submitted to this bill further defines the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50908	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jovica Jevtic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50909	The Honored Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of Parliament, on Article 1 of the proposed Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, I am submitting an amendment in the light of the addition of Article 2 which more precisely defines the link between the proposed legal solution and the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, Article 1. The draft law provides for an area governed by law, which is primarily the establishment, bodies, activity of the Central Register, as well as its relationship with other bodies in the social security system. The adoption of this law will provide a unique database on mandatory social insurance, insurance and insurance insurance obligations, where data are entered, stored and updated on an electronic daily basis. As the Central Register was primarily an electronically managed database and an electronic service based on IT technologies, it was necessary to provide a legal basis for connecting with other registers and records in the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow for more effective and more effective exercise of rights and respect for requests for electronic exchange of data between national authorities, i.e. the development of electronic administrations, and all in order to increase the efficiency of both the Central Register and other bodies and organisations, users of data from the Central Register. The basic purpose and reason is to regulate the exchange of data with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security established between the Central Register and the Tax Administration, which is fully realised by establishing a uniform collection of taxes and deductions. Responsible social policy, and a legal solution to the policy is certainly proposed, affects the even development of the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social life, so the submission of amendments is a kind of support for this idea and I have already stressed that in all legislative proposals we must support the idea of a balanced development of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50910	Thank you, colleague Yevtić. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50911	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to further point to the importance of passing this law. This amendment puts the accent first and foremost on the achievement of social equality. The adoption of the law will allow for more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and overall more efficient functioning of the social security system. The aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Alexander Vukic is for Serbia to be a modern country. This is certainly one of the laws that will contribute to Serbia being a more modern country, because it is primarily focused on achieving better services for all citizens of Serbia. The achievement of social equality will also be affected by the 2019 budget, as the 2019 budget provides for 33 billion more funding compared to 2018 for public sector salary increases, so that we will have a 7-12% salary increase, with the largest salary increase in Serbia being 12% by nurses and technicians, 10% by doctors, 9% by social protection institutions, education, military, police, 7% by other budget users. Also, the achievement of social equality in Serbia will also be affected by an increase in the minimum labour price, i.e. the increase in minimum earnings in Serbia as of 1 January, but certainly the achievement of social equality will also be affected by the pension increase, as well as the one-time assistance our pensioners received in the previous days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50912	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50913	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can speak freely of the citizens of Serbia, because in a delayed transmission or in a video of those interested in this discussion, they will have the opportunity to hear what we said when part of the opposition that was making the circus here today came out of the hall. I want to say that we, SNS MPs, and part of the opposition left here, have shown that for us, the measure of patriotism is how our citizens live, what is the situation in our national register and what we can praise is a better standard for our pensioners and our employees in the public sector, but of course those people who work in the private sector. In Serbia, the situation is getting better. Salaries and pensions are growing on real foundations, the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are, I can say, determinedly and strongly committed to solving the problems and most endangered layers of our society, and I believe that in the coming year, there is space and there will be, if the economic and economic growth and the situation in society and finance permits, to help even more, perhaps even more equally, to those people who have lower incomes than twenty thousand dinars, so that their level and standard of life as much as we try to bring people and the standard of people living better than they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50914	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50915	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have a very high-quality bill ahead of us. I have made an amendment to Article 1 on a member with regard to the general provisions in this law, precisely in order to strengthen the efforts of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this assembly majority in the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, and this good law is heading in that direction. If that's the case, I'll tell you from a simple example. We now have major problems with our fellow citizens who have been dealing with some private business in the 1990s. So, from 1990 to 1994, all the documents concerning their social contributions, or taxes, were made in the former PDO, or Social Accounting Service. Since 1994, it has already been taken over by the tax administration and there is no problem, these data exist. But for all those people who had some of their own private ones by 1994, at the time they were mostly S.T.E.L.D. Or maybe some pharmacies, for the most part, it's a problem to find documentation and to realize, here most of them are now arriving 65 years old or 40 years old and trying to make their pensions, not able to do so. The social accounting service that was destroyed and shut down in 2000 doesn't exist, and the vault, I checked in the vault, there's no archive from that period. In the IRS, there is no such thing again, because the IRS was not obliged to have such documentation. In this way, we will confirm exactly what we are taking care of economic and sustainable development, that we are thinking about the future. So no one in the future, thanks to such measures and laws, will have these problems that our fellow citizens have at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50916	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50917	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, this law and amendment will contribute to better control of social security contributions, which will reflect the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. A former regime decorated in Dragan Gilas, known as the Điki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the Wolf, Sashi Jankovic, called Sala Prangi, did not take care of social security and the central register, because during their regime, 575,000 were left without work, this is the exact data, workers on various grounds, but that is why Mr Gilas installed 500 million with his private companies. Dear Vice President, Jeremic has been stuttering at a court in New York these days caught in tampering with white-world thieves Patrick Ho and Sheik Tidian Gadian. It is next to him and Sasa Jankovic, Sale Prangi, who is diving crocodile tears these days due to Pristina's debacle for admission to Interpol. So many sorrows were not shown by representatives of the patrons of the so-called Kosovo's independence. Dear Ministers, they are not aimed at improving social security and the central register, but through the Satanization of the president of the Republic of Serbia, his brother, his son and parents, to diminish the role and personality of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, while making superhuman efforts to seek a lasting compromise and sustainable solution for our Serbian province. They forget one thing, the more muddy they get, the more they spread lies about him, the more they satanize him and his family, the stronger he gets, the stronger he gets, the tighter he gets, the harder he gets from the rock, the more he's unbreakable. You know why? Because through it, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are transposing their energy for the future of our children and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50918	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50919	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, the amendment I have submitted, in Article 1. The bill adds Article 2 which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to monetary policy. Article 1 The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, which bears the title - general provisions, lists the areas to which this law applies and which regulates this law the establishment of bodies of the central register as well as its relationship with mandatory social security organisations, public income business bodies and other organisations responsible for the registration of legal and natural persons, bodies keeping official records and registers on the personal status of citizens. Liabilities with institutions holding registers on data that are relevant to taxpayers, contributions payments, as well as relations with other legal entities. This law, one in the set of laws that we are now passing, and above all, the 2019 Budget Law will contribute to the further development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the successful conduct of monetary policy. Along with other laws that are on the agenda of this session, the Republic of Serbia is coming out of the process of consolidation of the fiscal and monetary system, which allowed the course of the dinar in 2018 to be stable with controlled and minimal inflation, and what will, above all, also be possible in 2019. How significant this is for the entire economic and social development of the country as well as for the better life of citizens, those who remember what it was when the dinar course was unstable with hyperinflation that destroyed economic operators and brought a vast majority of citizens to the brink of poverty. Monetary and fiscal policy with reform of the political and economic system are SNS programme tasks headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. From all this, I call on the Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50920	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Janošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50921	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, basically the register of compulsory social security is the base of the obligor, insurance, employers, which is, of course, logical, but to this formation, this developed register, we will have an absolute overview of the collection of social security contributions. The most important thing is that we have a constant data exchange, an adequate, true exchange between the tax administration and the central register. The central registry database is relying heavily on information technologies. I'm glad you recognized that in many steps earlier when you formed and introduced the electronic administration. Since October 2018, what I would like to stress is developed and released in the application of info lines when citizens of Serbia contacting those users and people working on these info lines can come up with the data that this documentation is required to provide in order to enable the treatment of children or adults abroad, to see how far this process has arrived as well as when only a solution will come. The Republican Health Insurance Fund in Zrenjanin is doing absolutely well with its facilities in Novi Crnja, Novi Becej, Žitište and Secnje. The Republic Health Insurance Fund is overbooked for days when users come, that is, in part of the day when they come to verify their instructions for working treatment outside the parent branch. I am pleased that the improved state of kindness, the efficiency of the work of people who allow us to verify these instructions and on health care, is a major step in the city of Zrenjanin and the hospital of Djordje Jovanovic, equipped with an angisal, equipped with x-rays. This facility has been accredited, 100 million dinars have been invested in the hospital of Djordje Jovanovic, and it is very important for me to say that what we lack is a magnetic resonance so that we do not send patients to diagnostics outside the parent branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50922	Thank you very much. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50923	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the First Article of the Bill, which further defines the subject of this law, where I particularly point to the view of the problem of improving medical institutions. The draft law on the central register of compulsory social security responds to the need to create a united updated and electronic register of data on the population of the Republic of Serbia. In that respect, the provisions of Article 1 shall apply. The bill provides for the establishment of a central register of the population, i.e. the establishment of a management system of use, as well as other issues of importance for establishing and keeping the central register of the population of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to organise an efficient form for the operation of operations, the establishment and management of a central database in which different databases will be brought together for the same user groups in the area of social security. This is all part of a description of the responsible performance of President Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the management of the SNS programme. It is just as efficient, transparent action that creates conditions for the development of the Republic of Serbia. The bill, as well as others on the agenda, fits into the environment in which Serbia is located, and such an act, a stable budget, works exclusively in the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which allow improvement in basic areas for better quality of life, which are primarily education and healthcare. The total budget of the Ministry of Health for 2019 is thus 18,712,691,000 dinars. The draft budget of the Ministry of Health for 2019 is by 7.6% compared to the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50924	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50925	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, the proposed amendment adds the position of Article 2 of the proposed Law on the Central Social Insurance Register and further defines the incentive for the development of the Republic of Serbia and financial stability. The aim of the law is to ensure the control of the collection of social security contributions, to reduce the costs of the administration, to achieve a more efficient functioning of the social security system. The exchange of data with regard to the payment of contributions to compulsory social security, established between the Central Register and the Tax Administration and realised by establishing a uniform collection of taxes and contributions, achieves better control and certainly a high level of payment of contributions to compulsory social security and improves the level of enforcement of legal obligations. This is another one of a set of laws that will improve not only the quality of life of citizens, but also security and stability. A few days ago, we heard that Serbia recorded a historic unemployment minimum of 11.3%. What does that mean? This shows that the government headed by President Vukic leads a responsible policy, a policy that leads to economic growth and economic progress, a policy that brings investors to Serbia to open factories and create new jobs. Every employee means that one family will live financially stable, with guaranteed social protection, i.e. material security and health care, and each new investor will contribute to the greater development of our country. 370,000 people were employed more than in 2014. That's a great result and I congratulate you on that. We are today continuing reforms that will contribute to strengthening the economy and economic growth, and what is also very important is raising our country's reputation in the world as a stable country, suitable for investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50926	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50927	I have already spoken in the Assembly many times about a problem that plagues 530 refugee and other families, whose apartments were built by the Italian government. It is known that there are thousands of housing units in Serbia built by international organisations, but unfortunately only these 530 families do not have the right to buy their apartments. This was envisioned by the 2003 memo of the government of Serbia and the Government of Italy. However, during Minister Velimir Ilic's 2006 ransom option was abolished and these 530 families were discriminated against for a full 10 years. So it's 530 families in seven local self-governments. It's Nis, Valjevo, King, Chachak, Kragujevac, Pancheva and Stara Paz. For years now, I've been trying to help these families solve this issue, correct injustice against them. We've had more meetings in the departments. I also had a meeting with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and her advisor. I also appeal once again to the Prime Minister's office, to the competent Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure to put the issue on the agenda, to finally allow these families to buy their housing units. It is unacceptable that among thousands of refugee families there is one category that does not have that right. I hope that we will finally resolve this issue in the coming period and that all refugee families whose apartments and other housing units have been built by means of international organisations are evened out in their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50928	Thank you, colleague Linta. National MP Natasa St Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50929	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, yesterday and today we saw in action how, according to the Serbian people, success is not forgiven, and success is evident and undeniable. We are proud of great statesman Aleksandar Vukic, who returns his reputation to Serbia and because Serbia is becoming more successful and that Serbia has increasingly more friends in the world. It has more loudspeakers who are conducting the same talk as the mantra, so many lies, the shameless insult of our president of the Assembly, destabilising the country now that we need to be unique about a very important thing. Since the budget is excellent and there is nothing against it, since the surplus is the third year in a row, it also shows that the opposition has submitted only 175 amendments to the budget. We've heard a lot of lies and nonsense, because as Albert Einstein said, human stupidity and the universe are infinite, I'm not sure about this second. Chairman, I would like to ask you other chairpersons that whenever opposition colleagues stand and interfere with the work of the Assembly that the session lasts until midnight without a break, because it is interesting to see which of the opposition's MPs will remain on their feet. We also see that the entire divided opposition finally agreed on one thing, which is hatred for Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50930	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50931	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the provision of Article 1 of the proposed Law on the central register of compulsory social security is prescribed an area governed by the law, which is primarily the establishment, bodies, activity of the Central Register, as well as its relationship with mandatory social security organisations. The proposed amendment further defines the subject matter of this law and refers to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on the rights of displaced persons. The displaced persons are the most vulnerable category of the population in the Republic of Serbia, whose problems arise in all areas of life, from solving housing needs, status issues, employment, and the exercise of PIO rights. After two decades of the end of the conflict, displaced persons do not enjoy guaranteed rights provided for by international documents, which is primarily the right of displaced persons to return freely to their homes and to return to them seized property during the period of resettlement or to be compensated for property that cannot be returned to them. Starting with this negative state of action, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with its active measures, confirms its firm determination and political will, together with other state bodies, in a comprehensive and transparent way, offering assistance and concrete solutions to all refugees and displaced persons so that they can make their own and best decisions on their future. The best illustration of this behaviour is the government of the Republic of Serbia and the proposed budget that we are discussing today, which is set close to a billion and a half dinars to support, return and survival in the KIM territory. The resources provided for will allow the realisation of the programme of construction, reconstruction of housing and accompanying, public and infrastructure facilities which are primarily related to the reconstruction of transit houses for collective housing of returnees, construction and reconstruction of returnees and socially endangered categories of population, assistance in construction material for reconstruction, adaptation and construction and completion of homes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50932	Thanks, buddy. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50933	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the central register of compulsory social security. This article refers to the subject matter of this draft law. The proposal for this law is unlike most of the laws that are now on the agenda, a brand-new law, but regulates those issues that have long plagued us in the past, which concern electronic administrations, i.e. electronic database management. This bill refers to all mandatory social security organisations, both for organisations related to pension and disability systems of the organisation concerned with the case of unemployment, but also for health insurance, but what is most important, in my view, is that in this law it introduces a comprehensive central register, i.e. a central database where different databases will be combined, and in relation to all social security bonds. It means that this bill not only covers all organisations of mandatory social insurance but also includes all employers and all insurance companies, and it is clear that it will in this way affect the efficiency of local self-government, but also the efficiency of the entire state administration. This law is in line with one of the key priorities of our government's programme, which is a priority that our administration should be good, that it be electronic and in the service of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50934	Thank you, colleague Mike. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, the Republic of Serbia is an example of successfully implemented economic reforms following the most difficult situation in Serbia's economic history in which the irresponsible leaders of the former regime have taken us. Reforms have resulted in economic growth and intensive economic progress which, most importantly, raised the standard of living for our citizens. Following the implementation of fiscal consolidation measures and the establishment of economic stability, sound foundations have been laid for the further improvement of all areas of our society, the increase in investment cycles, the accelerated development and the continued reduction of unemployment. The proposal for the 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is absolutely balanced, which is at the same time characterized by the social and development aspect, will certainly significantly improve the work of all local self-governments, which we took over in Vojvodina in 2016, completely devastated with empty, overindebted and robbed municipal registers. There was almost no local self-government, with no debts higher than the one-year budget of municipalities, which was also the case of the municipality of Novi Knezevec from which I come, not taking into account the unfavourable credit obligations that we are now paying off. If such a picture is added to the unemployment rate in many local self-governments and greater than 25.2%, it is freely said that, in addition to the criminal activity of the former regime, there was general hope and chaos. Today, when the unemployment rate is more than halved and reduced to a historical minimum in the world of numerous reform laws, the government recognized the necessity of adoption and the law on the central register of compulsory social security. The law on the central register of compulsory social security in the voting day should be unreservedly supported and the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 should be supported, as well as a set of reform laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50936	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50937	Thank you, Chairman. Honored Ministers, pursuant to Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security submitted by the Government, have submitted an amendment that reads in Article 1. The bill adds the position 2 which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving business. The amendment further defines the subject matter of this law. Social security as a form of social policy and social protection guaranteeing employees and members of their families material security and health care, including health insurance, pension insurance, disability insurance and unemployment insurance. The Pirot social security system takes a significant place in terms of scope and arrangements, respecting constitutional provisions under human and minority rights and freedoms, through national regulations through legislative and sublegal legislation. Of course, Piroth as part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in which principles and rules of international law and international agreements are generally accepted. In Pirote, there are branches of the Republic's PIO and the Institute of Health Insurance that work maximum in favour of all citizens by respecting legal regulations, which also affects the improvement of the business of all economic operators in the pyrotic district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50938	Thank you, colleague Kostic. You're always very good at representing your region and city. On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by the MP, the prime minister Dr Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50939	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, I am talking about a law that regulates the central register and social security obligations. That is the law I have submitted to Amendment 1 in Article 1. The bill adds a 2nd position -- this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on budgetary stabilisation. We have had a lot of problems in this area and this law regulates problems now, above all, about paying contributions to social and health insurance. So it provides efficient control of the collection of compulsory social security contributions, reduces the costs of administration, more efficient functioning of the social security system. We are talking about several laws in this debate, one document is certainly the most important, and this is the budget document we are talking about, and I think that the new finance minister is the best way with the government and the other ministers here to deliver the draft budget to us, which provides the full functioning of the Republic of Serbia, according to the revenues we have. We have here a finding that a lot of people are leaving, that there are small salaries, even though we have a lot of investments that have improved the budget. The goal is to have even more, to hire all people, to make unemployment zero so that wages can grow.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50940	Thanks, buddy. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50941	Respected chairman Marinkovic, Minister Mali and his associates, fellow MPs, a draft law on the central register of compulsory social security was also found in the previous days in a united debate. The objectives of the new law on the central register of compulsory insurance are to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs, more efficient functioning of the social security system. My amendment to Article 1 adds Article 2 and reads that this law encourages growth in the economy, a prescribed area governed by this law, explains the meaning of individual terms, as well as the principles to which the central register is handled in the performance of the business. The central register is an electronic service that was operationally released in 2013. The central registry portal is intended for both bonds by applying to compulsory social security and insurance or citizens. The Central Register shall take over the management of the register of employees, selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in the users of public funds, all in order to improve the quality of the data, or control on the same. I must point out that the Central Register runs a unique insurance, insurance and contribution bonds database. This law that we are about to adopt these days will inevitably affect the growth of the economy and in the future will provide huge assistance to both business organisations and employees in them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50942	Thank you very much. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, Dr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50943	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, mandatory social security is a legal obligation for employers and employees to pay contributions to appropriate funds, such as the PIO Fund, the Health Fund, etc. When we talk about the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security, I have submitted an amendment relating to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving health conditions and accordingly, I would like to point out that the total budget of the Ministry of Health for 2019 is 18 billion 712 million 691 thousand dinars and that the budget proposal for the Ministry of Health is higher by a billion and 332 million 592 thousand dinars compared to the 2018 budget. I mention only the most significant projects and activities in the 2019 budget of the Ministry of Health, which are: the Budgetary Fund for the Treatment of Diseases, Status or Injuries, which cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia, then, the health care of people with rare diseases, the construction and equipment of health institutions in state property whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, under four, the development of health care, the additional financing of new projects from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then the establishment of a national programme for organ transplantation in the Republic of Serbia, etc. I will talk about other activities and programmes within the Ministry of Health according to the following amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50944	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Doctor Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50945	And this law, ladies and gentlemen, on which I have submitted the amendment, is an important contribution to the general modernisation of our country, by uniting several different databases and making it available electronically, therefore, in the best possible manner of quality e-government, these data are available. As we also said, the budget we're talking about is a great step in the right direction. The budget brings between seven and 12% higher wages in the public sector. According to the President of the Union of Employers, such a budget, i.e. that rate of increase, will stimulate and move in the private sector, as, through an increase in competitiveness, resulting in an increase in wages in the sector. This budget, of course, also has resources to pay pensions between 8% and 13% compared to 2014 levels. And it's all good stuff. Thanks to the state's serious and responsible leadership, we have these laws and budgets for 2019, but thanks to such behaviour, the state had the strength and resources to help our people in KIM. In the last period, only a whole new one was built: two schools, one kindergarten, one university, one student clinic, a completely new hospital, a completely new home of health, 889 apartments and houses, and there will be more than 1,100 thanks to the settlement "Sun Valley", renovated 16 schools, seven kindergartens, one university, 20 infirmarys, one hospital, equipped with about 100 school and higher education facilities, provided fully new medical equipment for all hospitals, with significant resources for infrastructure and payment of all salaries and all pensions with a Kosovo supplement. In the period when our people in KIM are facing great tribulations and great temptations, we need harmony, we need a people's unity. And the last thing this people need in this time is a riot, the last thing they need is street riots and the last thing they need...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50946	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50947	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. The last thing you need is some yellow vests, like they were announced this Saturday. Serbia deserves much better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50948	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50949	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Security. I think the law is good, that we need to adopt it, and it will certainly contribute to the greater and better development of our country and the electronic administration in it. The reasons for this bill were multiple. I'll put some out. The first is the establishment of a central database, the second is that in this central database we will unite different databases, which were in different state bodies, then, keeping a single register for everyone in the public sector, thinking of all employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons, we will create a legal basis for connecting with other registers and thus contribute to the development of electronic administration. What else do we get? We'll get more effective control of the collection of contributions, reduce the costs of the administration, function more effectively in the social security system, electronic data exchange of state e-government authorities will work and we'll get a link with the tax administration, i.e. It will reduce abuse. It is important to point out that supervision of the implementation of this law and the work of the entire central registry will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance Affairs, which gives us a certain guarantee that it will be implemented. In the end, I would like to stress my dissatisfaction with the relationship between the opposition's work and this law, according to the budget and in general to its own state. I'll just say one sentence. If by any chance you were members of the Albanian national minority and you lived in Kosovo, this behavior would make you eat the dark. I'm happy to live in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50950	Thanks, buddy. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50951	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you noticed that the ruling majority MP mentioned that someone from the opposition would eat the dark? One nearly ate the dark about ten days ago when the Alliance for Serbia was in Krusevec and not only Borko Stefanovic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, was physically beaten, but two of his fellows who were with him. What you've forgotten is that even a cop who tried to protect them from beating up nine thugs and beatings, who have not been named to this day and who are not known to be the employers of that attack. Remember, the attack took place outside the hall where the Alliance for Serbia was held. So he's politically motivated. So now you've had one of those formulas repeated, if we were in KIM as an opposition, we'd be eaten by the dark by now. He regrets that he has not eaten us dark so far and calls for, for example, the Cypriot opposition that must be eaten by the dark if he thinks differently from their authority. Should we be eaten by the dark, Mr. Djukic, as Oliver Ivanovic ate the dark? Is that what you're thinking? Will you continue the beating, as was the case with Borko Stefanovic? Mr. Chairman, if this isn't for your reaction, if this isn't a scandal over scandals, that someone is asking the opposition to eat the dark and say it's surprised that it hasn't happened yet, so what do we all think after beating up Borko Stefanovic, trying to kill him, beating up two members of the left of Serbia and these announcements? Alexander Martinovic threatened us today. Now directly Mr. Djukic tells us that we will be eaten by darkness and regrets that we have not yet been eaten by the dark. Well, isn't that all the reason that Saturday from 6:00 p.m., student pay, protest against this government, until Alexander Vukic's fall?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50952	Thank you. I can agree with you that fellow Djokic used too harsh words and uncomplicatedly formulated his sentence. I'm sure of it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Bosko Obradović: Yes. Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. He's not here. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50953	We Serbian radicals to this kind of member, which is not actually a legal norm, regularly submit amendments and do not accept this explanation in how it was done. We have a general objection to this session and we talked about it, but also the fact that you held a session during one period until there was no television transmission, so then these, which is led by this coordinator, and I see no more vests, changed the tire, got out of here, and now they're back again. You shouldn't have allowed such a play. Simply, it should be done in front of the public, especially when it comes to the Budget Law and as much as you chairing are trying to draw attention to us that we are not talking about the budget because it is not currently on the agenda, it is simply not possible, especially when this law that we are talking about and which is on the agenda is actually one of the ways to fill the budget. When it comes to budgeting, there is always a question of how the budget is used, and we are certainly talking about it and we will talk about it both in the future and when it comes to representatives of the government and when it comes to representatives of the opposition. You know, is it moral to spend money from a budget given to a political party from which someone has been elected as a MP, and in the meantime to change one, two or not to know how many political parties? There was a cute picture on Twitter just now, as we were doing something today with Twitter, these four ladies, ladies, conditionally speaking, writes - four women 13 parties. So much for their morale and then trying to distract here that someone else isn't moral enough. (Maria Janjušević throws.) You're the only one who's cicticulating and screaming, but you can't change a picture of yourself. You are a picture and an opportunity of not working in Serbia, or the National Assembly, is a picture and an opportunity of not stealing mandates in the National Assembly. I used to wonder how this Sanda Raskovic went to Vuk Jeremic, and then I realized, since I wrote a preface for Seselj's book Wikiliks tells me -- the second part, and then I read a lot of these Vikilix dispatches that refer to Vuk Jeremic. Among other things, they say Vuk Jeremic attended the Faculty of Political Sciences, held some lectures there, and then apologized. The American ambassador always sent someone to listen to what they say and what they say as lecturers, and otherwise they chose the Faculty of Political Sciences, they say with that group of young people most easily manipulated because they're curious, because they read a lot, because they know what's going on in the world and then they chose those from the American Embassy and Vuk Jeremic then told the man who was sent by the ambassador at the time that he welcomed the ambassador, he apologized for having to speak differently to the public from what he's actually doing. The same is what Jovan Raskovic told Franji Tudjman. He says, "I tell them very often, to the Serbs, and to what they want, which I would not like. So, I have a lot more in this stenogram, probably there will be opportunities, but given this bill and this amendment, we ask, went Marinkovic, I was going to ask him, if the Higher Entrepreneurial School where he teaches an orderly full budget, whether he pays all the contributions and how many contributions he pays for Rasim Ljajic, who teaches there what and what is unknown on the basis of which and, of course, he gets a solid salary? (Nataša Mihajlović Vacic: Theme. ) The topic is Rasim Ljajic, his crime and the government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic, who must be freed from Rasim Ljajic if they want to continue to function normally. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50954	Thank you, colleague. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50955	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Minister, it may now be an opportunity, since it is the end of the calendar year, to discuss the problem of unrelated work experience and the inability of people who need to retire, and they are not paid mandatory social security contributions and they will not, of course, be found in either register, because many have not found a new job, so to speak, do something, mostly people manage, survive by being supported by children or by one of their spouses. It's about people from the Zastava factory cars, flag trucks, Gosa Smederevska Palanka, The first five-year-old, October 14th, they're really a lot. Can you give me information? Based on their legal solutions, there is still no possibility that from the bankruptcy of these failed companies... You know, the flag trucks come first with big trusts, there's formally another director and 12 employees, but for all these people, there's no way to pay off those debts from that mass. Many who have a very small vacuum from the number of years and work experience until retirement can't do it now. How did this happen, and how did the Serbian industry you're trying to recover in the first place? First of all, a criminal NATO bombing. That's why I can't believe that someone like Bosko Obradovic and all these yellow clicks can show up, say, in Luciani in the upcoming elections. That's the only place they made it. That's what Bosko talked them into saying. Yeah, I got some support there. Do you know how many times the NATO villains bombed the Lucians? They leveled with the ground and now they have even the nerve to show up there, they've robbed, destroyed, that yellow thieving DOS power, people out of work. Now this is really a problem. While they are here screaming, hitting and doing it all on the basis of that payment, no matter what Gilas, these are payments from those from the west whose arm they are extended, to make chaos and chaos in Serbia. We have a real problem now, Mr. Mali, because these people expect an answer and by the end of the year many of them really need to, based on their years of life and internships, which they have achieved in these factories, I just mentioned some of them to retire, but there's simply no possibility. What can the Serbian government or want to do to help these people?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-12-04-0.u50956	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. We'd be done with today's work and we'd be back tomorrow at 10:00.
