ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41672	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 137 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41673	Thank you. My first question goes to the address of the Ministry of Culture and Information and concerns allegations that the owner and editor of KTV TV from Zrenjanin recently made public the pressures on herself, her family, her television. Given the fact that it is a small number of TV stations in Serbia which, I would say objectively or as objectively, are trying to give both the authorities and the opposition a chance to make their views known. Far from the fact that it's some opposition television, on the contrary, but many of us on one side and on the other, we've been visiting these shows and we know that they're relatively balanced and objective. Mrs. Radic, the owner and editor of the TV from Zrenjanin, said she was being pressured by the city authorities to sell her television, i.e. that the pressure had arrived by, although not personally, but indirectly by Mr. Gasic, the senior official of the ruling party and current BIA chief. That's bad. In any case, it deserves to be examined, and I expect the ministry to answer me, or just to investigate the facts of the case. This, I would say, is an indicative and introduction to the second and main question of my own, and given the fact that the media scene in Serbia is so closed that everyone, as much as we remember older and younger than that one-party, one-way time, over the 1990s to 2000s, with all the objections we had, could for a reason have had media freedoms in those regimes, never been worse in the media. So, just a few, on the fingers of one hand, you can count the cells and the local cells that even give space to the opposition. Why is that? It's a special topic now, but I think one of the reasons, one of the more important reasons for this media closure in Serbia, is that there are not some facts that I said were about my next question. In fact, the practical public in Serbia does not know or is informed on the table that the position, which is what the Russian Federation and senior officials of the Russian Dume is about negotiations and this potential signing, of course, a comprehensive agreement with Kosovo, or Pristina. On several occasions, discreetly, diplomatically cautiously, yet clearly high representatives, as I said, the Russian Dume and the Russian ruling parties have sent a message that the position of Moscow defies, unlike what is usually widely published, very strong and principled on the subject of KIM and that Russia does not give up its principal positions there, which is that the basis of talks and possible agreements can only be Resolution 1244, and no comprehensive agreements and no border corrections and alike come into consideration at least when it comes to the Russian Federation, that this is their principled position. They reiterated their stance in talks with the country's delegation, representatives of Serbs with KIM and other organisations, where they clearly reiterated and stressed support and commitment to Serbia, but also to the 1244 resolution and respect for international law. This information and such information, and therefore my question goes to the address of the Ministry of Dispute Affairs and the Secretary-General, or the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, are they informed, are they aware of this position, are they familiar with that position of the Russian Federation, or the Russian Dume, and is the policy they are taking and the negotiations they are taking in Brussels with representatives of Pristina in line with this? We have had the opportunity to meet, or hear what the red lines of Pristina are before this new round of negotiations. Their representatives Thaci, Haradinaj and others said very clearly. We don't know what our government's red lines are, so here's exactly what this message was sent in conversation with the country's representatives by Russian officials could be an example, an illustration and a base of these red lines, I say, which we don't know if they exist, and I'm afraid they're not. Finally, my third question to the address of the president, or the Head of Parliament – when will a special session be scheduled on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija? I think it's absolutely high time and there's absolutely no excuse that there's no such conversation here in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41674	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41675	Thank you. The first question I refer to is the Minister of Sports and Youth, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health, as well as to the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia – whether you are concerned with the devastating and catastrophic data that we had yesterday had the opportunity to hear in the media, which is that about 50% of the young people in Serbia are depressed and anxietyous? I don't know how this research was done methodically, but I believe there aren't many mistakes and there may be even worse data, and in that sense there may be some mistake. Do you think this is a red alarm and what are we going to do about it? What do we offer to young generations today, besides cheap drugs on the street and various reality programs, violence and promotion of patriotism in the form of hatred for other peoples? Do you have a solution to this problem and can we get a report on the implementation of the youth strategy, especially in the area of youth health and safety? Question for Education Minister Mladen Sarčević – can the National Accreditation Body be expected to include in standards for accreditation a part relating to the accessibility of higher education institutions, both architectural and information communication for students with disabilities? You have probably seen in the Report of the institutions of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality that this is one of the recommendations on the availability of higher education to students with different types of disability, as well as the UN Committee for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In 2015, a draft proposal for amendments to these standards for accreditation was already made in one project, however, they were never adopted. I suppose there are strong resistances in certain monopolitical behaviours of certain higher education institutions, but you, Minister, probably know that the affirmative measures that are taken to enroll students with disabilities are not enough for these students to get involved in higher education in an adequate way. For many students with quality greater problems than how they will prepare and whether they will pass the exam presents how they will move around the higher education institution and how they will find materials in accessible formats. Question for Minister Zorana Mihajlović – is there a commission within your ministry that monitors the application of the Regulation on Technical Standards of Planning, so now that I do not read the entire Regulation, but which refers to the accessibility of objects intended for persons with disabilities, children and older people? In the Law on Planning and Construction, Article 206 states that a request for the initiation of an infringement procedure relating to the non-compliance with these standards in the construction and adaptation of buildings is submitted by the competent urban inspector. Has any criminal proceedings ever been initiated and what does it look like in practice? Here, I suggest you start with your portfolio and tell us what has been done about the accessibility of the main bus and train station in Belgrade and whether according to the reconstruction plan of the railway station "Prokop" plans to make this station accessible to people with disabilities, because children will somehow enter, but for older people and disabled people it is practically impossible and not in accordance with their respect for their personal integrity. Question for Minister Zlatibor Lončar – why are there no provisions regarding the accessibility of health institutions in the Regulation on the near conditions for performing health work in health institutions? I don't know if you know it, but there is hardly any clinic within the Serbian Clinical Center that has an affordable toilet for people moving with wheelchairs. I guess somewhere traditionally medically accessing people with disabilities is considered not to get out of bed and that these shops are probably carried out in a room or in a bed, but it's really embarrassing that, for example, the clinic for infectious and tropical diseases doesn't have a toilet in which a person who uses a wheelchair can enter. Of course, one may not be so important to you, but I like to deal with these earthly issues, which is why the toilets in the health care facilities are in a catastrophic state, and they look like toilets at a train station and bus station, when we know that in the malls of hygiene in the toilets are impeccable, and several thousand people pass there daily? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41676	Thank you. The word is Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41677	Thank you. I ask the question as Minister of Culture and Informing Mr Vukosavljevic. It is the actual results of the competition for budgetary resources defined for the production of TV media content in 2018, as well as information in public related to this competition that raises the validity and regularity of budget spending in the fields of culture and information. There's a G.F.C. production in the contest. A 3.7 million dinar has been identified from Belgrade, which is among the highest individual amounts, and as its reference in the official application in the scope of the applicant's experience in similar projects, cited the cinematographic achievement of the author Bosko Savikovic, thereby misusing other people's authorship. According to the documentation obtained, it is unequivocally apparent that the company is a company of G.F.C. Doo from Belgrade said it participated in the production of the film "In the Name of Life 1999", that for the same film, the winner of the "Golden Bear" award in Berlin in 2017, as well as the winner of the "Silver Dolphin" award in Cannes. Maybe this is how a reference would be comical in a movie, but it's actually worrying in real life. It is not true that the film was awarded the "Golden Bear" award in Berlin in 2017, and concerns the fact that the Ministry of Culture and Information is not familiar with it. It is true that the film "In the Name of Life 1999" was awarded with the Award for Excellence at the Berlin Golden Gate Festival in 2017. In 2017, the same film won nine more international awards, including the "Silver Knight" in Moscow. It also concerns the fact that the Resolute Ministry is not familiar with it. At a press conference due to the competition in question, State Secretary Aleksandar Gajovic, among other things, said the references were not part of the competition documentation, and that participants signed a document claiming, under moral and criminal responsibility, that all documents provided by them were correct and correct, and transfer the whole issue to a private dispute between Bosko Savkovic and the production of G.F.C. and thus closed the topic of competition for media content. With this theme, of course, it cannot be closed, but it opens up a series of questions that I refer to Minister Vukosavljevic. Why does the legislator, the Ministry of Culture and Information in this case not respect the provisions of the law he passed, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights? Why hasn't the Ministry checked the competition records? How is it possible for the disputed reference to be given in the official application of the Ministry of Information and Culture in the scope of the applicant's experience in similar projects without being checked and the Secretary of State saying that the references are not part of the competition documentation? How is it possible for the funds to be identified by someone who has signed a document that, under moral and criminal responsibility, claims that all the documents they have provided are accurate and correct, while enforcing other people's authority? I leave the professional NUNS and UNS associations to my conscience whether they will use any regulatory means to protect their professions. A question for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. According to officially available data from the Public Debt Administration, Serbia paid in 2017 and 2018 for undrawn funds for approved loans to international lenders around 4.4m euros. Unfortunately, it is not clear from that data how much we have paid for each individual loan for the penalty due to the delay. What can be seen, however, from the available data is that late last year and early this year, among other things, existed in the withdrawal of funds for the Corridor 10 projects, the Railways of Serbia, the Ways of Serbia, and the list includes the Public Enterprise of Serbia and the Elektroprivreda of Serbia. Some of these loans have been approved years ago, but the projects haven't moved for long for dead points. The budget creditor's fees are paid not only for loans taken for large infrastructure projects, such as travel corridors, but also on the basis of guarantees provided for loans from public and state-owned enterprises. All in all, it is crucial that citizens of Serbia, apart from loans, are burdened and foamed by the lack of funds from the loan, without completion of the projects. So I ask Prime Minister Brnabic - who is responsible for the payment of the penalty, as well as for the unrealisation of the projects for which the loans are granted? A question for the Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr. Trivan, we are witnessing...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41678	Thank you. It's been a while. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41679	I thank the president. I ask the question of Parliament Presidents - When will a special session be scheduled to discuss Kosovo, dialogue with Pristina, and at which MPs, as representatives of the people and all citizens of Serbia, be introduced to what is being discussed in Brussels, with the platform or plans of the President of the Republic? I am asking you this question especially because you are present in the hall, because so far we have not received any response to official initiatives and demands from certain parliamentary groups to organise a session like this. What is happening and how the negotiations are conducted is best said by the fact that we listen to contradictory statements from day to day from the President of the Republic through all the representatives of the authorities, and we only know what happened in the past, since the signing of the Brussels Agreement, and beyond, it has happened that Kosovo has been given a telephone call number, that established institutions, a complete judicial executive and legislative authority, that you have established border crossings, that you have created power with Ramush Haradinaj, who you rule in Kosovo today. Yes, in the meantime Oliver Ivanovic was killed and that from day to day, we listen to different statements that can hardly be associated with each other. President Aleksandar Vukic, but other representatives of the Republic, said talks in Brussels would not continue until officials and perpetrators of Oliver Ivanovic's murder are discovered. I don't know what happened in the meantime, but the Brussels talks were continued, on the other hand, there's no telling who was involved in Oliver Ivanovic's murder or who did it. Also, we saw news that a meeting of representatives of the Serbian List was held the other day, whose delegation was led by Milan Radojicic, also president of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, said he was not in good relations with Oliver Ivanovic, that they had a meeting with Ramush Haradinaj, and that they had returned to parliament. So they continue to carry out their duties in the Kosovo parliament, as well as ministers in the Kosovo government. Vukic said the continuation of talks with Kosovo Albanians is possible only if there is no attack on Serbs, attempts to take over territories, arrests that come to mind. All this is happening, and negotiations continue. Serbian citizens face secret negotiations on their national interests, on their property, and you are required under the Constitution and the law to inform citizens what you are doing to preserve Serbia's national interests, and you must say it clearly and aloud. They took an oath here in this room and the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and all ministers that you will fight for the preservation of Kosovo within the Republic of Serbia, and you here have to account for what you are doing on this issue. What the citizens could hear in the previous days, which is that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, reads daily between 500 and 600 pages of documents on Kosovo, but still, there is currently no proposal to solve Kosovo's problem. He promised that in March, or April, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia and MPs, we would get a platform for negotiations and a proposal to solve the problem. We didn't get that answer. We heard he won't sign anything. We have now heard that we must go to a referendum, that citizens take responsibility, instead of him, to hide behind that high treason, behind citizens because of their high treason. He repeated repeatedly that it is impossible for Serbia to give everything without getting anything. Also, for Serbia to win a single metre in Kosovo, and today we have nothing. That he refused some American package, to talk about demarcation, etc., etc. In parallel with him, the prime minister says they are very transparent negotiations. I ask the question, by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, also Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic - What exactly is being talked about in Brussels? What's the deal so far? What is offered to Serbia? What is an unacceptable solution for Serbia for Kosovo, and is signing a legally binding agreement expected by the end of this year? So, when are you scheduled to hold a session to be discussed in this house, in this most important political topic at the moment, regarding the preservation of Serbian national interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41680	I beg the parliamentary group enough to tell me who will ask the question Ana Stevanović or Branislav Mihajlovic? The word is Branislav Mihajlović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41681	Thank you. My question for Serbian Director Dusan Bajatovic and Economy Minister Goran Knezevic. The workers of the Panchetic Azotara strike in a circle of the factory. One of the largest nitrogen fertilisers and nitrogen compounds in the region, Pančeva Azotara goes bankrupt. It was announced to the public last week by Resolute Minister Aleksandar Antic over what he said was the factory's overindebted debt. He announced that after the bankruptcy process was completed, the factory would be offered for sale. Who and how, we don't know that. The debts of the HIP Azotara have been accumulated year after year. They are currently about 200m euros, which is twice the value of the total asset estimated at around 100m euros and 90% of the factory's debt to the public company "Srbigas" whose director is Dusan Bajatovic. Azotara employs about a thousand hard-on workers. Since yesterday's seven-hour strike in the factory, they say the news of bankruptcy has been particularly surprising because Azotara has been doing well since the beginning of the year and they believe that bankruptcy in this situation has been an extorted solution. It is clear to all of us that our majority owner is "Srbigas" in a share of 85 to 90%, and our biggest debts are for natural gas that we get right from "Serbiagas" and it is a little unusual that the owner himself is pushing his company into bankruptcy and that is where we believe the government is responding. Says the worker of Azotara, Lazar Bogosavev. He also says the government can invest funds and write off some of those debts. The state workers blame only management and management. It states they're asking for all the paperwork from management and meeting with the director. He says workers won't give up their jobs so easily. It's a shame to stop a company like this. We are a agricultural country and this factory is the only ammonia producer in the Balkans and it is even of military importance, because it can also create some kind of explosives and it is a shame to close it, Bogosavljev said. Representatives of the Azotara Union sent an open letter to the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic and the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic, in the previous days. They also participated in a working group with government representatives, made their demands and expected answers from the authorities. Due to all the above-mentioned question for General Director "Srbijagas" Dusan Bajatovic, "Srbijagas" as a majority shareholder, that is, General Director Dusan Bajatovic as a responsible person has special responsibilities because of the situation in Azotara Pančevo for which bankruptcy is announced, whose workers strike. He also has responsibility for all other companies that have ruined his inexperience, for example, the animal meat processing company Agroziv, Zitišje and MSK Kikinda. As the CEO of "Srbijagas" Bajatovic receives a monthly of 165,000 dinars since 2008. As a member of the Jugorosgas Supervisory Board, he has received 1,644,471 dinar since 2009. As a member of the Supervisory Board of the underground gas warehouse Banatski dvor, it has been revenueing from 593,000 dinars a month since 2015. The question for Dusan Bajatovic -- since you receive two and a half million dinars a month or over 20,000 euros, did you save enough to compensate at least for one company you have ruined, since, when the government changes, you will certainly submit bills to the citizens of Serbia for this misdeed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41682	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41683	Thank you, Chairman. My first question for the president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, Minister Ivica Dacic and Minister for European Integration Jadranka Joksimovic. Is it true that the EU Foreign Affairs Committee is preparing a document on alleged co-operation between Serbia and so on. Kosovo countries to whom would Serbia recognise Kosovo's independence? Is it true that Aleksandar Vucic accepted this in 2014 as part of negotiations with the EU on Serbia's EU accession, as at point 23 of the EU's negotiating position with Serbia clearly states that in one phase of the negotiations Serbia and Kosovo as two sides will sign a binding legal agreement on comprehensive normalisation of relations? It was a document from January 2014, which Aleksandar Vukic hid from the citizens, which he began to speak publicly only in November 2017, and did not ask them anything then, nor when he signed the Brussels Agreement. The fact that he is now trying to transfer his high treason to citizens through the referendum is just cowardice and citizens of Serbia, I'm sure, it will not allow and see through his intention, because no country has voluntarily given up 15% of its territory. My second question is for the minister of education and for the presidents of the Assembly Committee on Education and Science, as well as for the vice president, because we have recently discussed that students studying under the old programme should be allowed to enter a year to extend their study deadline. My question is, did this permit include those students who enrolled in Bologna, the famous first year when incompetent politicians learned from students, when they introduced Bologna in a completely random way? So these students stay like in some vacuum. They're at the end of the study. They may have had one more exam or degree, and it would be fair for them to be allowed to extend their study period, because the re-enquirement now offered to them is not fully defined legally. So the criteria should be the same for all students. They should be allowed to come to their diploma in a fair way, since they obviously do not want to buy it and do not want to get into some positions in an unfair way. The next question is for Mr Djordjevic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and President Aleksandar Vukic. Was the baby returned to the Milojkovic family from Mladenvec, who was taken from them without a court order because the house was wasted? Locals, meanwhile, have made every effort to get the house ready and to provide conditions for that baby's life. So, now that the shortcomings have been removed, is the child returned to the parents or is there still a reason to take away someone else? How many of the 5,668 children were taken from their parents during the previous five years, adopted abroad, through the intervention of the Swedish agency "Adoption Cetnru", because I have written confirmation from the Ministry of Labour that they are working very successfully with this Swedish agency for many years? Is the ideology of genders, so-called. "gender" ideology contrary to family policy, which, declaredly, is the current regime? There are now over 70 different generations in the world, and in Serbia, for now, we have LGBTI - lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals. So will this regime support family policy or LGBTI ideology? What is your personal attitude regarding equal marriages and the adoption of children by these marriages? I'm also interested in whether a verbal delinquent has been officially introduced in Serbia? I'm asking because he's a respected professor. Branislav Ristivojevic was convicted of his scientific work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41684	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41685	Thank you, President. I would like to request a notice from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the Prime Minister, and regarding the recent success of Belgrade's Faculty of Mathematics and High School "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" from Novi Sad. Namely, 59. The international mathematical Olympics, held in Romania, which ended a few days ago, won six medals for our country in the competition of over 100 countries, two gold, two silver and two bronzes, a success that we did not achieve even in the time of the SFRY, which was three times the size of the population. What I'm interested in is if we're giving our athletes the greatest medals in the world's biggest national pension contests, is there any idea that we should suggest that we give these kids such a recognition for no less valuable success? If it doesn't exist, I'd like to run this idea as a topic of thought. Of course, this proposal applies not only to the success of mathematics but also to the successes of this rank from all possible scientific disciplines, because I believe that this way we would give motive to our children, or our young talents to stay in Serbia. I am sure that there will be those who will say – well, they have already decided to leave, why should we grant them a national pension, so I asked you – and what does a national pension mean, for example, by some top-notch sportsman, whose sum of money in his total income is a statistical error? Well, it doesn't mean anything to him, but it's not the point of national recognition in money, the point of national recognition is in symbol, in signal, in a sign that we appreciate success and that we appreciate someone's effort and work. Not to mention that very often lately, with full law, we are talking about digitisation as priority number 1 of Serbia's state, the IT sector as a very important sector today, probably an even more important sector in Serbia's future, and that we are investing a lot in the IT sector through the various incentives that we give to both domestic and foreign companies, and then we need to keep, or find ways to keep young IT experts in Serbia. When I say we find a way, I think we find literally every possible way, and I think this is one of the ways to keep them, that after high school they go abroad to study, that they never come back, because why would our kids go after school to study at Cambridge, Oxford, MIT, Berkeley or Standford, or why, let's say, one Cambridge would have motive or their motive to grant scholarships to the students of mathematical high school every year when they're not going to stay on that Cambridge forever, because one day they're going to be Kembridge promoters as his former students. These children are Serbia's promoters thanks to the successes they achieve. Speaking of mathematical high school, I would like to remind you that as early as 2007, the government of the Republic of Serbia declared this school a school of special national importance and not for no reason, because this school has won almost 500 medals for Serbia since its founding until today at various scientific Olympics. If we are developing a knowledge society, and I'm sure we want to and we want to work on developing it, then we need to be able to appreciate and reward it, and so I would ask the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to consider this initiative and that we, in writing, respond to it. I would take this opportunity to ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development for another notice, which we have already discussed and in principle agreed that this law should be passed, as well as a special regulation that would regulate the work of this specific institution of special importance for the Republic of Serbia, until such a law is passed. With this rule, it is quite late and I would ask Minister Sarčević to use his authority to adopt this rule, because this school is specific. It must employ a special scientific and teaching frame, it has special needs, in a peorative sense, for these students, because they have to do more than some other children and these children travel very often, which is why this school has very specific needs and therefore it is necessary to bring a special rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41686	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41687	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. I ask the question to the president of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime of the Republic of Serbia. A while ago, one of the criminals was killed, said he was one of the most prospective in these tabloid media, a certain Sale Mutavi, who was killed and Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic said it was a kind of attack on the state. A few days ago, we had an acquittal for the Special Operations Unit's armed rebellion, and unfortunately the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, said it was a state-class defence, since the judiciary, which works perfectly, was in this process very independent and that he, as president of the Republic of Serbia, had no intention of commenting on court rulings. I ask the question – if we have already had the opportunity to hear in the past what certain politicians have said about the Special Operations Unit's rebellion, which was a sort of prelude to the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Why does the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, and the verdict clearly states - the prosecution has failed to prove that the rebellion at all did not invite Vojislav Kostunica to make a statement as one of those who politically supported and justified the Red Beret armed rebellion, which was the thing that ended in the end by killing Zoran Djindjic? I quote Vojislav Kostunica in 2001: "The work they do is such, and one of them said they have no other uniforms except those they have. The doctor has his uniform, someone else has his clothes, and they appear in what is their work clothes and everyday clothes. “ Why has Vojislav Kostunica never been called by the Prosecutor’s Office for Organized Crime to give a statement before the court, what exactly did he mean, why did he support the Special Operations Unit’s political rebellion? If we just take a look at the trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, why has Vojislav Seselj never responded, and he announced the murder of Zoran Djindjic? Why has Tomislav Nikolic never been invited from the prosecution to make a statement, since he said Tito had a leg problem before he died? Why is Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic holding friends of the Zemun clan in the government of Serbia today, one of them is Minister Loncar, who was a very big friend and highly ranked friend of Dusan Spasojevic, leader of the Zemun clan? Vukic can be proud of the state for its impeccable functioning, for judges, for whom everyone has influence other than themselves, except the law, but in order for the judiciary to be independent, the verdicts must not have any influence on the side and they must be independent. The judiciary gave up its independence in this way because it ruled with Djindjic's murderers that they were in protest, not in armed rebellion, and Serbian citizens had the opportunity to see it with their own eyes. This is how the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder is covered up. In this way, those who rejoiced when Zoran Djindjic was killed have opportunities to rejoice today. Some of them are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Alexander Vukic is responsible for this today. At one time, Vojislav Seselj led the political camel, after which Tomislav Nikolic led it today. We can talk about the division of branches of government by tomorrow. In one of them is Vojislav Seselj, the executive, second, sits Zoran Lončar, and all those who politically supported, such as Vojislav Kostunica and Tomislav Nikolic, the attack on Zoran Djindjic and announced his murder, they are today free citizens and are absolutely not responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41688	Thank you. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I was about to ask some questions about the rule of law. The predecessor may have given a good introduction. He asks why Vojislav Seselj did not answer because he said he announced the murder of Zoran Djindjic? And what would you answer for? No one can answer because they see what's obvious. There is a proverb that says: "Whoso is the sword, by the sword, and shall perish." Zoran Djindjic was the head of the mafia Hydra in Serbia. It is a time when it is also said that every state has its own mafia, only in Serbia has its own state. When you talk about some people, I tell my predecessor, you should remember first of all that those heroes of the Petoctobar Buldozer Revolution, that you were on the wings of those criminals coming to power, that you were taking guns, here, a few hundred meters from here at the Old Town Police Station in Mother's Jerusalem, that you were walking with these people armed with state institutions, that you allowed these people to do various jobs in Serbia, to asphalt, to buy, practically make the most possible expansion of their criminal affairs, and then you wonder, when it came to the obvious that there was a discrepancy over the division of this mugging body, then you wonder how Vojislav Seselj could have announced that Zoran Djindjic would be killed? You know, when the mob's on the line, somebody gets hurt, and it's not new. And for anyone with little political, little life experience, that's not new. The second question is, why didn't you establish that political background for the murder of Zoran Djindjic when he was killed? Why did you run away from it then, and today 15 years later, you're talking about it? You were the government. Why didn't you determine the political responsibility of one of the main ideologists and featherers of DS, Cedomir Jovanovic, who brought women, children and everything else to prison, as you say to the murderers of Zoran Djindjic? So let's first see who was blowing all the DOS leaders in the same pumpkin with them, and then we'll determine the responsibility of opposition politicians. We've never run from it. Vojislav Seselj gave a statement in The Hague tribunal that you had any indication, any possibility, that you would have accused him long ago, and this is just a moaning, crying, a swan song. The other thing I wanted to ask Mrs. Brnabic, namely Mrs. Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, about the principle of lawfulness in criminal law, about the rule of law, about the retroactive application of the milder, which is the exception, that is, the rule of law always applies to a lesser law in criminal law. However, the DOS regime had a need to create some reality. He needed to prove some things that were unproven. Political processes for some assassinations were conducted, processes in which the main target was actually Slobodan Milosevic. One such process also condemned Milorad Ulemek the Legion for alleged crimes and crimes committed before the death penalty was abolished. What requires the only exception to the ban on the retroactive validity of criminal laws is to apply a softer law to the perpetrator, either in force at the time of the verdict, or the one in force at the time of the execution of the crime. In this case, at the time of the execution of the crime, it was possible to impose a death penalty, but the position of the fourth member of the law prescribed that the court, instead of the death penalty, could impose as the most severe sentence and prison sentence of 20 years. When the law was changed, a 40-year sentence was imposed...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41690	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41691	I'm done. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41692	Thank you. Finish your sentence. (Imanja Sarovic: The microphone is off. How do I finish? ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41693	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I would like to ask a few questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically the Ministry of Justice. I am interested in which stage is the preparation of amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, in particular Article. 38th and 39th, relating to paying groups, as well as to a member of the 44th Law, which determines the necessary working experience for the selection of judges. The amendments and additions to this law that I am interested in would directly refer to the alignment of the status of judges of criminal courts with judges of the same degree in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind you that the misdemeanor courts began working in 2010, that the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors was educated by 45 first-degree criminal courts and the Criminal Court of Appeals. Judges of these courts judge very complex cases in the area of prevention of domestic violence, violence at sports events, areas of public order and peace, traffic security, corruption, customs violations, violations of the budget system, foreign exchange, taxes, traffic of explosive matter and in many other areas and in their work apply about 300 different laws and close to thousands of sublegal acts. So, with the current legal changes, the judges of these courts have acquired all the obligations, acquired the status of judges, very diligently fulfil their obligations, because on average, judges for violations in the Republic of Serbia are solving about 130 cases a month and even if the norm prescribed for them by 60 cases is not small at all. Such a norm, especially this number of resolved cases, requires extremely serious, thorough work, commitment and knowledge, but what they are not equal with their fellow judges is the status rights that belong to their fellow judges from that stage. I do not want to remind myself of what is least important to me, which is that, among other things, this is part of the National Strategy for Justice Reform that was brought in for the period 2013/18. For years, compliance with EU rules and compliance with European and world standards has been undertaken. This is just a reminder so we don't lose a step in rounding up the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, because you will admit that the issue of the judge's salary is really a matter of guaranteeing independence in performing its judicial function. Of course, it was undeniable that all of this had to be done in 2010, and what we're thinking now is just proving that the Dosmanli regime, which was in power at the time, was neither interested nor interested in independent and independent justice. In addition, there are countless evidences and facts about this, from the fact that the likeness of judges has been determined by cafes by semi-literate politicians in Vlasotinc, that even in writing with DS seals they have provided notices and determined that the basic criterion for judges, who will be resolved, is that they are not obedient and similar. I would not talk about this shame on the whole of Serbia, which took place in 2009 and 2010, because in addition to all the objective reasons, this is just another reason I hope to make a contribution to this issue and to encourage the equalisation of the material status of judges for violations with judges of other courts soon to be found before the MPs of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41694	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41695	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the D.A.'s office and the Department of Industry. Through George Soros, the US CIA formed the Resistance in Serbia, which in the five-octobaric coup in 2000, led the former Dosmanli regime to power. The regime has formed a joint criminal enterprise that has destroyed the economic and political power of the Republic of Serbia, its vital institutions, especially the police and the military, through robbery privatisation and other forms of crime. Respected citizens of Serbia, members of the joint criminal enterprise, among others, were still three current politicians today, and that is: Dragan Djilas, a people called Điki Mafia, Sasa Jankovic, in a people called Sale prangia, and Vuk Jeremic, a people called Vuk descendant. With that in mind, I'm asking the question -- is it true, and I think it is, that Dragan Gilas, a Điki mafia, as mayor of Belgrade, robbed Telekom Serbia in 2011 by forcing, as mayor, Director Branko Radjujk to buy four Gilas' "Arena Sport" cable channels for 7.7m euros, although Telekom could not have owned the media at the time. Giki Mafia was, we could say, a mere poverty, and after a few years in politics increased its wealth by about 40m euros, but therefore left the city of Belgrade in debt by a billion and 200,000 euros. Why, I'm asking a question, the D.A. didn't launch an investigation? Second question. Sasa Jankovic, called Sale Prangi, was the main actor in the "Pistol" affair when in 1993 in Jankovic's apartment, without permission, Predrag Gojkovic allegedly committed suicide. Is it true, and I claim that it is, that Dr. Branko Prpa, as director of the historical archive of the city of Belgrade on June 14, 2004, destroyed the case by commission and so knowingly deprived the responsibility of Saleta prangija? Based on which documents, I ask the question, did she do it? I'm looking for a photocopy of the document. Who were the members of the Commission and who was the public prosecutor? Next question. Vuk Jeremic, in the people, and I answer to previous speakers called the Wolf descendant, according to Wikilix, December 2008, gentlemen, in a conversation with US congressman Ted Dom, I quote that the entry of KIM into the UN is the best that Serbia can hope for, if we are lucky, a quote. The wolf descendant, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, requested and achieved the transfer of the Kosovo problem from the UN Security Council to the EU and brought the Eulex mission to KIM and thus stabbed it in the back, not only to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the state of Serbia. The Wolf of Jeremic, so-called The progenitor, needlessly, asked such a disastrous question to the International Court of Justice on the independence of KIM and by who knows which time, respected citizens, stabbed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Why does the D.A. keep quiet about this problem? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these days, from the end and the rope, some group has been collected, among others, by Dragan Djilas, Sasa Jankovic, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Janko Vesenovic, a resident, and many others who already share the mandates, instead of presenting the programme. Respected citizens, they don't have it, they never had it, they don't know how to make it. They're making fun of social media with the program. All that, respected citizens, which Comrade Tito built, Slobodan Milosevic kept, this group of former regimes of the joint criminal enterprise destroyed everything by robbery documentation, and Aleksandar Vukic with SNS is rebuilding and modernising Serbia. They saw that Vukic filled their national register, and here they are, the respected citizens, they've had to rob it again. They're the only group, as you can see, of mobsters, murderers, thieves, con men and luftis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41696	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Gordana Comic, Milena Ćorilić and Vladimir Đuric. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened shorter than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). As a result of the need for the National Assembly to review the proposals for acts set out in the agenda set out in the request of the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 154 MPs in accordance with Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly, Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a request was submitted for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a specific agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the session of the ninth extraordinary session in the 11th session, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on human cells and tissues; 2. Proposal for a law on human organ transplantation; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the International Atomic Energy Agency under the Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the Application of Guarantees concerning the Non-Proliferation Treaty; 5. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first elected to the judicial office of 10 July 2018; 6. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first elected on the Judgeship of 13 July 2018; 7. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin; 8. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions; 9. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; 10. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; National MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic proposed to carry out a joint principled single search on the Proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues, the Proposal for a Law on Human Authorities, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Psychotically-controlled Substances, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the International Atomic Energy Agency under the Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the Application of Guarantees in relation to the Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons; the Proposal for a Decision on the Choice of Judges to the Court of Justice of 10 July 2018; the Proposal for a Decision on a Decision of the Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia on the Court of First Amendment of First Instance of First Instance of 13 July 2018; the European Parliament on the draft Decision on the Convention on the European Parliament's's's's's Court of First Decision on the Court of First Decision on the Court of First Amendments of First Instance of First Instance on the Court of 13 July 2018. Does the promoter want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: for – 134 MPs, against – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of the Minister of Health Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarčević, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Đukić, Dr. Berislav Vekić, Dr. Ferenc Vicko and Dr. Meko Mamutović, State Secretary in the Competent Ministry, Ivan Jovičić, Electoral member of the High Council of Judges, Aleksandar Pantic, member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Judges, Dr. Dragan Vujičić, Deputy Minister of Health, Sladjan Velinov, Director of the Agency for Protection of Ionian radiation and Nuclear Security of Serbia, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, Executive Director of Biomedicine Management, Ivana Avramović and Branko Vlinović, Assistant Director of the Agency for the Protection of the Security of Serbia and Security and Security of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Ljubljana, the former Minister of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the former Minister of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1), Article 192(3) and Article 201. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues; Proposal for a Law on Human Authorities, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Psychotically-controlled Substances; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the International Atomic Energy Agency under the Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the Application of Guarantees in connection with the Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons; Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Judges First Choice at the Judicial Function of 10 July 2018; Proposal for a Decision on the Choice of Judges to the Choice of Judges in the First Decision of 13 July; Proposal for a Decision on the Termination of the Court of Public Prosecutors in the Basic Public Prosecutors in Negotinies in Negotination; Proposal for a Decision of Members of Members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? I give the word to the Minister of Health, Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41697	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is my great pleasure to present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, proposals for legislation that will further improve and modernise our health system. In line with the development of medical sciences and modern medical achievements, our legislation in this area, in line with the European regulations of the laws we present today, is literally and vitally important because their application in medical practice saves the lives of Serbian citizens. So I ask you to listen carefully to the presentation, and then, hopefully, give support to these legal solutions. In front of you, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the transplantation of human organs that regulates the transplantation of human organs and conditions to ensure the quality and safety of human organs for transplantation, working conditions and the way in which the health system is organised in order to ensure sufficient human organs for transplantation, control of the implementation of this law, as well as other issues of importance for the field of human organ transplantation. The reasons for the adoption of this bill are contained in the need for the human organ transplant area to be systemically regulated, i.e. to establish and provide conditions for the achievement of human organ quality and safety standards for transplantation, as well as conditions and methods of organisation of the health system in order to ensure the optimal sufficientness of human organs and transplants and to ensure a high level of protection of human health, as well as respecting priority interests for the preservation of life and health and the protection of fundamental human rights and dignity of human organs and organ recipients. The organ transplant area has so far been governed by the 2009 organ transplant law, as well as by sublegal acts adopted under the law. This law is partly in line with European legislation in this area which was in force at the time of its adoption. Following the period of application of this law, the need to improve and specify the conditions, organisations and activities in the field of human organ transplants, as well as to monitor the performance of activities in the area mentioned in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has been established. Namely, the applicable law, which regulates organ transplantation, did not recognise the importance of defining and regulating the performance in this area, as well as the conditions under which this activity can be carried out, which included giving, testing, assessing the similarity of human organ donors, obtaining, granting, assigning and transplanting human organs for the purpose of treating humans, which caused poor years of practice in health institutions to carry out procedures in this area, but without defining the conditions at national level as they would be done, as well as without making a distinction between a health institution that could be a hospital for the donation of organs and health institutions that could be a centre for human organ transplantation, which resulted in the inability to issue permits for the work of all the above mentioned health institutions. As one of the main reasons for the adoption of the bill, the increase in cadaverial donations and the increase in the number of successful organ transplantation procedures is to reduce the waiting list for human organs to be transplanted, it was necessary to establish the basis for the establishment of an organisational system, as well as to establish effective donation procedures, i.e. obtaining dead persons' organs in accordance with professional standards, professional guidelines and ethical principles and modern standards of medical science and practice, as well as the basic quality of human transplant authorities' safety. So that, above all, the bill clearly executes the division of health institutions that will carry out transplantation activities, i.e. human organs and human organ donation hospitals, as a clear division of jobs and obligations carried out by one or another of the above mentioned health institutions. Also, the bill requires the adoption of a human organ transplant programme that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and will define clear procedures and procedures regarding the organisation, teams and financing of the overall human organ transplantation process. The draft law has laid down a simplified authorisation procedure for human organ transplant operations, as well as the establishment of a single information system in the field of human organ transplantation, in order to establish and maintain a traceability system. One of the papers of the bill's proposal is to simplify the process of granting consent to human organs, avoiding unnecessary financial costs of keeping a register, i.e. the introduction of a ban on the donation of human organs by a human organ donor. The bill provided the possibility for every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia to ban in writing or oral form the donation of their organs, as well as the possibility for family members to do so if a dead person for life did not declare it. As regards minor citizens, the necessary informed consent of legislators or guardians is foreseen. Also, the bill specifies the role and tasks of the Biomedicine Authority and as competent body of biomedicine at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, as well as the regulated supervision of the implementation of this law, which remained in the jurisdiction of the Biomedicine Authority. The fact that the inspection supervision of the work of health institutions in the field of human organ transplantation is precise, which is not the case in the latter law. And because of these inaccuracies, inaccuracy, indeterminateness about the conduct of inspection surveillance, a very common picture has been created in practice about where to form an inspection, in which composition and who may be the inspector. In particular, the establishment of inspection supervision under the Biomedicine Administration is educated by continuous professional supervision in the field of biomedicine, which is specific due to the daily introduction of new methods and procedures, and imposes the need for supervision by experts with the greatest experience in practice that monitors the modern achievements of science in this area. In addition to the above, the need for certain professional terms to be different and more precise is also identified, and in order to fully harmonise domestic rights in this area with EU law, as recommended by the EU, and especially because the existing law has not laid down at all the grounds for meeting the requirements of Directive 53/2010/EU on human organ quality and safety standards for transplantation. Since all the new solutions proposed by the bill refer to a substance that could not be regulated by another legal act, and given the extent of the amendments proposed, by adopting a new law on human organ transplantation, it is the only option. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present to you a proposal for a law on human cells and tissues establishing the conditions for achieving the quality and safety of human tissue cells for human use, monitoring the implementation of this law and performing certain tasks of state administration in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues aims to regulate the human area of human cells and tissues on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that it is an area of medicine that develops intensively and offers great opportunities for treatment, as well as for healthcare institutions doing these tasks, provides better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. The scope of human cells and tissues has so far been the arrangements of the 2009 Transplantation of Cells and Tissues Act, as well as the sublegal acts adopted under the law. This law is partly in line with European legislation in this area which was in force at the time of its adoption. However, after years of application of this law, a clear need has been established to improve and specify the conditions of the organisation and business in the area of cells and tissues for human use, as well as to monitor the conduct of operations in the mentioned area in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the applicable law governing the area of human cell and tissue transplants did not recognise the importance of defining and regulating jobs in human cells and tissues for human use, as well as the conditions under which these jobs can be done, which consist of donations, obtaining, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from a living or dead person, in humans, which caused poor years of practice in healthcare institutions to carry out procedures in this area, but without defining conditions at the republican level, as they will be carried out. Also, the existing law has helped to ensure that the human cell area is not done because it has not clearly defined an institution that could be a human tissue bank that would operate on the basis of clear criteria on the basis of the above mentioned tasks, which has led to the non-forming of the same. The clearer definition and precision of the conditions in this area in terms of doing business, space, equipment and staff would leave us with a long-standing bad practice, so that health institutions doing certain jobs in this area cannot apply for authorisation to carry out these tasks, so that this area in the Republic of Serbia is fully unregulated, without clear rules and precise conditions. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues first defines in a precise and clear way which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues, including any conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit. In addition, in order to develop the area of human cells and tissues according to the highest standards of medical science and practice in the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to define a register of stem cell donors, haematopoiesis that enables the finding of incompatible donors and the provision of transplant cells. The existing law has not clearly defined the existence of a register for organisational continents, as well as responsibility, and obligations of the register, which is the basis for working in accordance with the highest standards in this area. The bill regulates activities in this area, which contributes to the development and improvement of work with national donors, which contributes to the faster achievement of healthcare in this area, as well as the improvement of international co-operation. Also, the bill requires the adoption of a human organ transplant programme involving both human cells and tissues, which will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which will define clear procedures and procedures concerning the organisation of teams and the financing of the overall process of human organs and human cells and tissues. The draft law has laid down a simplified procedure for issuing authorisations to health institutions for carrying out human cell and tissue operations, as well as for the establishment of a single information system in the area mentioned, in order to establish and maintain a traceability system. One of the papers of the Bill's proposal is to simplify the process of granting consent to human tissues, avoiding unnecessary financial costs of keeping a register, i.e. the introduction of a donation ban. The bill provided the possibility for every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia to prohibit in writing or oral form the donation of their tissues, as well as the possibility of family members to do so at the time of death if the deceased person to life has not been declared in connection with this, while in terms of minor citizens, the necessary information consent of legal agents or guardians is foreseen. Also, the bill sets out the role and tasks of the Biomedicine Authority as competent bodies in the field of biomedicine at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, as well as the regulated supervision of the implementation of this law, which remained in the jurisdiction of the Biomedicine Authority. It also details the inspection of the work of health institutions in the area of cells and tissues, which is not the case in the current law, and due to these inaccuracies, inaccuracy and indeterminateness of the conduct of inspection, a very often vague picture of where the inspection, in whose composition and who may be the inspector has been formed. The establishment of inspection supervision under the Biomedicine Authority also provides for the continuity of professional supervision in the field of biomedicine, which is specific due to the daily introduction of new methods and procedures, and imposes the need for supervision by experts with the greatest experience in practice that monitors the modern achievements of science in this area. In addition to the above, the need for certain professional terms to be defined differently and more precisely, and in order to fully harmonise domestic law in this area with EU law, as recommended by the EU. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as for organising jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, which, in all stages, will, with respect to the principle of traceability, ultimately with the most comprehensive application for treatment, improve the quality of health care provided in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, i.e. with EU regulations in this area. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues will have a positive impact on the citizens, as the bill simplified the procedure for granting consent to the donation of tissues, i.e. it introduced a ban on the donation of donor tissue, and provided for the possibility for every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia to ban the donation of their tissues in writing or oral form, as well as the possibility for family members to do so if the deceased person for life has not made clear in this respect, while, as regards minor citizens, the necessary informed consent of legal advocates or guardians is foreseen. Patients on waiting lists for individual tissue transplants due to shorter waiting time for the necessary tissue that has been tested, processed, stored, distributed in accordance with EU standards. Patients awaiting stem cell transplantation, haematopiesis, as increasing the number of donors in the national registry makes the donor faster available, likely, means finding the donor is the largest within the national register and the security procedure from the national donor is the fastest. Society in general, because by establishing a clear and transparent system in the field of human cells and tissues, it will increase confidence in this system, which includes the development of altruism which is an important factor in tissue donation, because tissue transplantation is based, above all, on the principles of voluntary and unpaid giving and in order to ensure quality and safety of both cells and tissues. The increase in the number of donors in the Republic registry is significant because the donor is faster available. Health institutions carrying out the work, banks of human cells and tissues and hospitals for tissue donation, the adoption of this law will ensure the necessary conditions to enable, through a system of issuing, or withdrawing, the authorisation to carry out this activity to meet the highest standard in this area in accordance with the conditions laid down by this law and the sublegal acts adopted for the implementation of this law, as well as with EU standards. The Biomedicine Administration as a competent authority in the field of biomedicine, whose role and tasks are clearly defined by this law, as well as the supervision of the implementation of this law as an inspection supervision involving the employment of biomedicine inspectors, will also submit a report to the European Commission on the implementation of the biomedicine directive. I think it's all counted enough to know the meaning of this bill and give it your support. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. This is another vital law of life, because the fight against drug abuse is a universal principle and I believe a common struggle between all of us here and all of Serbia's citizens. Given the fact that since the adoption of the Law on psychoactive controlled substances from 2010, eight years have passed and the need for a different systemic solution has arisen in relation to the basic law, which stemmed from the need to comply with EU rules, there was no possibility that the problems dealt with by this law could be resolved in a different way than the adoption of laws on amendments and amendments to the laws. Given that these issues are regulated by law, and their amendment is the only possible amendment to that regulation, which will ensure the adoption of a legal framework for the adoption of sub-legislative rules, which will identify a way of functioning of new institutions introduced by these amendments and additions. In addition, in the process of harmonisation with EU regulations, as well as with the activities set out in the Action Plan for Chapter 24 - Justice, Freedom, Security, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to fulfil obligations related to the proposed solutions in the bill. This will ensure that data are monitored in accordance with European protocols, as well as that they are comparable to EU countries. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances provide for the establishment of a drug monitoring and drug addiction centre, aimed at monitoring the situation in the area of psychoactive substances in the Republic of Serbia and in line with the analysis of the situation based on the data provided to propose effective measures to reduce the harmful consequences caused by the abuse of psychoactive substances. Currently, the major problem is the lack of a national data collection system related to the supply and demand of drugs in the Republic of Serbia. Data that are of great importance in the demand for drugs are related to epidemiological indicators, which are related to the number of drug addicts treated, mortality, infectious diseases, HIV, hepatitis B and C, intravenous drug use and overdose. These data may indicate trends in the behaviour of users of psychoactive substances, and based on trends it is necessary to plan preventive programs that are most effective in measures to prevent the abuse of psychoactive substances. The consequences related to the problem of the lack of a data collection system are inadequate consideration of the extent of the problem, the programmes carried out in the areas of prevention and treatment of addicts, mortality and infectious diseases associated with the use of psychoactive substances, the number of toxins and overdoses. As a key consequence of inadequate consideration, the extent of the problem is the inability to propose effective measures to improve programmes for prevention and treatment of addicts from psychoactive substances. It is equally important to look at the situation in the area of drug supply, the inability to look at problems, trends in drug confiscation, types and cleanliness, drug-related criminalities, has the consequence of the inability to monitor trends in the drug market, the availability of drugs on the street, and the effective measures to reduce drug supply, especially among the younger populations that are increasingly experimenting with new psychoactive substances. It is of paramount importance to establish an early warning system for new psychoactive substances. There are an increasing number of these substances on the market, and they can easily be obtained via the Internet. These substances are not on the list of psychoactive controlled substances, which makes their appearance difficult to track. Since they are new psychoactive substances of synthetic origin, they are easily produced in illegal laboratories and their price is low. The consequences of using these substances are in, not a small number, fatal. There is great importance that drug samples can be transferred across the border to international criminal investigations. Given the lack of a drug sample transfer service, the possibility of involvement in international drug confiscation procedures is limited. The issue of the cause, the way in which psychoactive substances are stored and stored is crucial to the effective management of the substance taken away. The regulation on the destruction of taken psychoactive substances regulated the issue of the destruction of psychoactive controlled substances. However, the absence of regulations governing the storage of psychoactive substances has resulted in threatened safety in rooms where psychoactive controlled substances are taken away, but also the health hazard of officials who come into contact with an inadequately stored psychoactive substance. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the adoption of this law will achieve the following objectives. The introduction of conditions to allow the functioning of a national system for the collection of data on psychoactive controlled substances will result in an insight into the situation in the area of demand, prevention and treatment of addicts. The baseline value on which the target value is based may be set on individual data available to institutions and institutions dealing with demand reduction programmes. The introduction of an early warning system on new psychoactive substances achieves a goal that is directly related to the placing of new psychoactive substances under legal control, as well as an assessment of the risk of the use of new psychoactive substances. The final goal is to inform all health, police, customs administration, school, civil society organisation in the Republic of Serbia about the emergence of new psychoactive substances and measures to reduce the harmful consequences caused by the use of new substances. The establishment of a national contact point for the transfer of a sample of seized drugs results in effective coordination in the area of criminal investigations at international level. The provision of a legal framework for the cause and storage of taken psychoactive substances achieves a ultimate objective that refers to both safety and safety in relation to the preservation of seized substances and to the protection of health and the environment. The adoption of this law will allow for new and efficient coordination with all institutions whose competence is to implement demand reduction programmes and psychoactive substances. Information on the situation in the area of drugs at the national level, which will have a drug monitoring centre, will have positive effects to be seen in the continued improvement of measures both in the field of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, and in the area of risk assessment of new psychoactive substances, to the extent necessary to effectively reduce the supply of psychoactive substances. In order to clearly define the roles of all relevant institutions, specific protocols will be adopted to define the means of co-operation. Given that the effective reduction of the adverse consequences of drug abuse requires a coordinated multidisciplinary approach by all competent institutions, it is necessary to ensure conditions that allow for better co-operation of the ministries responsible for health, education, internal affairs, work, defence, youth and sport, culture, justice, agriculture, state administration and local self-government, finances, customs administrations and organisations, institutes, public health services and other interested organisations. The establishment of good co-operation among those ministries will ensure a good quality of data on the supply and demand of psychoactive substances at national level and allow the implementation of effective measures to reduce harmful consequences of psychoactive substances abuse. The proposed legal solution newly regulates the system for monitoring the situation of psychoactive substances. Namely, the coordinated work of all relevant institutions in the collection and analysis of data on psychoactive substances is envisaged, as well as the proposal of measures to effectively prevent harmful consequences of the abuse of these substances. The Monitoring Centre for Drugs will, based on an analysis of the data collected in the right way, see the needs of improving prevention, treatment and rehabilitation programmes. The conditions for the evaluation of these programmes will be ensured, thus applying programmes that show an effective outcome in the area of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts. The early warning system will provide a quick and efficient information exchange mechanism both within the Republic of Serbia and internationally. In this connection, conditions will be provided for the effective adoption of measures to reduce the adverse consequences of the use of new substances, especially in schools, health institutions, institutions for the execution of prison sanctions, as well as more effective control of their abuses by police, judiciary and prosecution. The Office for Transfer of Retrieval Substances will provide conditions for an effective resolution of investigations and beyond the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Ensuring conditions for the cause and storage of taken psychoactive substances will affect all entities proposing measures to carry out these activities, as well as proposing conditions for the implementation of these tasks. The positive effects of these laws will reflect on all entities dealing with demand reduction and psychoactive substances supply. First of all, the positive effects will reflect the improvement of the programme for the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, reducing the adverse effects of increased abuse of new psychoactive substances, and also measures related to activities related to the cause and safe storage of taken-off psychoactive substances. The establishment of a drug monitoring centre will ensure that the situation in the field of supply and the demand for psychoactive substances is seen, based on an analysis of the situation, measures and programmes will improve the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation programme, which will directly affect the reduction of the difference between the use of psychoactive substances, more effective and cheaper treatment of addicts, the provision of psycho-social support, in terms of involvement in the community after completion of treatment, which will significantly reduce the cost of social protection, crime rates and improve the quality of life of addicts and their families. The early warning system will ensure effective identification and control of new substances, risk assessment and timely response in the event of their occurrence, in particular in order to protect the health of users and their safety. The office for the transfer and analysis of the causes of confiscated psychoactive substances will as a positive effect have more effective control of abuse and help criminal investigations and beyond the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The provision of conditions for the sampling and storage of taken psychoactive substances will have a positive effect on the increased safety related to the storage of taken substances, as well as on the protection of health and the environment from the adverse fact of psychoactive substances. For all the above, I sincerely hope you will support this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are also facing a bill confirming the Additional Protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the International Atomic Energy Agency under the Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the Application of Guarantees concerning the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The additional protocol to the Implementation of Guarantee Agreement concerning the International Non-proliferation Treaty was signed between the Republic of Serbia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on 3 July 2009. The ratification of the Additional Protocol obliges the Republic of Serbia to keep under control all activities in the country related to the nuclear fuel cycle, aimed at peaceful use of nuclear materials. It is also binding to prevent any attempt to produce, develop or spread nuclear weapons on its territory or to assist other countries, organisations or individuals in a similar manner. The provisions of the Agreement on the Application of Guarantees under the Additional Protocol with the Agreement, the Republic of Serbia shall keep records and report all nuclear material found and used in the country, such as facilities and locations where the material is located and used, scientific and research activities related to the development of the nuclear fuel cycle, as well as the production, import and export of specially defined dual-use goods used in the nuclear fuel cycle. By ratification of the Additional Protocol and by means of a law on the validation of the Additional Protocol, as well as its implementation, the Republic of Serbia achieves both international-political and other direct national well-beings: confirming the traditional orientation of the Republic of Serbia towards the use of nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes and its determination to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, to facilitate the country's access to and exportation and technologies related to nuclear activities, to help prevent the unintended development of the network for illegal trade in nuclear materials, to establish a universal national standard for the verification of commitments undertaken to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, to advance the country in the process of achieving integrated guarantees and to open space to further reduce the number of traditional inspections, to meet international obligations and to comply with international recommendations and EU legislation. I thank you all. In short, these were laws that were on the agenda today. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41698	Thank you. The word is by Jovan Jovicic, election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41699	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have a pleasant duty and an honor to present before you today a proposal for a decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary on the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the Court on 10 and 13 July 2018. Namely, the High Council of the Judiciary is in the "Official Messenger" No. 14/18 as of 23 February 2018, announced the choice: ten judges for the Administrative Court and one judge for the Commercial Court in Novi Sad, eight judges for the Commercial Court in Belgrade, one judge for the Commercial Court in Valjevo, one judge for the Commercial Court in Zrenjanin, two judges for the Business Court in Kragujevac, one judge for the Commercial Court in the Kingdom, four judges for the Business Court in Leskovac, one judge for the Privrevac Court in Nis, one judge for the Business Court in Novi Sad, two judges for the Business Court in Pozarevec and one judge for the Business Court in Sombor. The High Council of the judiciary has established the competence, expertise and dignity of candidates who are first elected as judges under the Law on Judges, as well as the Rules on the Programme and the method of passing exams assessing the professionality and competence of candidates for judges who are first elected. The High Council of the Court of Justice also decided at a session held on 13 February 2018 on the education of the Commission of the High Council of the Court of Justice for the selection of judges for the administrative court and mentioned economic courts. On 8 May 2018, an examination was conducted for judges first elected for the Administrative Court and the Business Court in Novi Sad, and on 10 May 2018 for the other nine commercial courts. The High Council Commission of the judiciary held talks with candidates who were first elected and who submitted applications for elections for administrative and economic courts and established a list of candidates published on the website of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with Article 49. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, has obtained information and opinions on the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates, while it is in accordance with Article 50(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on judges, for candidates who come from the order of judicial assistants, has obtained an evaluation of the work. Otherwise, an eight-judge election has been announced for the Belgrade Business Court, but given the Court's burden, as well as the fact that currently according to a decision on the number of judges in the courts, 12 judges have been vacant, and that he has submitted a number of candidates, who scored five on the test, to the National Assembly's High Court of Justice, to propose ten candidates for the election of judges of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and Article 51(1). Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary was held at a session held on 6th and 13th July 2018 respectively, established a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of nine candidates for the Administrative Court and 23 candidates for economic courts, so that Boskovic Tia, Judge at the Administrative Court of Justice, Brajović Zorana, Judge Assistant to the Administrative Court of Justice, Iskić Jelena, Judicial Assistant to the Administrative Court, proposes to elect Judges for Administrative Court, Malinić Natasa, Judicial Assistant to the Administrative Court, Proposed to elect Judge for Administrative Court, Paunović Sandra, Judicial Assistant to the Administrative Court, Proposing Judge for the Administrative Court of Justice, Savic Biserka, Judicial Assistant to the Administrative Court for the Court of Justice, Stević, Stevnik Kapus Mirinskijskijskijski Sudijski Sudijski Sudijak, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Then, Đuredin Simona, a judicial assistant at the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, proposes to elect a judge for the Business Court in Novi Sad, Dukic Ana, a judge's assistant at the Supreme Court of Cassation, proposes to elect a judge for the Commercial Court in Belgrade, Medenica Marija, a judge in the Privredna Court of Appeal, proposes to elect a judge for the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, Janić Marjana, a judicial assistant in the Privredna Court of Commerce in Belgrade, Kulić Jovana, a judicial assistant in the Court of Justice in Belgrade, Gitarić Mirjana, a judge for the Court of Justice in the Court of First Instance, is proposed to elect a judge in the Privnica Court of Justice in Belgrade and Belgrade, the Court of Justice of Justice of Belgrade, the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Belgrade, the Court of Justice of Belgrade, the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Belgrade, the Court of Justice for the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Then, Aleksic Ana, a judicial assistant at the Court of Justice in Valjevo, proposes to elect a judge for the Commercial Court in Valjević, Bajić Urosevic Jelena, a judge in the Court of Justice in Belgrade, proposes to elect a judge for the Commercial Court in Zrenjanin, Milosavljević Saša, a judge in the Privredski Court in Kragujevac, proposes to elect a judge for the Commercial Court in Kragujevac, Vujanac Jelena, judge for the Court of First Instance in Jagodina, proposes to elect a judge for the Privredna Court of Justice in Kragujevac, Radovanović Ivan, a judicial assistant in the Priscian Court in the Kingdom, Mončilović Tijana, a judicial assistant in the Prislovic Court of Justice in Leskovec, proposed to elect judges for the Prislovic Court of Justice in Leslovic, Prisc, Prisc, Prisc, Prisc, Priscu, Priscu, Prislovci, Prisc, Prisc, Priscu, Priscu, Pridnik, prisc, prisc, prisc, Prid., prisc, Prid., Prid. Then, Volarevic Ninoslav, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect a judge for the Privrevec Business Court in Nis, Stojljković Srdjan, a judicial assistant at the Privrevac Court in Pozarevec, proposes to elect a judge for the Privrevec Business Court, as well as Henc Jovanka, a judicial assistant at the Privrevac Court in Pozarevec, who is proposed to elect a judge for the Privredna Court in Pozarevec. In the end, Markezic Melinda, a judicial assistant at the Sombor Court of Commerce, proposes to elect a judge of the Sombor Court of Commerce. I would like to point out that all the proposed candidates on the test consisting of a written examination and a written assignment received the highest rating, therefore, of the five which points to the conclusion that it is highly professional and qualified candidates for the judicial post. This team before it comes to judicial assistants who have been in office for many years now, or the position of judicial assistants appointed by the courts. Dear People's MPs, since you have all the biographies of the proposed candidates in your materials, detailedly explained, I would no longer take up your time, except that I can only invite you to support in the voting day all proposals of the High Council of Justice, this team rather because of the fact that the courts in which the work really took place have increased, and the reduction of the judicial staff, because it will be on the general profit of not only the Serbian judiciary but also the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41700	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today. We're moving on to the list of presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups. I give my word to Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41701	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a set of laws in the field of health. The first two laws regulate the area of treatment for patients with treatment methods that may be one of the choices or even the only choice of treatment methods. The first bill of law is about human cells and tissues. This law newly regulates the area of human cells and tissues for human use and for medical purposes. The relevant 2009 law, as well as the sublegal acts, which regulates the area of cell and tissue transplants, does not precisely define and regulate the activities and areas of human cells and tissues for human use, as well as the conditions under which this activity can be performed, which include donations, acquisitions, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from donors. So far, the conditions for carrying out this activity have not been defined at national level and it has not been specified which institution could be a bank of human cells and tissues. Now, in a precise way, they define which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues including all the conditions they have to meet to obtain a permit. The formation of a human cell and tissue bank increases safety from a microbiological point of view and from the point of view of control of the quality of the cells in the tissue. In the current method of tissue storage, it was possible to store the tissue for a shorter period of time, such as eye tissue just about 12 to 24 hours from the moment of taking. So every transplant procedure was performed as an emergency. It is of particular importance to form a cord blood bank, to introduce modern techniques for the processing of haematopoiesis stem cells, cryoconversation and the storage of haematopoiesis stem cells will provide conditions for faster finding suitable donors for the needs of patients in Serbia especially because the transplantation of haematopoiesis stem cells is a significant modern form of treatment for many acquired and innate diseases, and for some of the only successful treatments. This will certainly affect the reduction in the number of patients who are referring to treatment abroad and thus achieve significant savings in the financing of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The price of progenitor cell transplants in the Republic of Serbia is between 500m and 200m euros, and at foreign centres between 150m and 400,000 euros. Also, the applicable law did not clearly define the last registers of progenitors of haematoposis cells as organisational units, as well as the responsibilities and obligations of the register, which is the basis for working in accordance with the highest standards in this area. The new law provided for the existence of a register of progenitors of haematoposis cells, which also allows patients who do not have adequate donors within the family, and they need a stem cell transplant, to be able to find the donor, and thus to find non-compared donors. The registry was established in our country in 2005, at the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Serbia, in co-operation with the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia. Since 2012, it has been part of a world register that combines data on donors over 100 national registers. The probability of finding a donor is the largest within the national register, the procedure for providing stem cells to haematopiesis is the fastest and most economically favourable. Also, inspection surveillance has not been clearly defined. In the existing law, it is unclear where an inspection should be formed, in whose composition and who may be the inspector. After nine years of applying this law, professional world... There's still no such thing in this area. The new law entrusts supervision to the biomedicine administration as a professional and reputed institution. The inspection will now be carried out by a well-educated biomedicine inspector. The inspection supervision is primarily necessary when issuing permits to perform human cell and tissue work, but it is also necessary to carry out and monitor on a continuous basis, during the work of the institutions. The inspection is also necessary in case of suspicion, i.e. knowledge of any serious adverse event or reaction. The new legal solution also affects the reduction of costs for health institutions in the area of cells and tissues, as they will now not have to apply for renewal every five years. One of the goals of passing this law is to establish a high level of security and security in the area of human cells and tissues. The draft law is in line with European Union law, i.e. it is in line with EU directives defining the role of health institutions in this area. A health care institution or organisation unit bank at the therapeutic level of a health institution in the plan of a network of health institutions carried out by the Government, it must carry out minimum work on the processing, storage, storage, distribution of human cells and tissues, and may also carry out the tasks of obtaining, testing cells and tissues, as well as the duties of importing and exporting cells and tissues. This is important to ensure a high level of quality and uniform standards in the area across Serbia's territory, thus ensuring the same level of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Another important newspaper is the introduction of a unique information system for making up and keeping a republican waiting list for tissue recipients. It is important to unify the codes for the donor identification system and the recipient of human cells, in order to allow monitoring from the donor to the recipient. The proposed solutions simplified the process of giving consent to the donation of tissues and thus provided the possibility for every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia to ban oral or written donations of their tissues, as well as the possibility for family members to do so if a dead person for life has not declared in this regard. With regard to minor citizens, the necessary informed consent of legislators or guardians is foreseen. The bill also provides for the promotion of voluntary giving. The second law we're discussing today is the proposal for a law on human organ transplant. One of the main reasons for the adoption of this law, or the proposal for this law, is the need to increase the number of cadaveric donations, by increasing the number of organ transplants successfully done, leading to a reduction in the waiting list for human organs to be transplanted. Serbia is at the bottom of the scale by the number of human organ donors realised in Europe after death. The number of donors is between one and two per million people, while the number in Europe ranges from 25 to 30 per million. In our country, more than 2,000 people are waiting for organ transplants. It is known that a large number of Western European countries have understood the need for all citizens to be potential donors at all times. The current laws and sub-legislative acts are partly in line with European legislation in this area, so nine years after the application of this law, it was necessary to improve and specify the conditions and organisations and actions in the field of human organs transplantation, as well as to monitor the performance in this area in the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about kidney transplants, which is closest to me, because I've been dealing with this problem for decades, only 20% of the organs are taken from the dead and even 80% from the living donor. Germany has 150 to 20 donors per million inhabitants, Austria 20 to 25, Spain 35. In Serbia, in 2006, there were six donors per million, unlike members of Eurotransplant, like Slovenia, which, for example, has 25 to 30, and Croatia has as many as 40 donors per million population. Less than 10% of the people on the waiting list to get an organ during the year, due to lack of organs, don't get that organ. In patients with terminal renal insufficiency, the method of replacing renal function is applied by repeated treatment with haemodialysis or peritoneum dialysis. That's how these patients' lives are extended. But dialysis is a treatment method that costs about 16,000 euros per patient per year. In addition, dialysis patients are entitled to compensation for other people's care and assistance, which creates additional costs for the Republic Health Insurance Fund, while after transplantation the patient is able to work. The average price of kidney transplants is between 15 and 16000 euros. There are about three and a half thousand dialysis patients in Serbia. About 700 to 800 new patients are enrolled annually, and about 400 patients die, while 60 to 70% have an indication of kidney transplantation. Today, about 800 people are waiting for a kidney transplant. The average waiting for an organ is 10 years and over, in Austria up to five years. Treatment of one patient by dialysis and transplantation in the first year after transplantation costs almost the same, but in the second year the transplant price drops to 50% and in the fifth year even to 20% of it. In addition to the significant economic effect, it is certainly the most significant that after kidney transplants, patients return to normal life, are not connected to the apparatus, are fully rehabilitated and are working and able to continue to live and work. The paper in the law is to introduce the concept of assumed consent, which means that we will all be agreed that after death we will be taken from organ transplants, unless, in the event that a full-year, commercially capable giver is not oral or in writing for life, or is opposed by his family, or heirs. That model of presumed consent inflated eleven countries in Europe. The current law applied a model of informed consent, under which the citizen was given the opportunity to give consent to the donation of organs in writing and with the mandatory presence of witnesses. As evidence that they agreed to give an organ, they were given a donor card, but according to current law, even if a person had a donor card for life, family members after death could refuse to sign consent to take organ, so even if there are 130,000 people with signed donor cards, that number is reduced to 30,000. My colleagues will talk about this law in the debate. I would just like to say that this law also regulates the exercise of inspection supervision, which will be carried out by the Biomedicine Administration. The law also provides for the adoption of a human organ transplant programme, which will be unique in Serbia's territory, and also determines the distribution of institutions to those for organ donations, i.e. an organ transplant facility. Giving human organs is voluntary and without financial compensation. The use of this treatment, i.e. human organ transplants, is performed only when medically justified, or where this is the most favourable treatment method. The law requires respect for the principle of equal availability of human organs to any person who has been given an indication of a transplant without discrimination. Of course, it is not enough to pass only a quality law, but it is necessary through a national strategy to provide a sufficient number of donor hospitals, but also a sufficient number of trained experts, anesthesiologists, neurosurgeon, electrophysiologists, who can diagnose brain death. This bill is fully in line with EU directives. The third law on the agenda today is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Psychoactive Substances, controlled substances. The production and study of psychoactive controlled substances is unfortunately the most dominant and profitable form of crime in the world. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia, given its geographical location, is used as a transit area for drug trafficking. High availability of marijuana in the local market is due to Serbia being on the central Balkan route for smuggling marijuana. Lately, we've been facing an increase in abuse and the number of synthetic drugs in our country. We are witnessing, unfortunately, several deaths of young people due to the abuse of these drugs. In order to protect young people from the use of synthetic drugs and new psychoactive substances, continued preventive activities must be carried out. For these reasons, it is also important to monitor new phenomena and processes in the area of production and illegal drug trafficking that are increasingly destroying human health and lives, especially young generations. The proposed law defines the concept of a new psychoactive substance, and it is also predicted that the government educates a commission for psychoactive controlled substances, in order to bring professional attitudes into line in the field of psychoactive controlled substances made up of representatives of the Ministry of Health, Education, Home Affairs, Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, Youth and others. It is significant to establish a national drug monitoring and drug addiction centre, which performs tasks relating to the early warning system in order to quickly exchange data on production, trade, use and risks of new psychoactive substances and to respond in time to prevent their adverse effects. The Ministry of Interior shall determine the national contact point for the transmission and analysis of samples of psychoactive controlled substances seized. The minister shall adopt a solution setting out a reference laboratory for the identification and examination of psychoactive controlled substances. This laboratory performs early warning tasks on the emergence of new psychoactive substances and without delay informs the Ministry of Health, as well as which again informs the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. The law also determines how psychoactive controlled substances are destroyed. After the confiscation, if they cannot be used as raw materials for production or other purposes, as well as for the way in which they are treated or sold, if they can be used as raw materials for production or other purposes, the funds acquired in this way are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We believe that the amendment of this law will significantly contribute to the reduction of drug distribution, as well as the use of psychoactive substances. I also appeal to all the competent authorities to take all measures that can prevent drug abuse and its severe consequences, especially after a young generation. The SPS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41702	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the honored guests of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have really many points and it's hard to talk about everything, I'm going to look back at a few. First of all, I'm going to start because I'm a nurse, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm going to start with these laws that, since the appointment of judges, you might be surprised, but our MP group supports and we think that all the proposals for the selection of new judges who are from the ranks of judges in their majority who are quite experienced people, even say colleagues with whom I have consulted and too experienced which is certainly good. It's actually the only time that judges choose when it comes to first choice. From what I've been told, there seems to be no one from the Justice Academy, you correct me. Two? Okay. Now, we certainly have confidence in the proposals signed by Judge Milojevic, whom we highly appreciate. I would now move on to the laws that we have, so-called. Medical laws, represented here by Minister Loncar, and I'll make a few comments. First of all, by reading these laws, I couldn't help but feel that even here in these laws, it was quite centralization, accumulation of power into the hands of the Minister of Health. In the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, we have 59 members, and that is where the minister's authority for everything and everything is established. In particular, we have 18 members where the minister mostly prescribes and brings something. I'll read some of the ones that I've taken out, these are the conditions in terms of frame, space, equipment, system, quality and other conditions for doing jobs in the field of human cells and tissues. Then, these are national quality standards, closer conditions on the work of the register of donors in terms of space, equipment and staff, how to run the republican waiting list, closer conditions and ways to select the most appropriate recipient as well as the allocation of taken human cells and tissues, the means and conditions of selection and assessment of the health status of the living donor of human cells and tissues. Then there it is, the minister determines the content and form of the consent form for the giving of cells and tissues of the living donor and of the cells and tissues as well as the forms of withdrawal of the consent. Then, the minister determines how to destroy, or use, remaining human cells and tissues after treatment procedures, as well as the programme to promote voluntary donation of human cells and tissues. Also, the minister appears as a second-degree body in appeal proceedings. So here we could say that the minister is a real "one man show". In the human organ transplant law where we have 58 members, we have 20 members who also put power, absolute power into the minister's hands. One of them is the Department of Medicine, where the minister appoints both directors and assistants of the Medical Administration that suit him, so this is a pretty good centralization. Of course, there is also the possibility of corrupting some members, which is, for example, the most impressive provision is in Article 41. I quote, among other things, the Law on Human Tissues: “The Director of the Biomedicine Administration gives permission for each individual case of imports, or exports of human cells, estimating the justification of exports, or imports.” Now, I wonder and expect Mr. Minister to answer, on what criteria will the Biomedicine Director appreciate the justification of exports or imports of human cells? If we go back to this previous thesis, you as the health minister, to whom he is responsible for your work, will do so, and then I ask you to say what are the criteria that you have prescribed, which are you, or your appointed director of the Biomedicine Authority? Also, as far as the Biomedicine Administration is concerned, it says – the director of the Biomedicine Administration is issuing a license for human cell and tissue jobs, as well as for human organ transplants, and can take it away indefinitely and indefinitely. Here, too, somehow I see a door opening for the possibility of corruption. Both laws mention inspection oversight of performance. It says – a activity that is performed continuously and at least once every two years. So, what's continuous once every two years or it's continuous... What does that continuous inspection surveillance mean? Inspective surveillance for such a delicate area once every two years, it seems to me that it's too small. As for this second law, or the Transplant Act, I must immediately tell you that I have worked as part of the organ transplant team as a psychiatrist, because of course psychological support. If you're asking me if I'm up for a transplant, yes, of course. Do I want to promote donor service? Yes, of course. What is most problematic about this law is Article 23, which says that every citizen of Serbia will be a potential organ donor unless it explicitly opposes it throughout his life. We know that even in the countries that are members of the Eurotransplant, we have so-called The assumed consent that is now legally proposed, and which is against which is me and my parliamentary group. So you have one Austria, Croatia, Spain where the assumed consent is legally resolved. But there are also countries that are members of Eurotransplant, such as Germany or Italy, where, for example, we have no assumed consent. As I prepare for this conversation today, that is, this debate, I have seen that there are countries that advocate so-called. "opt-in", which would be if there was a written consent of the man himself to get a donor card and thus become a donor and "opt-out", i.e. this assumed consent. The "Opt-in" countries, for example, are the United States where the most transplants are made, and Germany is also, and "opt-out" are these countries that I mentioned. Our MP group has also requested amendments. We believe that this assumed consent is very dangerous, because it can pave the way for corruption, it can pave the way for the mafia. I'm not saying this because I'm paranoid, so now I think someone's going to run around Serbia, kill people and sell organs. Mr. Minister, you see, we still have an unsolved problem with missing babies. We can't do anything about it, the children were stolen, taken from the maternity ward. It wasn't the workers or the peasants. It was, unfortunately, done by our colleagues, from our esnaf, doctors and other health workers. Of course, most people, the vast majority of the people in our esnaf are great good people, dedicated to their work, but enough to have one, two or two of those, and then the whole thing falls into your water. People have been waiting abroad for five or ten years for an organ, even in those countries where you have a lot of transplants and where the transplant is one of the most normal, not to mention routine medical procedures. But you have a situation where one Rockefeller had seven transplants, and that's no less than seven times his heart has been transplanted. So, the problem is how to believe the honest intentions of everyone at all times, especially if we know that people are corrupt and that we haven't created a system that could provide one complete security for people who are organ donors, especially with this assumed consent. You know very well that now with this system where every patient knows everything, where his blood type is known, this first elimination factor, and that's a blood group in a potential organ donor, and if known, it opens the door to corruption somewhere. I'm afraid it could really happen that in our country, which is quite unregulated and where there's a lot of crime and organ transplants, which in itself is an extremely human and extremely noble thing, turns into a safari to people unless we have some system that's really going to stop it. In the end I would have ended up, Freud said – nothing is by accident, so here is no coincidence that we are talking today, and tomorrow we will talk about these laws, including this Transplant Law. Tomorrow, here, President Vukic meets with Hashim Thaci who, also, according to those reports and findings, had something to do with the transplant, but Serbian authorities, in the "yellow house". Of course, no one says he was the one who was in charge, but he certainly turned his head on the other side. I wonder if President Vukic will mention what was happening in the "yellow house" to the gentleman, or so on. President of the so-called Kosovo tomorrow at that meeting? Unfortunately, we haven't experienced it, this is the ninth special session, we're talking about health laws, it's important because human lives are at stake, but it would be good and it would be nice and it would be fair if we had a session dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41704	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41705	I thank you for seeing these laws. My first impression is that, as far as the law is concerned, in the first part where you were talking about being less, more agreeable with those laws, the only dilemma you have is that some things are signed by the minister, someone has to sign, so you can't have things that no one will sign, then they wouldn't be valid, and I think that's quite clear. What you said about biomedicine, the election minister, the minister suggests, the government chooses, appoints a director and people in biomedicine. You asked the question that the conditions, how will be determined, what can be imported from the organs, to be exported and the rest, I have to tell you that the profession has set, precisely prescribed strict rules that can be done and there are strict procedures taken from the experience of those countries that have the best experience and have the least problems with that. So it's one thing that's strictly professional, which has nothing to do with politics or anything, because the simple goal is to help someone who's waiting for an organ if there's a chance, if you can import, we're specifically thinking about a cornea or something, we have a lot of these people waiting and we have countries that have extras and corneas, and it would mean a lot to our people to do that and to solve their vision problem. So the waist, specifically the waist prescribed and defined all these things that must be done. You asked the next question about inspection and inspection. Let me get this straight, the inspection's going on every two years, the inspection's going in, if that's all right. Every six months, institutions are required to report. If any objection occurs at the same time, the inspection shall be issued. This is, then, only when there's no problem, when that process is going, when the reports are good, when there's no objections, but then it comes out for two years to control everything. So, there, that's the essence of the story. As far as consent is concerned, I think it's a lot simpler now, you've had the procedure to go sign consent that you will, so that you have a witness, so you can get a donor card, so you can get into the system. Now, let me get this straight. After this law, if adopted, anyone can sit down and write directly to the Biomedicine Authority -- I'm not in agreement with that, I'm the one, and my data is you and at the same time he's seduced as someone who's not agreed to be a donor tomorrow, in case he meets the conditions for it. So that's one look, that's the simplest thing on a piece of paper you send your data and you say you're not in agreement, or verbally to get to the Biomedicine Authority, if you're here somewhere, to make that statement that you're not agreeing, and there's no problem anymore. We just have a problem. I'm glad you're saying you've been on the transplant team and I hope you've seen how much that means to people who've been waiting for years, who's the only chance of living, so when they get that organ. So these people have over 2,000 in Serbia who are waiting and simply need these people to come out and tell them what the state is doing, because their only chance is to get an organ and survive. That's the only reason we're working. You mentioned missing babies. In the last few years, I don't know how many years we haven't had any missing babies. Absolutely agreed to examine everything 30, 40, 50, 60 years ago. We don't have a problem. We give all the support to examine it and to determine, to once put an end to it. But what's important is we did everything that's necessary so that it can't happen now and with double records, and with protocols and with cameras, with all that stuff, and I'm glad that these things don't happen and that there's no insinuation that somewhere in Serbia can happen today. We learned some lessons. I repeat, consensual and all support to examine it. You asked the question that there's a possibility that there might be some kind of abuse. You were on the transplant team. I mean, if you just put the movie back a little bit, just remember how many people it's necessary to be, that it participates in that you, in order to do both the implantation and the transplant. It's a minimum of 20 or 30 people, if you want that process to work. If you think you can do such a thing in Serbia that 20, 30 people are involved in it, I now most responsibly say it is impossible. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić throws.) I'll get to that. I'm talking about this law and what's going on. I'm talking about one yet orderly society where it's not realistic that such things happen and one of the reasons why we're doing this, we're putting everything in one system so that by chance there can't be any breach of procedure or anything and anyone who even reads it, it's only superficially clear when they see it's not real that it's happening. First you commended America, that it had an extraordinary system, and then you said Rockefeller had transplanted his heart seven times. Is it a good system in America or is Rockefeller bad? What do you define yourself for? Just decide which one it is. So it has nothing to do with us. It's part of the system. You mentioned that blood type is enough. You were on the team, you know it's not enough to have someone's blood type so you could know if someone's a donor, to break all the illusions that people don't think there's something. Simply, the law is passed to create a system and that it works on the case of those countries that have experience and have no problems. As for the "yellow house", what I can certainly tell you, the president will insist on it, at no point will we give up on it, as far as it is possible to have an impact on the people who are going to lead the procedure tomorrow. As far as I know, this investigation has already been carried out and that everything is ready to be done. I'm sure it can't be hidden and it'll come out in the light of the day what it is and how it was done. In any case, neither the president nor the government will give up on it, will strongly insist on getting rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41706	Thank you, Minister. The word has a People's Messenger, Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go, Dr. Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41707	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and cabinet members, distinguished guests, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course I want to start by reviewing these medical laws. Since I come from the medical branch, I want to stress the real importance, the value and the moment to pass these laws. First of all, the laws that are before us today and which I believe will be adopted unanimously are a signal that our society is ready to show the highest level of humanity, but it is also a message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the state is trying to strengthen this extremely important institute – the organ transplant institute as a standard therapeutic procedure. Gentlemen, the transplant is a therapeutic option. Always remember that you know and always go from that, which is intended for the most severe patients, according to the rule of young people who are thus extended to life or who are thus allowed to continue life. Gentlemen, these are mostly young people, mostly with congenital diseases, neither guilt nor debt, and who can only get a chance this way. I'm sorry, but what I heard earlier, I don't think he's on the right track, and I'm going to give an argument for some of the arguments we just heard. In fact, I think the previous law was very bad, that it practically did not respect one mentality of the population, a complete Balkan and that the just assumed consent of the donor was something that was absolutely wrong and that led Serbia to be the last on the EU donor list. It's something that has endangered and I believe prevented the healing of a large number of young people and patients. There's a lot of prejudice and misunderstandings that follow the transplant. The polemics last for the last 50 years, since it was introduced as a therapeutic principle of solid organ transplants. They appear in the world, especially with us. I also think that the best quality of this law is just the introduction of a model of assumed consent, and the abolition of so-called. Informed consent, so-called Donor cards that have yielded a defeating result in our country. The number of donors per million people currently stands at five in Serbia. It is thought of cadaver donations, meaning situations where brain death occurred, while in countries that apply this other system that we want to install today in our law, is 35, even 40%, in countries in an environment like Croatia, Spain, etc., which is an extremely bad thing. You know that we've been on a regular campaign for the last few years, that almost every other journal in RTS, means the most watched show that currently has brings up a story about Donorship and that it still doesn't produce results. It is not clear to me that I hear someone being against this kind of vision that has produced so many good results in Europe, so Croatia had the same problems until it introduced this system. The EU countries also had, so today the leaders are in the field. There's absolutely no argument, unless you approach Freudian to get some things out of your subconscious that shouldn't be an argument. In any case, 30 patients die each year in Serbia for transplants. I'm a cardiologist, I know, and I often have cases of people waiting for a heart transplant for which it's the only intervention that can save a life. One such experience, one conversation with one such patient would be enough for you to, without any thought whatsoever, look at only the results of the surrounding states, support one such law. I'll tell you that, for example. In 2010, we had 100 transplants. We mostly have transplants from living people, very little from cadavers, what we are about to change with this law, but that our Clinical Centre of Serbia is doing 90% of all its transplants from cadvers. What makes us think that our doctors, our teams are absolutely ready. I believe in the ego that even in some areas they are more advanced than most doctors who do transplants in the environment. If we know 2,000 people are currently waiting for a transplant in Serbia, we understand why this legal solution should be adopted. For example, in 2015, there were only 15 donors and we were able to perform 32 kidney transplants, seven liver transplants, five hearts. Unfortunately, in 2016 for the reasons we're talking about today, only one heart transplant was performed. It's something that this law is going to change, and I really want to say that the most qualitative part of this law is to just move on to the assumed consent of donorship, or that we're all donors, unless we define ourselves differently. I don't see more humane things and more necessary things in this society than such altruism, one such solidarity and one such support. On the other hand, there won't be any manipulation. I don't think you have any and no one should have a dilemma in Serbia, because it continues to be held by the Institute that after death the family can ban the transplant and no right that existed in the past law is abolished, simply we people are like that in nature, we're not up-to-date, and if someone probably has a wish, he doesn't apply and become a donor and become busy with his jobs, busy things to some other people who are important to him at that point, he doesn't become a donor. This is the way and the mechanism to expand the capacity of the donor and raise it to the highest level. I've also heard one thing before that I don't want to accept, which is to resent the minister being host to his house. If you'll excuse me, if you're looking for responsibility, then give me jurisdiction. If we criticise the minister first, I think it's most natural that he is responsible for everything that is done in his ministry. I see nothing more natural than for the minister to be informed of all the things that are happening, about all the groups, and to sign all the ordinary documents they bring or decide on, that's enough for me to know that he controls all the things. In the end, this leadership and presidential system proved to be the best model, and I just think it's a model that can reduce corruption by attaching responsibility and jurisdiction, because if focus and control is on one man, and we control all of that one man, I think it reduces the possibility of corruption and abuse that could happen. The aim of this very good law is primarily to increase the cadaveric and number of successfully performed transplants and human organ transplants. I said they're mostly cadaver transplants in the world, and that's something to be commended. Once again to return to that number, 2,000 people are currently waiting for a transplant in Serbia and 30 people are mostly young, each year dying. Gentlemen, that is quite enough information to turn us around to change something, and I will remind you that this law is absolutely in line with EU laws and with the health systems of most European countries that have achieved the greatest success in the field of transplants. We must very quickly raise the number of transplants from five to ten, because it is one of the basic and higher, because it is the first prerequisite for us to enter the Eurotransplant and participate in international co-operation, exchange of experiences, and also exchange of patients. Today, you're waiting for a corneal transplant, about 1,000 people, for a kidney transplant of 1,000 people, for a heart transplant of a really large number of people, for a large number of people, for a large number of people, for most of them are congenital diseases, and that's something we need to change. The hardest thing to do is to perform a liver transplant, which the minister knows well, because it's his area. These are the longest interventions, most demanding, but in this field I am convinced that we have the best experts in both Nis and Belgrade and that we are at the top of European liver transplants for experience and operational capacity. Unfortunately, heart transplants are also difficult, but most of the time it happens to reject potassium, but after longevity, I have to say that kidney transplants are something that lasts the longest. I've had experience at the clinic to have a patient who's had a kidney transplant for 25 years, lives perfectly neat, with one normal life. I remind you of the data, which she and her colleague stated, that there are indeed huge amounts of money being allocated to these patients and that by transplanting, we will facilitate the health system to be more competitive and reduce the costs that all Serbian citizens have. You know that one intervention costs, if in private management transplants are performed, and I have such patients who come for maintenance into our clinical system, into our health system, and they paid for a transplant in India, Russia, China, etc., that usually liver transplants cost from 130 to 150 000 euros. It means that it's big sums, and that in our health care system, only by increasing the number of donors can we really meet many of our citizens. We are fighting the white plague with concrete proposals, and I think this is also a way to preserve our population and solve their health problems. The proposal for a law on the application of human cells and tissues, on the other hand, defines health institutions which can apply for the exercise of activity in the areas of cells and tissues and which may be banks and including any conditions they have to fulfil in order to obtain a licence. And one law and the other in a very good way make the division of those institutions that will be donors, so-called. I think the donor institution can be all those hospitals, all those institutions that have an intensive care unit. So almost all of Serbia can be covered and can donate organs. It is a way to expand donor capacities in Serbia. It is also determined that the territorial institutions, those of our five significant territorial institutions, clinical centres continue to be transplant centres. The roles are clearly distributed, and I think any abuse is impossible. We just heard the minister say 20 to 30 people. I don't think less than 100 people can participate in one transplant act, because that's where the coordinators come in, so the informationists connect, so the legal services, so the different codes are read, so the people who take the organs are alarmed, so the teams that are going to be doing the transplant are being prepared, so those who are going to do the transport need special conditions for transport, because the speed here is very important, and I think that hundreds of people who cover these processes is the best guarantee that there is no abuse. In the end, I don't know if you've seen it, but the law decidently states that if a doctor notices that there may be some kind of evil intentions, or some possibility that this organ has been paid, that he can stop the procedure at any time. So, with us, the transplant is free, completely solid, we introduce a unique information system in which everything will be clear and transparent by medical indications, by necessity and other things, absolutely humane and in a way that is absolutely transparent. So I have to say that I would be disappointed if we didn't have absolute support for this law, as a doctor, because I think these laws are antipolitical, that there are no policies in them, that they are strictly professional and that they should be supported, by every reasonable man to whom any responsibility is given in this country. The third law that we're talking about psychoactive substances is also, right now, very important to us, we're going into step with time. I will also point out that the editors of this law had a consultant from European institutions, who they say was very effective and helped make this law very modern and very effective. It is likely that the most important thing is that we introduce a drug monitoring centre, because every day more and more substances are being used as drugs, with an increasingly difficult outcome and increasingly poor effects on the health of people who consume. This early warning system is crucial and I am glad that we are establishing it, although I know that the monitoring centres have existed in some way so far, but this legislative framework is probably the best and should continue. Because not knowing that a certain substance can be extremely toxic drugs, its appearance on a particular field, and monitoring itself at all, is not the end of us, but it is the information that will really help us predict what can happen and that in time we will warn about the possible consequences, because this system will be related, not only to medical institutions, but also to the police, the judiciary, and that they will exchange information with each other in order to reduce psychoactive substances, or their abuses on the ground. The transfer service and analysis of confiscated psychoactive substances will as a positive effect have more effective control of abuse and help in criminal investigations and even beyond the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Ensuring conditions for the cause and storage of taken psychoactive substances will have a positive effect on increased safety, as a protection of health and the environment due to the harmful fact of psychoactive substances. In every sense, I conclude, these laws are very good and we from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia are particularly motivated to come into force as soon as possible and in the voting day we will give them absolute support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41708	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. The word has Professor Dr. Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41709	I don't think there's any reason, of course every MP and every MP group decides for themselves not to support these three laws. They are useful for built Serbia. It could be said that the first two laws are essentially late. We do not, unfortunately, have developed this organ donor system. There is one resistance in the public, and I suppose that with this lateness we bring it, it's actually conditioned by the view of society that it's something that, as I would say, in no way by the profession, I blame her above all, meaning our fellow doctors, health institutions, in some way enlightened people, I have no other word than to enlighten people medically, as we used to say, educated them to understand the benefits of it. Because, of course, regardless of the relatively small number of these organs and the relatively small number of people who accept it, it is the last tool that often saves people's lives or restores their eyesight or something like that. So it shows what is the basic human function of medicine, it's to restore health, improve health, and allow a person to function in society. I am sorry that there is no such a general attitude in our society and of course there are countries and Europe and the world where it is very developed and very many people have these cards and very many people tell you, for example, young people, that they are ready or decided that in the event of an accident or something else they will be able to do. Especially when you see it, you hear it as a family attitude in general. So when these two laws are passed, I'm talking about the first two laws that are practically one whole, it would be necessary, it's always missing with us, it's the law, you know the Assembly actually has two functions, the first one always meets, but the second one very rarely. It's one thing to pass laws, the other to control law enforcement. The assembly also has a control function that is often not performed, traditionally in Serbia, not in this government but at all. So it would be interesting to monitor how much this law actually changed things, but it won't be possible without some organized social action, primarily the Ministry of Health or some similar institutions. So, it is necessary, I cited the example when we spoke to the board that for a number of years, during Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, there was one action against smoking, we have a high percentage of smokers, she didn't give any results, but the idea was good. So, it was the idea that through billboards, actions, ads in newspapers, to try to reduce the number of smokers. I have a very unpleasant idea that every country, the authorities in this country don't care much about it, although the health consequences of smoking are catastrophic, but, of course, the budget is very full of tobacco taxes. There were moments in the 1990s, when our budget, as it was, was charged almost 100% from the tobacco tax and the fuel tax, to excise duties. Believe it or not, at least half the budget was filled in these two ways, because there was no financial discipline in the state. It is necessary, however, to have this one action, and I am sorry that it is not in the package, I do not know in what legal sense it could be, but with the adoption of the law, one permanent action to explain to people, especially young people, it is no shame, it is something very humane, one action that donorship is extremely humane and that you are actually helping someone to survive or that they can function or that they can be a full citizen of society, and not be disabled and young goes into retirement, to give back life that would really be worth it. So I'm the only one who misses it. You will say: "Well, the law cannot deal with it." I know, but then the law won't change itself, the Ipso fact, so you have the law, the law is the law. As for the third law establishing that monitoring, it's totally fine, it's useful. In the light of the law, the data was very interesting to me, since I know more about it. Some data is profoundly accurate, some data seems to me that we might be able to argue, it doesn't matter, let me say it right now, or advocate such a debate. I think the drugs are cheaper, I think the start of taking some drugs at a much lower age. There's some information out there that's got me a little confused. I don't know where they came from, I guess they were obtained from some research, but that research wasn't entirely or not on a large enough, or even a quality sample. Anyway, that's not the point. The point is that we have a constant increase in addiction disease and that they start all early and that we're on the route of passing drugs and that we can't close ourselves in front of those eyes. Then they set up, that's what I was talking about, two priorities. First, if you have court proceedings accusing people of being very serious, as I would say, a role in drug distribution, drug imports, so as we've seen, for the first time ours appear as buyers in Colombia, directly. So, they make their own transatlantic relationship, they take it there, they buy it, because heroin has replaced cocaine as a finer, by the looks of it, even though my fellow psychiatrists know perfectly well that the abstinence crisis in the cocaine user is worse than heroin, it's much more aggressive, much more vital, that's what colleagues who deal with it directly. Such processes can't be a thing of tabloids and shoved somewhere on the seal of society. Then you set an example for society, that it wants to deal with these great importers and smugglers. You can't drag the case of Saric into a standoff with various obstructions, which are once a matter of the judiciary, but society can't pretend to be indifferent because there are serious political connotations of the case. It's one drastic case of hyenas and criminals. They're hyenas, please. I choose my words very carefully. They're hyenas who want to poison children to make enormous profits. I have absolutely no sympathy for human grams for people who do so. They want to make extra profits and they don't care at all about health and well-being in this country. They're the killers of our children. So, I'm just saying, because anyone who's worked with addiction diseases knows how hard it is and how long it takes and how much of it, the family's efforts to make an addict, a man, or a young man, work on a disease of addiction, to get rid of it, to make him better. It's a process that lasts and never essentially ends, is it what we're talking about? healing, never healing. So it's a special kind of disease. So I don't have any sympathy for human beings. I find it necessary to punish him drastically, in accordance with the law. However, our society has no priority. Of course, colleagues from the Ministry of Health will say, "What do we have to do with it?" Right, you don't have in any essential sense, but society has a state, and so does a government that runs a country's policy. It takes priority of the Ministry, when you're refining those laws, when you're building that center, when you're sending data, when you're checking out which drugs came up, when you're taking particular care of new synthetic drugs, it's all right, but we don't have any organised social action. We had "Stop - Drugs No" etc., but these are actions that must be permanent and sometimes you must at some point... When the goddesses appeared, only then began to react to the Ministry and the Serbian Medical Society, when the thing came to the duvar, when the prominent people, so-called. Reputable, to say that vaccination is dangerous, that people are going to get infected, etc. So, one of the basic flows of medicine in the 20th century was found dangerous for our children, only when the percentage of vaccinated children began to drop drastically, including Belgrade, where the largest number of educated people were essentially, and then you grabbed your head. You don't have to wait. It's an absolute increase in disease of addiction in Serbia, don't force me now, I could take from my colleagues who deal with this data, there's something called, it's a professional name, a dark number, and we can always have a debate about it. So you have what's registered, it's usually more in the health care system than in the police. There are fewer numbers in the police, and the police are taking drug addicts and drug dealers who aren't always addicts, they can be and they don't have to be, there are those who aren't even addicts, the police have that data. The health system has bigger numbers because, of course, a doctor comes in and asks for help, asks for treatment and the health system has bigger. But it's even bigger that number than the one that has the health system. We don't know what that number is. The dark figure is three to five times larger than the one registered, so it is at least three times larger, sometimes in some society and five times larger. This means that it is certainly a large number and all the research in us and the world, above all in Europe, that the first drug consumption and the start of addiction begins very early, very often not only the older classes of primary school, but it is now going even below. So we have a lot of reasons as a society to have one continuous action against it. It's not doctoring, it's not a social model of a healthy society, it's not true. All societies know it undermines the foundation. I must warn you, I signed those first BIA laws in my day, given the circumstances, when it was made. One of the BIA's tasks is to fight in the new conditions against, it is no longer the political police as it was in our country for 60 years, one of its basic tasks is that drugs, drug distribution, drug imports and drug cultivation, because it destroys a social being, it seriously undermines, you have countries that have such a problem that is practically insolvent. So, once again, I would ask that every time we adopt laws, someone will say – well, this is the Assembly now, we adopt the law, it's important that the law passes and will pass, I will vote for it, for all three laws, but it's important that somewhere in the law we install what is necessary, and that we raise social awareness and that people in some way, if I can say so, education that donorship is useful, and that disease addictions are disastrous and, as a rule, not only destroys addicts but also his family, and that fundamentally. So it's never just an addict, it's usually his immediate family, and I'm not talking about all the other conventions, if he works, at work, at school, etc. I miss it when we have these big themes, what we built, highways, bridges, buildings, okay, all that's necessary, but I miss these things that fix our society in some essential sense, too. So we can't deal with vaccination when they start so-called. Seriously respected people are whispering in unlimited amounts that vaccination is dangerous, although it is one of the greatest achievements of the 20th century medicine. I said – then do not call the milk pasteurized, since it is in honor of Louis Pasteur, who is the father of the vaccine, then use another word. To thank Pasteur, we said pasteurized milk. People don't even know that word's from his name. So let's thank him for that great contribution. Then, I said, don't use that word either, since Pasteur was obviously a bastard, who did something to hurt the Serbian people in particular, it's usually the craziest thing, that the vaccines that specifically target our population are being imported here, it's already at the level of conspiracy and paranoia in a cleaner form. So, once again, I don't see a reason, a political one can always vote, it's really his choice, but in itself these laws are useful to our society, the only thing I've ever seen is for the first two to be late, but you know what they say – better ever than ever. So it's good to have those laws today. What concerns me and I would like to, I end up really, is that in our society more people accept the view that donating an organ is very humane. I've recently watched a film that could be based on a true story, I think even if it was, how one man is brought by a young man and he doesn't know who he is, I think he's marrying a daughter, a young man comes along, and then he says, you don't know who he is, he says, I don't know. He says to him, "Well, this is a young man who has been transplanted to the heart of your son, and he has come to your daughter's wedding. He looks at him and says, "You're like a son to me now. You have my son's heart." So you're saving someone's life sometimes, saving someone's health, and I don't know what more a man can do in life than help someone else. I know from talking to people around me, no one's going to attack, but people say, well, well. Somehow they have no awareness that it's a terrible human gesture and it's a lot, if I can help someone like this at some point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41710	Thank you, Professor Korach. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41711	Thank you. Most of it, I couldn't agree more with you. We have a problem of consciousness with us. I don't know if you've noticed that whenever transplants start, whenever the number of donors increases, we suddenly have texts in the media that there's been an abuse somewhere in a country, that something happened, and then it becomes a topic. But we simply have to be stronger than that and succeed. As for the other thing, tracking the effect, it's going to be extremely simple. Because you'll simply have every year the number of donors, the number of transplants that have been done, and there you can't see the effect. Is he good or bad, like this or something, but every year at the end of the year, he comes out. Camping, I thank this rts, which has been running the campaign for many years every week, I thank the companies that got involved last year and which in the most serious way have taken the experience of other countries and worked, but obviously it was not all good enough. We've come to 90 and some transplants, which is a much larger number than 2016, but that, we all agree, is not enough. I think this should have an effect and we all have to work to change that consciousness, otherwise, the result won't be good. We can change all these laws every day and agree something, but if people don't realize that this is the only way for thousands of people to survive, to stay with their families, none of it. You can have a lot of money, you can try to go to another country, with a lot of money, try to do a transplant, but there's not enough organs there either, and it's not a guarantee that you'll get on that waiting list and it'll be done. Therefore, I ask you to understand everything. We don't have a choice. We need to get out in front of these people and tell them what we did, how we did, whether they survive or not. It's the only way to look at this from that side, to get everything else out of the way. Because if we do other things, we go into some width, the essence will get lost, and there will be no effect. As far as drugs are concerned, you can see what's done and how it's done. Now we've had this action for Ehit, we've started this campaign, a new commission formed by the government, and I can tell you that the effects have been excellent. An extremely small number, we would've liked most if it hadn't been for the people who spoke to the doctor about it, but, literally, we had one more serious case that ended up in the hospital because of a combination of alcohol and psychoactive substances. According to the police, there were no incidents on Exit. There's a drug seized in town. She didn't even get into Exit. I think we'll get on with it. As with the festivals, I think we'll continue and when it comes to sports events, domestics primarily, derby, international games, football, basketball, or anything else, where young people are in the risk group. We'll start with that -- sports -- yes, drugs -- no. What I agree with, which is that we're going to start with children of five years of age, with their education on various drugs, psychoactive substances, because it's an assessment of experts who deal with it as a period of time to start with the education of those children. We will have absolutely no mercy or understanding for those who sell drugs and who simply kill our children for a few thousand dinars. And I'm taking this opportunity to tell them they better find another job. Don't do that anymore, sell those drugs to the kids, because we won't have any mercy on them. They can just do anything else, but they can't do it, because we won't watch it and we won't tolerate it. I must remind you, you mentioned the antivaccinal lobby and everything else, why we came into this situation. While this was going on and when the vaccine was falling, just return, have the opportunity to return, one of the first news was gathering antivaccinal lobbies. That's how the news started. And not only did they start with that, but they put the kids in the front row. No one answered, no one wanted to react and say. When we told the media that they weren't doing it, that it had nothing to do with anything, it turned out to be some kind of media policy interference. Just get the movie back and see what it was like. That was breaking news. And without talking about media space for some of them, I don't even know what to call them, people who have nothing to do with medicine, I don't even know what they're dealing with, who gave themselves the right to comment on how to vaccinate and not vaccinate. There was no reaction either. The parents had to sue the children and the doctors, so only then did it stop a little bit, and only now do we have the effects of that. So I'm just telling you the facts that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41712	Thank you, Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation we have in the Serbian Parliament has been repeated for a long time, and this is the merger of various agenda points in a single debate. That is what is devastating for Serbian parliamentaryism. It seems that in the ruling majority, there is an opinion that the quality of parliament is that the more laws it brings in the shortest possible period and that parliament should only be a flow water heater to bring the debate together. We have a situation today to discuss three very important laws in the field of health, human cells and tissues, human organs transplants and the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, and besides that we choose judges, we choose both members of the delegation and members of the Commission for the control and enforcement of criminal sanctions and so on. In order for the National Assembly to be able to carry out its work in quality and the MPs to propose proposals for laws and amendments, it must be interrupted with such practice, organised and held by laws that are in the same area so that they can all devote themselves to the maximum of quality work, not by the principle of as many laws as possible in as little time. So what we have after that comes out, and that is the war on amendments, where it comes to times in particular just to talk eventually about one law and have a situation where the ruling majority then submits a large number of amendments. It is not the quality of the Assembly, it is not parliamentaryism. It is a mockery of parliamentaryism and it is the full possession of parliament by the executive government, that is, the government. Also, the Commission formed by the Council of Europe, GRECO, where we need to adopt their... as we are on our way to the EU, etc., they, as the anomalies of the Serbian parliament, have found that, apart from what is being discussed at the time of one debate and that the laws are being discussed by an emergency procedure, it should be an exception, not a rule. They should be under regular procedure and leave enough time, not today and 24 hours earlier, to report the meeting. Who can do quality work that way? We have only this much time, and we have a very important topic about the Transplant Act, and especially for us, it must be important from our experience that we have recently had on our premises, which is the case of the Yellow House, where KLA terrorists, who today represent themselves to the leaders of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo, had as one economic branch the extraction and sale of organs throughout Western Europe, of course, captured, and then killed Serbs. With the very knowledge of this fact, we need to approach much more carefully and look at all aspects of what can bring us today's change, which is assumed consent. What's also problematic is that we don't pass these laws because it's the need of citizens of Serbia, because it's important, because it will improve health standards, maybe it will, but that's not the proposal's priority. The priority is to comply with EU directives, and the team also had to meet the Committee on European Integration. What does the Committee on European Integration have to do with health care that they issue recommendations on what these proposals are, whether they are good or not? How long do we have to put our interests and interests aside for Serbian citizens to like the EU commissioners and get a pat on the shoulder? This will not speed up our journey to the EU, it can only help us on this path because we are showing serviality, as well as 18 years back to some officials that no one has chosen, who are administrative workers in Brussels, who are bureaucrats who have no weight after their term and all forget them quickly, and we here think they are Alpha and Omega. If anyone is interested in joining the EU from the ruling coalition, they must say openly in the Serbian Parliament -- the basic condition for Serbia's accession to the EU is to recognise the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo, and we are free of all directives and all recommendations and everything else if it is not resolved. We need to stop this and make the process of harmonisation a thing of the past. What do we care about the process of harmonisation and what is EU law? Should it be in line with the needs of Serbian citizens? Also, on one occasion, the minister enthusiastically said that our health care would first enter the EU, as Serbia was admitted to the Eurotransplant. Otherwise, an organisation that does not include and is not part of the EU and does not cover EU member states. It only covers eight countries. It is Germany, Croatia, Hungary, Austria, Slovenia and the Benelux countries. So our health care is slowly entering the EU? What is very problematic here is a statement by the German ambassador, outgoing from Serbia, Axel Ditman, who praised Serbia's membership in Eurotransplant and said that the need for organs is far greater than the donor and that is not only the situation in Serbia, but also in Germany. Then will these laws help us to satisfy the EU market, the black market for organs, as we are already in a fully colonial position. We're cheap labour, we're parking for migrants, we're a polygon for experimentation. Now they will likely be able to find cheap organs in Serbia. There's a list there. It can be found relatively easily. One healthy heart costs 600,000 euros, both lung wings cost 300,000 euros, liver 150,000 euros, both kidneys 150,000 euros, skin 30,000 euros, two corneas 27,000 and so on. Do we now go out with our authorities to the EU market? What's the same is a huge nebulise, which is said in our public and compares the assumed consent to voluntary blood donation and mandatory vaccination. So it can't be an analogy to introduce assumed consent because it's mandatory vaccination, because the vaccine is one civilizational fluid, and this is supposed to be a matter of choice, human law and also a voluntary blood supply. So that's what developed countries give up and where they tried to introduce that assumed consent went very badly. For example, France and Brazil. Street demonstrations have been organised and any government that thinks in the interest of its citizens has given up on it. Negative experiences have other countries, such as Spain. She was in effect assumed consent for more than ten years, but there was no effect on the donation rates. Also in Sweden, which has moved to assumed consent, is a low organ donation rate. The assumed consent, says Dr Milenko Stojkovic, a member of the Commission for Transplants in the Serbian Government, is a statement from 2017, I don't know if that man is still a member of the Commission, but says "The new law implies moving to the assumed consent of the donor, and the assumed consent means that we are all agreed to be organ donors. Whoever doesn't want to donate organs after death will have to apply to the municipality or to the court and sign the form. There will be a database at the Ministry of the Interior, with which everyone's name will include whether he refused to be a donor." So, the nakarad legal solution. Instead of being so that if someone wants to donate organs then apply for a voluntary organ donation, not to be a fact, so if someone doesn't want to, then they have to go and verify the statement at the notary, they have to apply, I don't know what they're doing and, of course, pay for it. So, if that is already such an important topic to us, and you, Minister, have today said that this is in line with all European standards and EU directives and so on, why haven't we looked up to the United States, which have the best regulated organ donation system. So, only one who explicitly wants to donate organs, he logs in, and those who don't want to, don't want to, and that's human right, the right to choice. Therefore, we will not be helped by repressive laws and will not be brought closer to the EU, although this has helped us greatly to get into the Eurotransplant and benefits we are already collecting from it. We should focus on the interests of Serbian citizens and another thing exists, which is patient confidence in doctors. Patients who are seriously ill with some diseases that are severely treated, who may not be very likely to stay alive, how will they trust a doctor if they have in mind that the doctor, the cases we've had and how much corruption in health, unfortunately, doesn't look just like some window with healthy organs where what can be sold? One whole new branch of crime can be done out of it. How will it affect that? So, all those who have spoken, all countries, approach this subject with great caution and do not prescribe European solutions and do not do what is in line with European directives, protocols, etc., but because it is in line with the interests and with improving the health of their citizens. That's how Serbia should work, and that's why you need to withdraw this law and not embarrass yourself and start thinking a little bit about making things better in health, not overwrite bad solutions. Also brain death. The event of brain death is the end of life and death is then declared, etc. Who can trust that? How many cases were there to wake up after 24 hours? It even happened at funerals. So it can't be one reliable fact at all and the security that some man died, especially if the heart is still beating, not only in Serbia, but all over the world, these things have been happening. How can we be certain that this man is no longer alive? On the other hand, there's also something that's tragic. It is said in the explanation – In order to increase the number of donors and reduce the number of patients on the waiting list for transplants, it was necessary to base a clear, transparent system that restores faith and gradually changes consciousness, thus increasing the only chance of survival for all Serbian citizens. A system that restores faith and strengthens consciousness. So, we need this law to ensure the trust of Serbian citizens in Serbian health, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Health at its head is a man known as "Dr. Death". So if someone has the nickname “Dr. Death”...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41714	Comrade Seselj, please don't talk about that terminology, not nicknames. Please respect our guests and this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41715	I apologize, no, I respect everyone, I don't know anything about it, I just know what's in the paper, what can be found on information portals and on television.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41716	It says a lot of things, but here to behave politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41717	Well, it says, it's the sources I use, I read the papers. I don't know if it's true or not, it needs the competent authorities to determine.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41718	That's not true, here, I'll tell you. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41719	Thank you very much, but until I read it somewhere I think that, with all due respect, you are not an organ that should make such decisions, Mr. Marinkovic. But if a man is known as "Dr. Death", I don't go in whether it's true or not, he has pictures with members of the Zemun Clan, although it can't in itself be a reason to accuse someone, since at the time those images were created, those members of the Zemun Clan were very prominent people, the closest friends of the Serbian prime minister, and it can be plus in his career, but the nickname "Dr. Death" and the accusations that he was executing executions at the Clinical Center, I really don't think that someone can be a minister until such a thing is resolved, while there is such a suspicion. So I think these arguments are tragic. I think this law should be withdrawn, that the assumed consent is a matter of repression and disrespect for human rights, and that Serbian citizens should not be afforded besides all these repressions that have more and those that directly attack the human body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41720	Thank you. Minister, Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41721	From everything you've brought out, I'm guessing you still have a lot to read. Keep reading and it'll be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41722	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. You have to sign up. I'll sign up, you want me to talk from here? Alexander Seselj: I'm applying. Just a minute. How about the Rules of Procedure of the Verica Radeta? Do you want to do business? There's no replica. [[He has a replica first. Give him a replica.)]] If you want to follow the Rules of Procedure... (Alexander Seselj: How is there no?) Well, there isn't. (Alexander Seselj: To answer the minister. Here's to the Rules of Procedure, the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41723	I don't know why you got angry with the chairman, how does that not have a replica? How is there no replica when Zlatibor Loncar in this way offends the MP? Article 107, Article 116, which binds it and obliges you that everyone here must behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. They are not gentlemen sitting here, as you said earlier, but they are representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the government elected by the National Assembly and must act accordingly here. You allow yourself a lot, not only in whether you give someone a replica or not, you judge whether someone is this, whether someone is that, and you did not warn the minister that he cannot speak to the People's Messenger in such an offensive way, that he may say to the People's Messenger – you must read much. Well, he's got a lot to read. First, to become a real assistant, not to be a suspicious doctoral degree. You know, a lot of things, just you, now you want to click, there's a lot out there in public and you can't deny to the MPs the right to say what's heard in public. You know, that name of Minister Lonchar wasn't since yesterday. So, you and those before you had the opportunity to determine if that nickname was basic or baseless and why couldn't anyone say it? You know, on this side, when you listen to what people are told, to MPs sitting on the other side, we hear a lot of terrible things, and nobody ever said it was proven. So, anything that's suspicious should be proven, which is why we've already said since recently that Zlatibor Loncar shouldn't be a minister, to either resign or be resolved, so that all these misunderstandings about his name and nickname are resolved, so let's see where he belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41724	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) Thank you. Comrade Seselj, you have no right to reply for reasons that nothing bad, nothing offensive, although you, I have allowed you, have brutally offended the minister. (Alexander Seselj: To give clarification. It wasn't right, I tried to tell you that, to tell you that it wasn't right. You simply, of course, have the right to say what you want and how you want, but you brutally insulted the minister, which I don't think is correct and not collegiate. (Alexander Seselj: I found myself offended. ) (Alexander Martinović: Rules of Procedure. Alexander Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41725	Article 27, Mr. Marinkovic, I thought you'd react, but since you're not, I have to. I don't know if you followed up on the exhibit that was a few minutes ago? As far as I know, there was only one man in the history of the 20th century called “Dr. Death. ” It was Joseph Mengele, SS doctor in Auschwitz. And in 2018, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian health minister compared to Mengele, it was an unprecedented shame and shame, and you had to react to it. Zlatibor Lončar is “Dr. Death”? Zlatibor Lončar did in vivo experiments to give birth to children with blue eyes, to have a pure white race, to destroy Jews, Slovenians, regardless of whether they were Russians, Serbs, Poles, etc.? Well, a good man told you, don't just read the papers, read some books. The books say who Joseph Mengele was. (Alexander Seselj: I'm just looking at pictures.) Well, look at the pictures. What does Zlatibor Lonchar have to do with Mengele? So, Mr Marinkovic, first of all, is not the point of the agenda of Zlatibor Lončar, the point of the agenda are the drafts of the law and do not let anyone here insult Mr Loncar and his associates, and especially do not let the Serbian National Assembly compare the Serbian minister with Joseph Mengele and say – E, I have read somewhere that Zlatibor Lončar is "Dr Death". Goldibor Lonchar is not a doctor of death. Goldibor Loncar is... The squirrel Radeta throws it away. I didn’t throw it to you, listen if you want to, if you don’t want to, do what you want. Zlatibor Loncar is the minister of health of the Republic of Serbia, came to the National Assembly to discuss the bill's proposals. We can figure out whether your laws are good or not. We from the Serbian Progressive Party will support them, but we cannot allow Zlatibor Loncar to be insulted in the worst possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41726	Thank you. I agree with you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41727	Thank you very much. Will you let me speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41728	Go on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41729	Thank you very much. I have to point out once again one bad custom that has become a daily custom here, which is that it insists on a unique search, or a joint debate on things that have nothing to do with each other and only someone who is under the heavy influence of psychoactive substances can link itself to a unique search of three laws that are in the field of medicine, one law that is in the field of atomic energy, the choice of judges and the choice of members of some congregation bodies. There's no reason for that. Here, even three good laws in the field of medicine, regardless of what the proposal is, the Serbian government is a controversial health minister, there is no reason to put it in the same basket and further degrade the work of this parliament. It would be enough time and desire and one proper relationship with the bill's proposals, if it were a debate that is normal, which means that each law is being held by individual debates or possibly by a single investigation of a group of laws that have something to do with each other. It doesn't matter, psychoactive substances and atomic energy, God doesn't let it have anything to do with anything, let alone judges and prison sanctions. But first about the judges. Of course, the proposal that came so that MPs and the authorities couldn't affect him or the opposition. I can only believe or not believe, give trust or not to those who have proposed, and I am ready in advance to give the future judges a chance and that they confirm that they are a good proposal for the functions to take over and restore face and trust in the Serbian judiciary. We are all witnessing that there is everything and everything, that we have judgments that are incompetent, that we have judgments that are clearly under political pressure, that we have judgments that have nothing to do with justice. Anyone who tells me it's always been – it's true. There's always been such a thing, except it used to be exceptions and incidents, and today it's becoming a rule more and more, and I think we should respect those 60, 70% of judges who are doing their job seriously, and 30% of the judges should be prosecuted because of how they do their job, and I'm sure we'll agree with the gentlemen who are here today to propose these judges. The final example is the verdict for the rebel JSO (Special Operations Unit) of former Serbia's MUP. (Alexander Martinovic: Is that the topic of the agenda? ) It has everything to do with the agenda, since it's a custom that's been introduced a few months ago to talk about anything. (Alexander Martinovic: You can't talk like that. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41730	Really, colleague Zivkovic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41731	I'll be back on the subject. So, judges, candidates for judges who are proposed at this session should differ from those who have made a shameful decision on the release of the obviously guilty of the JSO rebellion. There'll be some other... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41732	Comrade Zivkovic, I really need to interrupt. We're not here to comment on court decisions and we don't have the right to do that. Now let me ask you both the JSO and all the court decisions back, let's talk today about this subject and the very important laws that we have on the agenda. What does JSO have to do with a court ruling now? Don't explain anything to me, we're just talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41733	Please, tell your colleague I'll explain now. I, of course, won't even try it, because it's hard for you to understand if you haven't figured it out by now. But let's go back to these health laws. No matter what, I said, to the controversial past of the minister, I will commend these three laws. They came in late, I agree with some colleagues, but it's not this government's fault, or it's not just this power. So let's remove that part. I think it's all about those three laws, that these are laws that are, of course, prescribed from those societies, from those countries where it's better solved, but there's nothing wrong with me. On the contrary, copying good examples should become a rule, not a matter of disgust. One of those laws deals with donations. I think it's a good thing we moved on to this system, if we pass the law, and I'll vote for it. Assumed consent to the donor, I think a good solution that does not diminish any human rights. Who doesn't want to be a donor after his death, can do so in a way described in the law in front of actions that will prevent his organs from being part of some further procedure and there's no problem. I think it's important to create a larger fund of donors and theirs, not to go into medical terminology, but to create better conditions that as many people as possible can be donor users. Of course it's good to make a campaign that way. Of course, it's not good for that campaign when pictures of the health minister appear with the heads of some clans. Since the current government is clearly fully controlling the mass of media in Serbia, it would be good for these media outlets to now be used for a positive donor campaign. Therefore, call this “deinformer, ” as these other newspapers are called, pink television, happy television... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41734	My colleague Zivkovic, I ask you once again, there is no need to insult the media, no "Informer", no pink television, no anyone, especially the minister here who has come to answer questions, which is a very correct man and expert and there is no need for you to do this in parliament. I'll be really forced, if you continue like that, and I'll have to warn you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41735	So, I didn't know you were protecting some media, but good. It's obvious now, and I congratulate you on that humane role you gave yourself. So, I repeat, if the government is already controlling the media that the chairman recognized, then it would be good for the abuse of these media to be used once for good purposes, which is to run a positive campaign, which is a campaign to make donation a positive thing and that our society has a positive attitude towards it. I think that would be a very good thing, and it would contribute to many people who have problems, whose medical condition, whose disease can be solved by a transplant, to translate it into practice, and to benefit more from this law than from it being brought as just one text. I think that's very good. I repeat, these three laws are good, we'll vote for the judges. This Convention on Atomic Energy is very good, especially when it's signed at the time of SFRJot, and now it's being extended in some way. I don't have any objections to that part, but it's methodologically bad as you run the sessions, as scheduled in this case. A few good laws, a few good decisions will be stained by being stuck in the same pot and cooked in a way that is not worthy of the value these laws and those decisions should make for our society. If I can get a chance to ask the minister something, it's not the closest topic, but it's not that far, and that's the question of Torlak, the question of Director Torlak's status. There was Mrs Vera Stojiljković, who was the director from February 2013 until 2017, who appeared in a new competition that was then called, but no one had been elected for a year, one and a half days after the competition, and Mrs Vera Stojiljković was v.d. again. Director of Torlaka. I'd like you to tell me – what makes sense in restoring trust in health care, in the state that we have a year and a half after the competition is finished, V.D. The state of director of a state institution? Or she won that contest, and it would be normal if she did because she was the director before that, so it means she meets the conditions of competition or if she isn't, then she can't possibly be V.D. Director. This is how we have a state that's inexplicable. I'm sure you have an explanation for that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41736	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41737	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41738	The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41739	I can really commend that you support these laws, and I'm very pleased. From what I've seen here, we won't have any serious discussion about these laws... The People's Messenger throws it away. I'm sorry. I forgot about you, but for the rest of you, I can see the laws won't be a topic, and I'm glad. It is a sign that there is nothing wrong and problematic in the laws and when there is no such thing, then there are some topics from 15 years ago. Once again, I support it, but I have three more lives to live, and I can't be more controversial than you. I'm a little kid for you, Mr. Zivkovic... (Zoran Zivkovic: Little child? Yes, yes. ... As far as the controversy is concerned. We'll talk about your nonsense. (Zoran Zivkovic: Chairman, did you hear this? I haven't started that subject yet. I'll start it, but I'll go back to Torlak. As for Torlak, the procedure is not completed for the ultimate reason, Torlak is looking for a strategic vonterna, or investment that will be invested and depending on when we have investments, when we make a detailed plan based on the investments we have, we make a strategy for further work. That's the only reason. Torlak works most normally. There will be new projects. So I don't see any problem here unlike when you were and you worked in all ways to destroy Torlak and you were on the verge of destroying it. Torlak is now working and producing vaccines and has a good perspective on getting back on the road, on the road he was on. So much for Torlak now and so much for Torlak in your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41740	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. Have you been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Turn it off. Zoran Zivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41741	Replica. First of all, about Torlak and my time, I think you've mixed up a lot. You've mixed up a lot. If something is measured by my time, it's of course pretentious, I don't use such a term, but the time while I had part of responsibility in the then government, it was until the end of 2003 when Torlak worked completely normal without any... Check out a little history. If you don't know another way, Google. That's what I recommend to everyone. There's a lot of information that can be found on social networks. As for the nonsense where you measure your stupidity and my stupidity, you said mine was bigger and that's, of course, from the position of the one I'm saying to myself that stupid is a completely logical one grade. I don't have any problem with that. Things 15 years ago aren't history. Things 15 years ago, 18 years ago, 20 years are Serbia's modern history and it can't be forgotten so easily, whether it's flirting with criminals, whether it's... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41742	Comrade Zivkovic, he gives you a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic: Why? ) The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41743	I'm glad you're interested in these topics and all that. I would only ask you, since you are interested in these topics and I see that you like to talk about, to tell you everything you know and what you have about killing a journalist Pantic in Jagodina, about black Mercedes, fake plates and other things, that people in Serbia are becoming increasingly clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41744	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41745	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, which is the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, you have allowed my fellow farmer to attempt, Zoran Zivkovic, to speak of someone under the fact of psychoactive substances uniting the agenda, if I understood it well. Let my colleague Martinovic correct me if that is not the case. That's inadmissible. I don't doubt his medical skills, his skill, since he knows best from his own experience what psychoactive substances are. He could've figured it out a little better, but what he did was inadmissible. It's also inadmissible that you let her talk about JSO, very inadmissible. So this is a party in The Tower after an alleged attempt at a coup. These are Interior Ministers, Federal Zoran Zivkovic, a more famous fellow farmer, and besides him is Mihajlovic, the republican interior minister. Both were associated with members of the JSO unit after an alleged coup attempt. They even danced with them and sang "My comrades are tough guys", which, of course, comes from the attached photos to notice. Also, you let it talk about JSO. After an alleged coup attempt, the prime minister visited the JSO base, as did the man who took his place. Here's a photograph and a future to take care of, the psychoactive substances apparently took away my fellow farmer's gray cells that are not being transplanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41746	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you so much, everyone. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. He's got a word for it. Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41748	Dear President, Honorable Minister Loncar, State Secretary Mr Vekic and Mr Icko, Honorable Judges Mr Ivana Jovicic and Aleksandra Pantic, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to talk about a legal solution that will help people who fight serious and incurable diseases. You probably know that I am a doctor and that for the fourth time I am in the meeting of the Serbian Parliament and that I have never answered to talk about something that was not related to the health, social or science sector and that I have mostly talked about health issues and laws with a goal and a desire to help citizens of Serbia who have a health problem. The health care sector is such that, in my opinion, there should not be a topic of day-to-day political bickering. I understand that laws are passed in parliament that at one point correspond to a republican government and that some laws are passed in parliament that need to comply with European legislation are numerous ways and reasons for the adoption of certain laws, but these laws that come from the health sector, especially today, are in the interest of sick patients. That's how I see it and publicly talk about it, since I'm also familiar and that my colleagues are respected professors, doctors, along with people from the ministry, have contributed to this legal solution. I was going to try to get a word in my morning address, and then I decided to start this exposure with one piece of information, and so I'm going to finish it that on March 29th at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, one of our three-year-old fellow citizens passed away, and his goodwill before death was saved four human lives. On March 29th, cardiac transplants, liver transplants and transplants of both kidneys were performed. So he saved four people's lives and there's nothing stronger about it. It's something that's the very act of donorship and transplant program, in my opinion the strongest thing and the most humane thing besides, certainly, and the giving of blood. And I think in that direction we should go in the next period. As a doctor, I'd also like to tell you the public that the Serbian health care of this problem has well-trained personnel, has good health centres. Since I come from Nis, we have a very good clinic where we can do these transplants, but what we don't have is a sufficient number of donors. By the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, we were among the leading Yugoslav republics as hospitals from Serbia, especially the Clinical Centre of Serbia, by the number of transplants done, but then through the collapse of Yugoslavia, we began to fall precisely because of a vague legal solution, while our neighbouring republics, then independent republics of Slovenia and Croatia, entered this path to Europe and this one reflection of change and this legal solution, even by changing that legal solution and making significant progress in the process of transplanting itself, which is commendable. What I'm trying to say is that Serbian citizens are quite afraid, unfortunately that's how the Balkans are, they're quite afraid to sign a donor card in the past. I've been in contact with a number of my neighbors, and even some patients in conversation with them getting information like doctors, I'm afraid to sign it, pooh, pooh, pooh, away and so forth. It's one superstition that exists and it's something that we all have to break together and be unique about it. To this day is the signing of a donor card that I hold in my hand, which I have signed as a doctor long before, you see that all the organs, thank God, and today they work, no one has pulled out any organ and I have every right to say that the transplant program is something that is a great thing and that will help people, which has a problem. The minister said there are 2,000 patients in Serbia who have an incurable chronic disease and where the only treatment method is just a transplant. I think this law has 2,000 reasons to be adopted, not 250 MPs, but 2,000 reasons that oblige each of us to think before we press our voting button, whether we adopt it or not. I've already said, for the fourth time in Parliament, and I've witnessed various political combinations and some different political analyses, how to harm someone who's on this side or how to cross this from the opposition, but I repeat, here we are talking about 2,000 of our fellow citizens who have an incurable disease. These 2,000 patients oblige us not to be so narrowly party-oriented today, but to need as the law tells us and that oath we signed as MPs to represent citizens in parliament. I think by pressing the taster to press the taster for these patients who are severely ill and who only have a chance to survive if the bill is passed that we have a larger number of donors, so that they can at some point get the desired organ. What I'm trying to say is that there's a lot of talk about transplants, and in earlier years. I have prepared information that I think is very important to mention in this high house, in the year 348, the new era of Jakopo has stated in his writings that St. Cosma and Damian tried to replace the gangreno leg of Roman Deacon Justin, with the leg of a recently buried Ethiopian Morra. So that's when a transplant was being considered in a world like this. Nearly 2,000 years ago, some people were trying to extend their lives to a patient, that year after year, from century to century, there has been an improvement in new findings about transplants, and that crucial development, practically a shift in the transplant program, came from Alexis Karel, who won the Nobel Prize in 1912 for the development of vascular anastamosis technique, which allowed a successful organ transplant. Certainly, with great pride, I can say that in Serbia, the first kidney transplant was done in 1973 at the City Hospital on Starry. The team of doctors, led by Professor Vasil Jovanovic and Primarius Milan Jovanovic, conducted and performed this difficult, practically pioneering procedure. That was, like, '73. In the year, Serbian medicine and Serbian health have since made significant progress, and we have been faced with one topic that practically made it impossible for us healthcare professionals and patients to extend their lives, to get an organ because we don't have enough donors. The Resorno Ministry of Health and RTS, as well as many good human people, will also mention the “Hemofarm” that has joined this unique action “Resume Life”, I personally used my social networks, “tweezer” and “facebook” to extend life and other “hashtag” – the most important call in life, just to draw attention to the importance of organ donation and transplant law. In the last term, I made it clear that it is important to change the legal solution, to potentially be all donors, because we show the maturity of society, because we are coming out of some retrograde thinking, because we are coming out of a backward Serbia that thinks about the heads of the 15th century, where we need to think progressively and protect the interests of our patients. As a doctor and as a politician, I witnessed a life-long struggle for a little girl, who I have the right to mention by relatives, but I won't, you'll probably all remember, the first girl who, by changing the regulations of the Republic Health Insurance Fund at the expense of the state, went to treatment in Vienna at Allgemeines Krankenhouse, one of the world's most reference hospitals for organ transplant. I personally escorted her along with her parents to the airport, wished her luck and from her planned heart and lung transplants, and fortunately only a heart transplant was done. She's still overjoyed because she's living a new life. It's something that gave me the extra strength to talk right in this house about the problems of little people who are invisible to all of us here, because we are representatives of citizens here, but we don't see, roughly, in the depths of some people who are in life's problems. What I want to pass on from her experience to all of you, and most of all to the citizens of Serbia, was that it wasn't enough that the Fund approved the funds and that she came to Vienna to Allgemeines Krankenhouse Hospital, because there were lists of the same waiting, i.e. the graduation of these patients and not only money, many citizens think that by collecting money on numerous SMS humanitarian actions through social networks or means of information, that it was enough for a transplant and when you raise money, that her life or his life will be saved, because they were second-row patients there, because we weren't then members of that community of developed and smart people who realized that they had to change, to become part of a common, practically block that is fighting for human life, and that's Eurotransplant. When I hear someone say it, they'll take out our organs and we'll be the market for other people's organs. Well, all our patients who went to Vienna and this little fellow citizen of ours got some Austrian heart from some Austrian boy. So we have to think humanely and realize that by changing this legal solution, we allow our citizens to be in order, i.e. our country to be in line with developed normal, decent, regulated health systems, with people who think progressively and have equal status with all patients from Slovenia, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain or other countries that are members of the Eurotransplant. So publicly and clearly, as a doctor and as a People's MP, I support this bill. On behalf of the Democratic Party Parliament Club, I am talking about this with a lot of support from my fellow Members of Parliament, that this is a law that will help citizens who have one life problem. It's something I'm glad to have at this point the possibility of a legal solution, not bickering, not outwitting, helping, as we've been told by the people of the ministry, 2000 patients. It's not just a solution to this problem for those 2,000 patients, it's also a solution for some unborn babies, who will have a life problem at some point, so this legal solution will allow them to extend their lives. So, I can say that this is a very important topic that helps people and doctors, helps patients, something that will allow our doctors to be shoulder to shoulder with their colleagues in the world. We have good doctors, good nurses, even decent reference rooms, I can't talk about some smaller health centers, I can talk about my Nis Clinical Centre, I can talk about the Serbian Clinical Center and the Vojvodina Clinical Center. We have extremely good doctors, professors who are doing these transplant interventions with great success, and it's unfortunate that for years back we haven't had the courage to break taboos and enter such a legal solution that will allow our patients the opportunity to live. I said that I would start and bring to an end the debate about this bill, the sentence and the information that on March 29th in the Clinical Centre of Serbia by our 30-year-old fellow citizen, who died, who left his donor card for life, which I have, and without fear I signed it, I think that's what's most humane, he saved four lives. He saved four patients. From his body, his heart was transplanted once, liver to another, and two other patients had a kidney. So there's nothing more humane than allowing someone to extend their lives, to live, to be in a circle of their family. A colleague from the SPS, being a nephrologist, commented on both the price and the economic aspect of it can be seen, although I always watch those medical and humane, but I am medically that when you treat a kidney patient, when he does not have to go on dialysis, when he can go on vacation freely, because all patients who are on dialysis for two to three days have to go on dialysis, when he can now live freely after a kidney transplant, you have done something that is one new life for that person and for that family. So the transplant is something that I absolutely do, as a MP and as a doctor, support. One brief review of this bill on psychoactive substances. Again as a doctor, I can't say differently, I always say as a doctor, although everyone tells me -- you're a politician, I say -- I'm a doctor with the ability to use this political microphone to speak on behalf of sick patients, to say that I support every effort, any resolute ministry, that fights drugs that are dangerously evil. Someone said these people are hyenas selling drugs. I absolutely agree that people who destroy human lives mutilate families, make families unhappy, just because of some personal income and profit, they have to be hit by the state. I personally noticed several police actions in my Nis, with the tendency to check the practical safety of these facilities in public facilities, i.e. Does anyone have anything next to them in their bag or in their pocket? So, support for that. What I still want to make a suggestion about this is, yes, we've been talking about school cops for a long time, and I think it's necessary to give the cops more authority, that's all. to get more involved, because if we have a high school cop in primary and high school, they know best whether or not someone who's just kicking it or giving it to kids, or selling drugs. So, I think we should give more meaning here and a little bit through the joke, my fellow Members of the Assembly have announced on some social networks that I was on Exit, they were joking like -- well, was there a lot of drugs and all that? I didn't see anything myself. I think the security of this music festival was good and that I was searched more than I was searched as a MP in the Serbian Parliament itself. A music festival that is great, and besides this festival, I'm going to Nisville, Nis, and I think it's some good things for Serbia, so it's full of support for the organizers. One more answer, I'm a little off topic, doubtful about, one of my colleagues talked about organ trafficking, so the process that doctors do, I don't know any doctor who could do such a thing, the process of monitoring itself, the decision-making of a patient, the taking of an organ is so wide, if someone has read the bill, compared, I've read the legal solution from Croatia and the legal solution from Germany and the law from Spain, so this is well legally done and proposed so there shouldn't be any doubt that any abuse will be done. Dear colleagues, MPs and, above all, Serbian citizens, I don't think you should be, so we're sending a message that this is a good bill that will help sick patients, our fellow citizens, perhaps at one point to one of your relatives who will unfortunately face a serious and incurable disease. This is a legal solution that saves people's lives and I say this is not a political law, although it is certainly a law that is adopted in a political body, this is a law that has two thousand reasons for our sick citizens who are watching this session today to be adopted in parliament. I stress that with joy I will press the green button and call on all my colleagues, as a doctor, to realize that this is a legal solution for sick patients, not for SNS SPS, DS or any other party, this is a law for sick patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41749	Thank you, Dr. Milisavljevic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41750	Thank you. Respected citizens of Serbia, honored guests, I will only talk about one law, since there is not too much time to cover all this. It's about the Law on controlled psychoactive substances, and I'm going to focus on just one thing that was probably most expected of this law, and that's the idea that this law, as one of the two important laws that can be done, allows people to treat cannabis oil. As you know, this law has been discussed for a long time, the working group of this law was founded I think at the end of 2014, so a long working group, three and a half, worked for four years. The law has brought a great deal of public attention, and it's been public talk for a very long time, actually, to be precise, it's about amendments and additions to the existing 2010 law. He's been talked about for a very long time just because expectations were high. A large number of people expected this law to finally enable people who are going through severe suffering in various types of diseases, which could be better or easier if they use cannabis oil. Unfortunately, this law didn't happen. A large number of people are once again disappointed by this. To see how high the expectations were, if you go to YouTube and type in – Kanabis oil, patients, testimony, you will see a huge number of videos of living people's testimony, our contemporaries, citizens of this country, who testify to how the cannabis oil helped them to cope with the diseases they suffer. Legal reasoning is touching this problem and I'm going to read it to the public, because I think they need to know. Therefore, it is explained why the law did not authorise the use of cannabis oil for medical purposes. To make it very clear once again, I'm talking here exclusively about the use of cannabis oil for medical purposes. He says: “There are no accepted proposals for the legalisation of cannabis oil for medical purposes, since the opinion of the professional public is that there are no clinical studies in people who would confirm these attitudes, as well as the fact that there are registered cannabis-based medicines, which is why there is no reason to introduce the legalisation of cannabis oil for medical use. ” That is, therefore, an official explanation. There's one thing that bothers me, and I'd like one of the guests to explain it to me. If there is no expert public opinion that it is allowed or recommended to use anything at any level and on the basis of cannabis oil, any medicine that would contain any of what cannabis oil can do, why are drugs that have synthetic psychoactive substances also found in cannabis oil registered? You know what, if cannabis oil is not allowed, then neither drugs containing synthetic psychoactive substances that are also found in cannabis oil should be allowed to be sold. However, we have at least three drugs that are sold and have so-called medicines. Synthetically obtained THC, it is a psychoactive substance found in cannabis oil, which otherwise makes cannabis oil the biggest problem to accept and approve its use, such as "dronabinol", nabilon, "sytings". So these are all medicines that are in free use, which can be bought on a prescription containing synthetically obtained THC. If anyone can answer, I'd like to ask you to answer why that is? If it can be synthetic, why can't it be natural? It is explained that there is no expert public opinion that this medicine can be used. Can one of the guests present tell us what the views of the professional public are? Is there a document, some study, signed by people in Serbia who deal with this problem, which says that cannabis oil is not a good solution for people who are going through severe suffering because of their illnesses? I haven't seen her, but maybe I haven't run into her, so it would be good if you told us that. And not only would it be good, you should have actually sent such a study or such an attitude to this congregation, so that then we and the whole public might know what the problem is. If there are no such types of studies or conclusions, in one country, I can understand it, we spend a lot of money from the budget on a variety of things that may not be of great priority, so we don't have enough money to pay for experts to make some kinds of research in our country and prove anything, or that cannabis oil is usable or not, then you can call on some foreign studies, and there's a lot of them. I'm going to quote now one of those studies, which is a synthetic study, or a study of the summary, which shows what the current state of science is in the whole world on this issue. Now I'm talking about scientific evidence of what treatment or effects cannabis oil produces for medical purposes. There is a study by the National Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine, which deals with the health effects of cannabis and cannabis, which covered a review of about 100 scientific papers in the last 10 years on this subject. In fact, 16 scientists were tasked with reading all these papers and getting some kind of review on how medical science is currently assessing the state of affairs in the world. He says: “The hard evidence, therefore, is statistically solid evidence to argue that cannabis oil relieves chronic pain in anyone. “ So imagine any chronic pain you have, cannabis oil can help you. Furthermore, we have solid evidence that cannabis oil facilitates or removes nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy. And finally one of the most important things, perhaps, because this community in Serbia may be the loudest so far, helps with spasm in multiple sclerosis. So I've talked to several people who have multiple sclerosis, who use cannabis oil, who, for example, had a 90% diagnosis of immobility, who are now walking the streets, function in everyday life just like you and I. There is some moderate evidence of what cannabis oil can do, then says: increased appetite, help with Tourette's syndrome, reduced anxiety, also helps with post-traumatic, stress disorder. There's some limited evidence for some diseases, and it doesn't matter now. So this is a state of discipline or consensus that exists in world medical science. I don't quite understand why we haven't had any similar studies and why people who have done these additions to the law haven't called for that, why they haven't read it. So there are some earlier studies, this is the most recent, published in 2017, so a little over a year. In other countries, cannabis oil is already legalized. Many of these countries have legalized a long time ago, more than ten years ago, some have legalized it recently. There are also some countries that are our neighbors who have done this to us. I will read, in order for viewers, or voters, to know that this is nothing to be talked about, but that many serious countries have already adopted the view that cannabis oil is no drug, but that it can help people who are suffering from terrible pains. These are: Canada, Germany, Croatia, Chile, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Finland, Greece, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Macedonia, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Peru, Romania, Australia, Argentina, Denmark, Uruguay and about 20 federal units of the United States. Some of these countries have already fully legalized the use of cannabis oil, even for recreational purposes, but I don't want to talk about it, I'm talking exclusively about medical needs. What is the problem with us, which is caused by the current policy, health policy relating to the use of cannabis oil? Preventing people from using it according to the doctor's prescription led to a large black market where cannabis oil is now being sold. People who go through severe pains, buy this oil on black, no matter what the law says. Many of them I have spoken to and whose confessions I have listened to, say very clearly, I absolutely don't care what it says in the Criminal Law and what the penalty is prescribed for it, because between the choices I'm going to die of pain and to commit a crime and to get better, I choose this second. A large number of people, in fact, are already buying cannabis oil on black, because its price is quite high, and it's large because it's a crime and it's on the list of heavy drugs that are even with the status of cocaine and heroin. So you treat what people can do, as a cure, in the same way you treat the use of heroin and cocaine and so on from people who buy it to make their lives easier, you make criminals. I'll give you one example that may be best known, in Leskovec a year and a half or two ago, the husband of a woman who suffers from multipleosis, who has three young children, bought on a black cannabis oil bottle, the police arrested him for it, received a measure of prison and thus left a sick woman with three small children, who suffered from multiplesclerosis left with three young children at home. I don't know how you feel about it. I think this is as pointless as anything can be pointless. So you've made more criminals on the market than there should be. You've raised the price of cannabis oil by selling it on black. The state is left without certain funds in the form of taxes that it could receive if it legalized the sale of cannabis oil and, of course, one part of the police force that must now chase and watch all these people, you tied their hands so that they couldn't chase some criminals who are much, much more dangerous. What's most important, when something is sold on black, you don't really know what you're buying, i.e. You don't know what's being sold, so in that vial, let's say a small bottle that reaches in black, in Serbia, the price and up to 300 euros, you can find anything. Since it's black, you don't know who's selling you what you're selling, nor do you know who you can chase if you find out he sold you a cat in a bag. If these things were legalized, look at the benefits they would benefit society. First, a large number of people who buy this for health reasons would no longer be declared criminals, nor would they have a guilty conscience when they do, because they know they're not doing anything that is against society's interests. Secondly, if it were legalized, sales and production would, of course, be controlled, because the state has nothing else to do but control and oversee that kind of production, so you would know exactly what the composition is and what it is you buy, and you would know who to chase if it sold you a cat in a bag. You can't do that now. Finally, if you were to legalize the cannabis oil market, like in all these countries that I've read to you, the price would have to fall, because then the cost of selling would be lower, and you'd also have one part of the revenues that the state is now losing because it's being sold on black. These are all aspects of this problem in which I found nothing in the light of this law. Finally, the right to treatment is also a human right. People themselves need to decide how they can be treated, they have the right to do so, it is guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia, members 68, 23 and 43, and preventing people from legally using this means is a kind of violation of the Serbian Constitution that often happens in this Assembly and in many laws. I ask you, in the name of the well-being of people who suffer from various kinds of diseases, and in the name of respect for human rights in this country, finally, to make it possible for these people to come to a cure that suits them, who have chosen themselves and that they can thus ease the suffering they have and are going through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41751	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41752	You're, I mean, 60% of what you said, absolutely all right. There are studies in the world, we cannot influence, influence as a state, whether these studies will be done in Serbia or not. You know it depends on who's interested in it, to meet the necessary conditions, and it can be done. To clarify that all the people here and the viewers know, cannabis, cannabis oil, cannabis-based drugs can't cure any cancer or any other malignant disease, which you've mentioned nicely, they help, make it easier. So let's just get this thing straight. Milorad Mircic: I can't listen to this. Say, did you say something or something? Milorad Mircic: For yourself? For yourself, okay. Go ahead and say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41753	Please, Ministers, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41754	So these are the facts of cannabis and we absolutely agree here. We're... . Please, do we want to talk or what? Milorad Mircic: I can't listen to him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41755	I ask the People's Messengers to refrain from being cast down, to hear the minister. Here you go, Minister. I beg your pardon and proceed with your response. You don't have to listen, it's a free country and a free parliament. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41756	So that part, I think everyone needs to be clear. The second thing, we're on our way, you probably know about the cannabis legalization procedure. People who are dealing with these things, who are dealing with all these things, and we just, I don't know if, we just got into one problem that as soon as we find a solution to that problem, drugs, or cannabis-based oil, there's no problem in being here. What's the problem? The problem is that we can't guarantee from everything that we're offered to import here, that in that drug that comes here, it's going to be exactly the concentrations of cannabis that are written, because none of those who offered guarantee it. The analyses that have been done in each of these substances have a different concentration of cannabis. Do you really think the state can take over that someone got that oil with a lower concentration, and someone with a higher concentration and some side effects, let's say, with that higher concentration, and the state allowed it to go. So that's the only problem there is about legalizing it. Why are these other medicines you listed, registered and properly used? Because you can guarantee the concentration of cannabis in them. What we have proposed to these people, this process would have to be done from beginning to end and being escorted and there's no problem at all. So that's the basic point, that we have as a state guarantee that this concentration is written, that it's in that oil. Whoever delivers this, delivers it, guarantees as soon as possible, will be registered. So let's not make people think it's a political issue right now -- we will, we won't, it doesn't help, it doesn't help. We've made everything clear and what helps and what doesn't help. It helps people who are in terminal stages, in difficult and other conditions. It eases their problems, eases their suffering. Of course, we all fight for those people. These people are watching what we're saying right now, and all they need to know is what the problem is, and to take over the state and say, let it go in, so tomorrow they're going to say, well, you gave permission for it as a state, this one drank more, this one drank less, this one happened, that one happened, that one happened. We can't do this unserious work. So, here, I'm telling you now about you and all those who are interested in it, and why would we have a problem with it showing up on the market, but if it can be controlled, the legal frameworks should be respected. What have other countries done? That's not what you wanted to say. Other countries to prevent it have taken the process and worked it from the beginning to the end. They put one part of their pharmaceutical industry for it. They grow it, under strictly controlled conditions, make and get that concentration, but we don't mind. Well, it can't be done by the state. So let's just be objective and tell people how things really are. There's no obstacle to that. They just have to deal with legal conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41757	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41758	Thank you. Minister, when, say, you want to see in some fruit juice or some cake, what's the percentage of sugar in it, what do you do? You reverse the declaration and it says how many grams of sugar there are in it. So it's not companies or manufacturers doing it because they want to, it's because they have to. The state made them do it. It's the same with cannabis oil as natural oil. So what's problematic, that's the level of THC, the psychoactive substance, which can be 1%, 2%, 5%, 15%, you tell whoever's producing it and wants to import to Serbia as much as you allow, he writes it on the declaration and that's how it's imported. This is how it is done with all the products that we import from other countries and with all the products that are produced in this country. So it's one of the most important functions of the state, to control whether the players on the market behave the way the rules are prescribed. As we punish any other producer who does not say the exact quantity in the product declaration, let's say sugar, fat or salt, or anything else, so you can also punish or not import anyone who does not write to you on the declaration what the percentage of THC is in cannabis oil. You know what, if all these countries have started producing or importing them from other countries, we can do both. No one says the state needs to produce it, you just have to remove from the Criminal Law the provision that buying and producing cannabis oil for medical purposes is a criminal offence and that in this law you write that it is possible. That's all you have to do as a minister and, of course, to have a state apparatus, a administration, the police, to monitor whether it's actually being carried out in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41759	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. So, a violation of dignity. Mr. President, you must have a measure. I don't go into a fellow MP's private life. My colleague Rancic is a specialist of this kind. I'm not the one who's supposed to judge who's using what, but there's obviously a push for psychoactive substances here. So, there's only one more person missing here to apply to the gram. So this is where the cannabis is advertised and, as far as I can see, very active. This is the National Assembly, these are the MPs of the people. Whether or not an authorised representative of cannabis is likely to be used by an apaurin representative, that's their private right and I'm not going to get into it. Of course, if they're dealing, then it's punishable and if they get caught, but I'm not the police or the D.A., and here, too much, in my opinion, it advertises cannabis, without our viewers being the most professional, I can't tell whether drugs are advertised or hemp advertised for certain industrial purposes, for agricultural purposes, of which a certain fabric and other products are made. So that clearly has to pull the line. It is obvious that he is not advertising to the noodle, cannabis for agricultural purposes, but rather advertising it for some purposes that ordinary citizens think is drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41761	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Pavlovic, a liberal, has such attitudes, has the right. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Marian Risticevic: No. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41762	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8. The previous speaker reported to the Rules of Procedure, and then he didn't speak at all about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but entered the replica. Article 103 also prohibits the 8th position of the chairman, in this case to punish such an MP by taking two minutes away from the time of the parliamentary group available for discussion. I ask you to do so now, and in the future, since you have one serial offender of this member and these attitudes, I ask you every time, as soon as you go into that transgression to break it off, to turn off his microphone, not to let him humiliate the dignity of the National Assembly and, to make it uglier, to constantly appear by the violation of the 107th destruction of the dignity of the National Assembly, and he is a walking destruction of the National Assembly. Please respond to this next time by shutting down the microphone, not retroactively, as I am now asking you in this case, when you have already let it violate Article 103 of Section 7 and now you have to punish it according to attitude 8. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41763	Thank you. Of course, I will not punish him because, like his colleague Pavlovic, he has the right to state his position and to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in voting day, Col. Stamenkovic? (Branka Stamenkovic: Yes. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41764	Because of the public's interest, because of the patients who think it's necessary, necessary and the like, I just want to say one thing. Not everyone who meets the legal requirements that exist at the Medicines Agency... There's no problem that when legal conditions are respected, when it's at these concentrations, it can help register as a cure and it has an exact diagnosis to which it is applied, but I unfortunately have to inform you that no request has ever arrived at the Agency. The official application didn't arrive for registration. (Dusan Pavlovic: This is a criminal act. No, no. Don't interfere. We're trying to talk facts. So you're right. There's a law, there's exactly what you have to meet, you meet it, you file for it, and it's being solved. There is no one who has met the legal requirements that his request has been denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41765	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41766	Minister, under Criminal Law, selling cannabis oil is a felony. Why would anyone in their right mind come and apply to the Agency for Medicinal Products? Well, he can't because he knows it's going to be rejected because it's a crime. When the Criminal Code changes and it's not a crime, then people will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41767	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41768	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 106st century 2rd and 3rd concerning Article 108. Professor Pavlovic is known for being a little more liberal than you say. After playing porn, there was a drug commercial. I ask, since he himself said it was punishable by the Criminal Code, is it by saying that the law prohibits drug advertising or not? So they're asking me to take away the time just because I'm warning the viewers, and you as chairman, that at this point Professor. Pavlovic is totally unauthorized, acts as an authorised face of cannabis. So, it represents, it wants to present it as a cure, at this point it's a drug, the law is forbidden. I think there's a drug commercial going on here, and in that case, he's throwing away a health minister all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41769	Thank you, colleague Rističević. We're back on the same thing. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Of course you have a more conservative attitude, he's more liberal. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Marian Risticevic: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Branko Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41770	Thank you. Article 109. - the notice shall be made to the People's Messenger if other proceedings violate the order of the sitting or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Now I, the chairman, right to tell you, I have a dilemma whether I should ask you to give this article 109th warning to the previous speaker, or to yourself. I asked you nicely on your previous announcement that the next time this serial breaker of the Rules of Procedure starts breaking the Rules of Procedure to turn off his microphone, you take away his word. That's what you're entitled to in this Rules of Procedure. I don't understand the logic by which you, who should take care of the order at the session, and you can do it simply by pressing the taster, persistently allowing the breaker, the serial breaker and the demeanor of the Assembly's dignity to break the Rules of Procedure for two minutes, and then, caobayagi, you're making the turkey dots don't apply, nothing happened. I ask you, therefore, to give this article 109, finally for the first time in these two years since this 11th call to this serial breaker of the Rules of Procedure, to give him the first warning ever, and to take at least 10% of his salary on the Administrative Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41771	My colleague Stamenkovic, first of all, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure and I'm not the one who's going to give the notice because someone has expressed his opinion. I think we had one correct debate and a colleague of Pavlovic from your MP club had the opportunity to express his position and there is nothing you can blame me for. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Branka Stamenkovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. (Branimir Rancic: Rules of Procedure. ) The word is given by MP Branimir Rancic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dr. Rancic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41772	Since I was called, as a neuropsychiatrist doctor, a respected colleague across the street...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41773	You have to name a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41774	Article 107(2) Since counterpart Pavlovic does not come from medical circles, from the medical profession, I think he finished designing schools in Hungary, I don't think he should enter these waters when it comes to psychoactive substances. I need to tell you something, colleague, in order to discuss psychoactive substances, you need to know what a division of psychoactive substances is. I don't blame you for saying you're coming from another mile, not this one. So I have to tell you the following, all psychoactive substances, and you'll see that Indian hemp and cannabis go into psychoactive substances, they're divided into depressors first, so on. Depressors. That's where the alcohol, the narcotics come in, and the drugs include opium and its derivatives, morphine, heroin, synthetic methadone analgesics. Second, hypnotics, sedatives, and a small tranquilant. So barbiturates and meprobamate. It may be a Spanish village for you, but it wouldn't be a waste to hear. Two, these are psychostimulants where cocaine, amphetamines, or you might know him better as speed, ecstasy, crack. You know how crack and cannabis and Indian hemp are used.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41775	Thank you, Dr. Jancic. Time's up. (Ranko Jancic: Therefore, you cannot enter the discussion because you do not know. This is a replica, okay, we move on, we close the circle. The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41776	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with a wide range of associates, I would like to say briefly, although I find it uncomfortable, to spoil this idyll that exists in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on these proposed laws, because I believe that this law opens up an entire set of bioethical topics and dilemmas that will soon become more than current, as far as I can see, in the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know, Mr. Minister, we've always had a live one, and I'd say a healthy controversy on a number of issues, if I'd never hesitated to praise all the good things that came from your ministry, and, of course, to understand what I didn't think was right. And so here, I can say in this crafty part of regulating the law and bringing into order a single matter that, for example, has not been brought into order for nine years, and the question arises why have you been in power for six years? You moved something, you did something and you fixed something. Otherwise, a year ago, and we settled the transfusiology, or blood transfusions in the Serbian health system, so it doesn't work, so we can do it in more detail because it's obvious that we're doing something legal, and in practice, there's always a lot of trouble in applying it at all or applying it wrong. Here I would like to draw your attention to our legislation with this law entering a whole set of topics concerning bioethical topics and dilemmas. So, starting with, of course, the birth equality law that we're being announced and that should allow someone who feels like a woman in the morning, afternoon as a man, and in the evening again as a woman, has the opportunity to feel whatever they want. Then, the announcement of a law on the same-sex communities, etc., and you know well that in the preparation and foreplay of a civil code that deals with only some controversial bioethical issues such as euthanasia, cloning, then physically punishing children who are banned, and an increasing number of taken away children. Here, the other day, Mr. Minister, we had an amazing piece of information in "News" that parents have taken away 5,668 children in Serbia in the last five years. Why am I bringing this up? I'm coming to your theme. Because this is all a topic that says that although the government on the outside has a fight against the white plague, I don't know what else we've very openly supported, because it's our policy since the founding of the Dvora, and we're glad that after six years, the government realized that Davery was absolutely right when they talked about family policy. On the other hand, we have one whole set, I would say, anti-family legislation or bioethicalally extremely controversial and problematic legislation. Then let's not go back to the subject of vaccines and "Torlaks", there were words here today, but you have to understand all of us parents whose bioethical topics are important, all of us trusting people with bioethical topics are false. We don't care what the EU or Brussels says, we care what the teaching of our faith, our church says. For us, bioethical topics are very sensitive. I'd like to appeal to you on behalf of many parents. When you see opposition, so-called. Vaccination, you should know that this is not an opposition to mandatory vaccination, because it is one civilizational and good liquid, but it is an opposition to suspected vaccines whose origin is unknown, which are not made in Serbia because we have compromised Serbia's health security because we are not making any more domestic vaccines, etc. So, what I'm saying is that this is a whole spectrum of topics simply concerned by modern Serbian parents. So, maybe someone's exaggerating in that care, maybe someone's prone to conspiracy theories, maybe there's a variety of leaks, but don't deny the basic concern behind it. So people have certain moral dilemmas. That's something you have to keep in mind when you're proposing certain laws. In particular, when you talk about the Law on human organs transplants, you have to be aware of one fact that no doubt exists, which is trafficking in human organs. I'm going to give you a specific and painful example, and that's what I'm talking about. fetal therapy based on the removal and use of tissues and organs of human embryos aborted at different stages of development to try to treat different diseases and rejuvenation of the organism, for example. I'd like to know -- is it in Serbia, is there a fetal therapy in Serbia, does someone abuse abortions, and does it make me not know what kind of pomage for some smart-ass who wants to rejuvenate in this brilliant way? So, they're very sensitive things and I'm only citing examples, and I'm going to come up with the essence of what's wrong with this law. I want to show you a whole range of bioethical topics and dilemmas that are becoming more and more relevant in Serbia, because it is obvious that the predicate of the civil code and certain laws that come into the process is becoming increasingly violent on family morality, on traditional values, on religious learning that we trust people very important, that you have no right to deny us. So, learning, for example, our churches, I can quote you a few sentences, and it comes from the social doctrine of the Russian Orthodox Church, which has worked very closely and thoroughly on all bioethical topics at the highest spiritual and scientific level. Let's say, here's what he says about this topic we're discussing today. It says that modern transplantology, theory and practice of organ and tissue transplantation allow the provision of effective assistance to many patients who would without it be sentenced to imminent death or to severe disability. In the same frenzy, the development of this area of medicine due to an increase in the need for necessary organs is causing certain moral problems and can be dangerous to society. So it can be, it doesn't mean it's going to be, but it can be, like there's organ trafficking, like there's crime in that area. We all know it exists on a world level and we can't pretend it doesn't exist. So that's what there is, criminal trafficking in human organs. So, justifiable doubt that you don't get into such a situation in our country you just have to understand. Says the social doctrine of the Russian Orthodox Church. Unwittingly propagating donations and commercialising transplant practices create preconditions for human body parts, which endangers human life and health. The Dvori believe that the bodies of the human body cannot be considered objects of purchase and sale. The transplanting of the living donor's organs can only be based on voluntary self-sacrifice to save another man's life, and it's Christian and it's absolutely acceptable. So giving life for another, giving an organ for another is a completely Christian setting of things. In this case, the consent to the displantation of organs becomes an act of expression of love and compassion. There's nothing disputed about that. The potential donor, however, must be fully informed of the possible effects of organ implantation on his health. Morally inadmissible implantation that directly endangers the life of the donor. The most widespread practice, which is where we come into a number of problems with your bill, is the practice of taking organs from just deceased people. In such cases, any ambiguity regarding the determination of the moment of death must be excluded. It is unacceptable to shorten one man's life, as well as to give up actions that sustain life in order to extend another man's life. What I think is the problem with your whole concept of this law, therefore, the donation or legacy of such a kind of human organ cannot be considered a man's obligation. So it cannot be considered a man's obligation, which you in one indirect way introduce by this law. Therefore, voluntary consent is given to living conditions of legality and moral acceptance of the implantation, and that is the view of the Dvori. Voluntary giving of life organs, i.e. Signing a life card is morally acceptable. Everything else leaves room for serious manipulation and suspicion in the process. In the event that doctors are not familiar with the expressed will of a dying person or a dead man, they need to know by speaking, if necessary, to his relatives. The so-called presunction, the assumption of the consent of a potential donor to remove the organs or tissues of his body, which is foreseen by the legislation of a number of countries, are considered inadmissible and a violation of human freedom. So, you're in here halfway. You didn't go into complete assumed consent, and it was in the first drafts of the law, if I'm not mistaken. So we're all mandatory donors of our organs, so we have to find someone in the state somewhere, so we can stand up to it, so I don't know if we can sign that we can't, etc., which is a dangerous step in which the state totally intervenes in the right to privacy and starts to prescribe practically... You know what, the state becomes the owner of my human organs. I have to chase the state to somehow get out of that voluntary organ system. So, believe me, things are very sensitive and not at all playable. You stood on that path, so you brought back the closest relatives who still had to wonder in the event of a deceased person giving his organs, if he didn't make a legacy of life. So, you stopped halfway, but you opened Pandora's box where the state practically now obliges us all to be voluntary donors of our own organs and that we must now go out, so to speak, to defend ourselves against the state, to demand – no, these are my organs, wait for me to see etc. Why did we not remain on this voluntary donation of an organ that is a completely Christian, established, moral thing? Whoever will, please, here's the doctor's signature, has a card, every honor, everyone else who wants it is his right and his freedom, not that the state imposes it, and not that the state is opening Pandora's box of doubts about what might be behind it. So what can be behind it, as well as in fetal therapy, or potential very criminal activities of trafficking in human embryos of aborted children. Don't just tell me that it's a conspiracy theory now and that it's not done anywhere in the world, because this is a nice and civilized world. That's a flower, Mr. Minister. For Serbia, I asked you to guarantee that it is not in Serbia. I'm talking to you about the Western world, and you can guarantee that there is no trafficking in human embryos of aborted children in Serbia. And get behind it. So we're here with a whole series of very constructive amendments, you're going to pay attention to them, suggest certain things that we think are improving the existing text of the law. Please pay attention to them, because we were very constructive. First of all, we've been looking for a tightening of penalties, twice in every place in the law, for anyone who'd memorize any abuse in this area. So, since trust in the system forms the basis of voluntary giving and doubt itself can bring down the entire system, which has been happening in EU countries and has been followed by a catastrophic decline in giving. Because of the suspicion of a serious black business with high profits, criminal and criminal policies must be stricter. The opinion of the Dwri. You have a proposal for an amendment. Our addition to what you do to live donors should have priorities on the waiting list and other forms of health care. So whoever's for life as a donor must have some privilege in this health care system somewhere. You have an amendment on the subject as well. In one place we correct, in Article 25(4), where written consent is sought to collect cells, applies to the first law, that they can give both father and mother, if the second parent is unknown or has died, and not only the mother, as proposed in your bill, so pay attention to Article 25. Of course, we believe that inspection supervision of the performance in the field of human organs must be done more frequently, at least once a year in order to gain confidence in the work in this area, and that is what we have proposed. One sensitive subject on which I would like to keep your attention, which is the death of the persons, whether underage or deprived of your business skills, where you predict that for the taking of their organs, the Ethics Committee of the Health Institute, which is being educated in accordance with the law governing health care. We're changing that and we're suggesting that we do, but with the mandatory prior consent of the custody body. If that's understood, I'd like to ask him to enter the law. Article 23. We're well added to make that clear. What's this about? For taking human organs from a deceased minor without parental ageing, as well as for taking human organs from a deceased adult who is partially or completely deprived of his or her business ability, the mandatory consent of a legally designated guardian is necessary to prevent abuse and unauthorized use of organs. It's a simple thing. It is inadmissible that only the Ethics Commission of the Health Institute decides on the donation of the organs of these deceased persons, and that the decision-making process excludes the person or persons who took care of him for the lives of the deceased. In the case of minors, these are the most common parents of children distracted by development or children with disabilities, including those who, after the age of children, receive custody of them, as well as children who get custody of them because of their parents’ health problems, whether they are partially or completely deprived of their business skills. In both cases, it is the closest blood kinship or those close to the person they care about. Dismissing the guardian from the process of giving consent to donate the organs of the person over whom ageing has been committed is an ethical error and this amendment corrects the failure. If you've already predicted it at some other place of the law, I ask you to point it out, and if you haven't, I ask you to accept this amendment. So, what exactly did we want to help with the improvement of legal solutions? First of all, let's get the subject back to volunteering. So it's not our obligation to chase the state that we're not voluntary donors, it's that the state waits for those who want to be voluntary donors. The second thing, to make the system of criminal and criminal measures extremely harsh for anyone who would have thought of dealing with human organs and other manipulations, especially health workers, of course. And, thirdly, a little more privileges for organ donors in Serbia's health system and outside the system, of course, not only in the health system, but also outside the system. It's simple, so these people are willing to make a certain sacrifice, they're human, they should be rewarded. But leave as a volunteer and then we don't have any problems who we are within, let's say, Christian ethics and, at least for us believing people, we don't see any problem. Where do we see a big problem? It's the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Not because he's bad. You've done some good things about treating and rehabilitating a junkie. It's especially good that what we're going to track faster now is these new psychoactive substances, as we can see, that kill our children almost daily. But what you, Mr. Minister, cannot solve by this law is the central problem of this country when it comes to drug trafficking, which is the inability to track down drug traffickers and end up on a multi-year sentence and no one ever thinks about doing it again. So, the problem of why this law will remain, too, a dead letter on paper is in the police, in the prosecution, in the judiciary and in the media that actually protects that kind of promotion of narcotics and protects, of course, drug dealers. Then you have an association called St. Sava from Lazarec who publicly writes it by the name and last name of people who trade drugs in Lazarevec and we all know that they trade drugs in Lazarevec. Both in Cačka and in Dragan Vesovic in Kralje we know everyone who trades drugs, only the police don't know, only the prosecution doesn't know, and even when the police dared to arrest someone, even when the prosecution dared to prosecute someone, then there are judges who give very elegantly minor punishments, and so the drug dealer continues to do his job most normally. If we, for example, shot a dozen drug dealers, it would be an extremely valuable message to those who trade drugs. I think the degree of drug trafficking would have fallen sharply in Serbia. Just five to ten drug dealers to shoot or hang publicly on the Terrace. Maybe it looks rough, and it's not rough when they sell drugs to our kids? That's not harsh? And how many of our kids in your stats died because someone was selling it to them? He's still walking these streets and he's a respected citizen, maybe even a donor of the church, maybe even a donor of the church, maybe a politician, maybe how do I know which of the prominent people in this society, but some kids got hurt and somebody's got to get in their way. So, believe me, the death penalty is a small penalty for drug dealers. I don't care what kind of death penalty, but it's a small punishment, and until there's a dragon's criminal policy, these laws of yours will be a dead letter on paper. So, you're a drug dealer, you're caught as a drug dealer, even more as an organizer of a drug trafficking criminal group, so you'll never get out of jail unless our criminal law provides for a death sentence, because that's the only serious message to drug dealers, everything else, to get out in a year, so you know how much he's earned? What's wrong with him being in jail for a year more on state spending? At least to dig a canal, at least to work in a mine. No, he's enjoying himself, watching TV, and he's rich in drug trafficking. He comes out after a year, Mr. Man, and in the face of society, then he's got legal business and we're moving on. Wait, what do you mean by this law to solve this problem? Well, it's not the law on psychoactive controlled substances, it's the braver police, the braver prosecution, the unsuspecting judiciary, free media and citizens' associations like "Holy Sava" from Lazarets who dared as individuals, as citizens to come out on the street with drug traffickers. You know how brave that is? The police can't, but the citizen can. Now, this is for the order of the president of Serbia, what the people of St. Sava from Lazarec did. That instead of the state and those who are getting paid for it, the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, they are clashing publicly with drug dealers in their place. It's a magnificent courage. So my message here is very simple. Don't let this end as a law we've also supported, as far as blood transfusions are concerned. Nor did he live in all the four seats we predicted, nor did the central information system in Belgrade be created, nor did you do the blood work for the virusology. So, you pass a good law, the application is bad, and then we have a problem. So I ask you to pay attention to the application of the law, not just the legislation on paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41777	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41778	As far as the Transfusion Act is concerned, I just need one detail to remind you. He and when we brought him in was planned to fully live, to do all the necessary measures to be done, which can be checked and to be seen, for the first of January 2019. These centers are being transferred, and what's the point, speaking of the law, to remind you, we with the Transfusion Act from January 1st will have four centers and we'll get much better control of that blood. That's the point. We won't have that 15-day window where you might have a blood donor who's infected with HIV or something else, and it takes 15 days to figure that out. For this reason it goes to four centres because it is an extremely expensive analysis to do here and to have control that blood gets where it needs to be, and not someone because they're selfish, they won't give it to another, but – perhaps I will need it. I don't give a shit who needs it right now, but maybe I'll need it, and then we had a huge amount of blood that was dumped for that reason. We didn't have a single system to track how much blood he had and everyone reported it as they wanted. Since the first of January 2019, it goes with its dynamics that it needs and will live and that is the reason. Let me remind you. As for the transplant, why we're going now, that people who won't write on one piece of paper is enough – I don't want that, my data is you and you, to send it to the Biomedicine Authority or to go give an oral statement. Someone said you should go to the notaries, go somewhere, have some expenses. There's absolutely no such thing. Why are we going to this? Let's go because we're building a system with this law where it's not possible to access abuse. It's not possible. So it's made so you can't do any abuse without seeing it in the system and not notice it. That's why we have a problem now. If you think it's easy to get out in front of those two thousand and more people whose only way out is, and those who listen to us now and look, keep in mind only them and their families whose only salvation is for them and their children to stay with them, because if there is no donor, there will be none. That's the essence of the story. We think it's so designed that you can't take that abuse without saying that it can't be seen, that you can't do it. You know, Serbia is like this, you can't do anything here without knowing, let alone something in some process where there are 20.30.40.50 people who have to participate, that you take an organ, that you sell an organ. First we have to say, this is all done on a voluntary basis. The body cannot be paid, neither in Serbia nor anywhere in these countries that have been developed. We didn't do the law by reputation. We worked it to ensure ourselves and our citizens and our system. Don't, now let's be like that, now, we've taken an example from other laws, I don't have any problem telling people who have experience. But don't say it now - well, we don't want those laws, and tomorrow when someone gets sick, then you say, let me go, now let me go to that country to heal myself, you know. That's not correct. So these are the things we've been taking care of, the things we're taking care of, and what I honestly think with this law, with respect for these procedures, without which we haven't gotten into this story, I don't think we're going to have a problem, the problem is consciousness. As for you, you mentioned the church, we have the consent of the church for all of this. We asked the church to agree, and we got to know them, talk to them, and get written consent to this from the church, and I want you to know that all citizens know it. That's why it's been waiting a little longer, because it's not easy to change people's minds. That's why we wanted the broader consensus, the more naive, the easier it is. Dozens of people die annually only in Serbia, which is not welcomed by the organ. We had to do something. There will always be different opinions, you could do this, we could do this, we could do this, but I think it's important that we work, because if we don't do anything, if we're going to back off and let us talk about some topics that have nothing to do with the brain. I'm glad today, one thing, that citizens could see someone treating someone what life means to someone, what he talked about, how he talked, and how he went to some self-reliance, to get some space in the media and stuff. Then they're surprised they're at the level of statistical error. Well, that's why they're at a level of statistical error and they're getting smaller and smaller every day. Because, simply, when it comes to important things, they see how they're going to come to terms, how they're going to think they're insulting or something. So that's what this story is all about. As far as drugs are concerned, I don't know if it's ever been done again, talked more. I think it's important to talk about it as much as possible. What's our goal, I think it's pretty late when it comes to someone taking drugs. Our plan is to work with the children of five years, not to come and not to take, to resist the temptation of these drug dealers, and all those who come, not to take it, that's our primary goal, to raise their awareness that they can defend themselves against them. Do you see, I don't remember, I don't know, I may not have followed enough, but every day, pounds and pounds, or I don't know, tens of pounds of drugs are taken away. It's taken away, but there's still one, because one goes to jail, one goes down, one gets taken away, but it's obviously such a business, where they don't give up, besides all that. One of the first things we've talked about on this drug council right now, that we're going to go with a proposal to raise those fines. But it is a Penal Code, or whatever it is, that these penalties should be lifted and that we, as the Commission, will be asked to enter the procedure so that we can submit this proposal to be the strictest penalties. I have no problem with anyone who sells that and who's going to kill a child for a few thousand dinars. I don't have any mercy, I don't have any understanding, I want him in jail for life. So he'd better be in jail for life than one kid dead. What I tell them, let them do some other things, I'll breathe behind their necks, I won't give them peace, because of those kids. We fight for the kids, for the birth rate, someone gets a kid easier, someone gets a kid harder, goes through Tantalus's troubles, and then you raise him, and then you train him, and then there's this period where someone gets him on some raft, or somewhere, in a couple thousand dinars he kills. Someone's killing him. Yes, it is. You know. But you see, you always have those who have an ex-post mind and know everything, and they're lucky they're in that place and they have the support they have and they pass. But we'll keep fighting, and they'll just have to talk and complain about past times, when they've been working with all of them, or whatever they've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41779	The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41780	I thank the president. Dear Presidents, Ministers with Associates, Representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have very important health laws ahead of us, and above all, I would like to stress that the PS-NSS-USS Group will support the draft laws on the agenda today. The very fact that these laws are before us today tells us that we have evolved and that we have progressed as a society, especially as much as most of the opposition, especially those who are of the profession also support these laws and say they are good and will have results. Some of you also thank the one system we've had so far, which is donor cards. They say all of this on the agenda today can be just abuse. I don't agree with that, and I think we should all agree when we're talking about this subject that shouldn't be politicized at all. We say -- these laws that are before us actually say that we tried a system that we saw didn't work, we tried, we saw that annually, as is said today, some 15 donor cards were signed and 30 young people die annually. This tells us that the laws that are before us really need to produce some results, because we are changing what has been so far and moving in another direction. We have before us a bill on human cells and tissues and a bill on human organ transplants. Both clearly and accurately show some of the conditions under which certain jobs will be carried out, such as donations, donations, acquisitions, testing, etc. as well as predicting health institutions that will be able to compete to deal with these business areas, both human cells and tissues, and by transplanting organs, which can also be banks of these same cells. The register of stem cell donors is also defined and can also be used through the registry to reach non-compared donors and provide transplant cells. This law protects those who don't want to be donors. As full-time citizens, they can sign a ban in writing or say by mouth that they do not want to be donors or their families after death, if it is a dead person, they can also prevent organ donations, which means that we in this law have many ways to prevent abuse, also control, then criminal and criminal penalties, etc. but this is also how you provide continuity in work. We've got doctors who are further perfected and an increase in donor numbers. We have before us the law on human organs transplantation and the proposal for this law make a change for our society, because every citizen will be a potential organ donor. With this law, I think we're really getting more humane. According to data from this year, about 2,000 people are waiting for a transplant. Some of the liver, some of the hearts, over 1,000 of them are waiting for a kidney transplant. I can't imagine what it's like one day in the life of those patients going on dialysis. It's all about, in some vicious circle, they're waiting for this call they may never get, and now this new law, which is before us today, and which I really hope we'll adopt in the voting day, they're getting some new chance and some new hope for their life to extend. Serbia needs it, according to the statistics, at least 10 donors per million people, and we said there were about 15 donor cards a year, and there were fewer years later. So I would point out once again that, as I said, 30 young people die annually and that this law really is some kind of change compared to what we had and gives us a chance to try to change things, because there are a lot of experts in Serbia. We're doing a really serious job, and we have new centres where transplants are done, and this way and by adopting this law, we can really change something for the better. Since this topic is very important, a lot of colleagues have discussed only her, I would just briefly say something about selecting candidates as judges. These are very important functions, depending on them on the future of our country, in a way we shape and create an environment for us. Here are the biographies in front of us, but I wouldn't comment too much on the biography, but I would just say that the proposed young people, which I think will bring in the paper, I think will increase efficiency, and above all, what's most important for all of us, that's the independence of the judiciary. Also, the way and criteria used in the election are very important. It shows here that most of them are either from courts or from the Judicial Academy, which says that a decision that is just and right in front of us and that these are people who have a lot of experience in these affairs. This topic should not be politicized. I certainly won't be back on the subject in 2009 and cutting down judges, when over 730 were fired, or removed from the office of 730 judges, because they were not politically alike. I don't think we do it that way today. I find the judiciary more and more independent. I'm not going back to that ugly subject. I would like to remind myself of something positive that we have done so far, which is the vote of the law that we adopted to invest 20m euros in the Court of Justice, which has not been reconstructed for 40 years, the construction of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime 11m euros, the reconstruction of a military-technical institute for the needs of judicial authorities, worth 10m euros. As we see today, both in health care and in the judiciary, positive changes happen. We are really here, we want to support it, and that is why in the voting day we will support all the laws that are before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41781	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41782	I thank the chairman. The minister's out of the O.R., so I'm sorry he won't hear the opening part. So when these three medical laws that are spoken of dominantly today in the National Assembly came, I sincerely expected it to be the laws of the 22nd century. It turns out that at least one of them is the law, in fact, of a technical nature, which changes essentially the law that is current. It's the first law, it's the Law of Human Cells and Tissues. I'm going to have to tell you a personal situation I've had in favor of this law. I am very sorry that this law, unfortunately, is not much better, or more advanced, than it has come before us today. So, somewhere in February 2017, I had my first chance to get acquainted with this law and by unfortunately hurting myself abroad, I hurt my leg and then I was transported to Belgrade and I was admitted to the emergency service in Belgrade. The orthopedic that was that day is the orthopedics of Banja Rica. I was very lucky, so it just happened by accident that I was received by a doctor who works at the Banjica Institute, using stem cells for therapeutic purposes. Curious, as I am, so, while the review took place, while my leg was being recorded, while we talked about what further and how, the doctor shared with me the information that he was working on this scientific project and I can tell you that it was an extremely interesting content of this project, so I was still interested in what was going on with this project. Namely, it is the co-operation between the Institute of Molecular Genetics and Genetic Engineering in Serbia, so I was under the auspices of the project, and today it is under the auspices of the Ministry of Education, and precisely because the Ministry of Health, because it was an imminent collaboration with the orthopedics in Banjaca, supported this project. I've had opportunities, so, as this ISIS already works, to schedule a review, unfortunately it's not exactly the way we expected it to be, so when you schedule a review, for example. At eight, you wait all day. So I've been waiting for some control, meeting one of the patients on whom this method was applied. It was an older lady, who was waiting for a practical transplant at the Banjica Institute, or as the termologically and correctly were said to be, waiting for her artificial knees to be implanted. The two of us were sitting in the waiting room, she told me the course of that procedure, the way she went, the way the stem cell therapy was applied, and then she told me how simple it was the procedure, that it was only a day's stay, and it was her control. So it's 2017. She's a patient who was treated in 2015. After a few hours of our conversation and the exchange of experiences as far as her case is concerned, she's the most normal one to get off the chair, so it's a patient who's been waiting for her to be implanted with an artificial knee, got off her chair and went to the doctor's office without any medical help, in the sense of a stick, a crutch or anything like that. So I was then impressed by the results of the use of stem cells for therapeutic purposes, and I was, frankly, expecting that when this law came on the amendment and the addition, then I met what was needed to change in this law in order to be applied in this area, I was sincerely disappointed that when this law arrived in the assembly procedure, I received a 22nd century law, believing that there was potential for this to develop in Serbia, that we would become a leader in the region in the area of stem cell application. I need to describe this project a little bit. I think it's not bad to get to know the citizens as well as how it can work, and at the same time remind you that we can do this to the common forces in the sense that if we come across the good will of the MPs, the Ministry of Health, we can work on making this law become the law at some point in time in the 22nd century. So this is about multiplying stem cells that are taken from the patient's mass tissue, it's about mesenchymic cells, and that's why this in this law isn't recognized among other things, because it's not about the intervention that's being performed at the same time, like when you have autologous tissue transplants, and then in the same procedure you change the tendon or whatever it takes. It takes a time period to pass here, and that's why this process is called stem cell multiplication. Therefore, it was necessary, among other things, to amend the Law on Cells and Tissues. Which, let me say, are the advantages of changing, which would be the advantages, and it's just the use of stem cells in orthopedics and only on hips and knees, because that's what this science project was doing. The project would cost, or intervention would cost between 10% and 20% less than the intervention of installing artificial hips or artificial knees where there is room for it. Not all situations, so not all patients, I'm glad you agree, I was really impressed by what I had the chance to see at the time, so I'm glad it's an opportunity for the citizens to get to know each other, so not all patients have to have their knees or hips in place. So it can be done in a different, less invasive and much easier way for a patient, so it's simpler for the health system itself in Serbia in the sense that patients don't take over the bed needlessly and can release it for a patient who's harder, for whom, I say, the bed is more necessary. The second thing, I've already stated, is that it's something more favourable than just working on the installation of artificial hips or knees, it speeds up the flow of people on those waiting lists. I know you've been waiting for two, three years, and sometimes that goes on because they have more urgent patients and things like that. So a series of circumstances that often extend these waiting lists. It's also in the rehabilitation process. Practically, patients are prepared immediately and can return to their, say, normal circumstances, to lead a better quality life than they've led. Thus, the procedure after all these interventions, in the sense that they have to go to different physical treatments in the physiotherapist and similar or in the process of rehabilitation by spas and so on, so there is some room for patients who can do more because patients who have the opportunity to treat themselves in this way can be so rehabilitated. One more thing that's not a small advantage if this were to be introduced, it's that there are other significant amounts of blood that we're in need of, that we could use for some other interventions. Advantage is, among other things, what can be used on those patients where, where we don't have orthopaedic aids in terms of some other joints, such as elbows, like, I don't even know exactly everyone, elbow, jump joint, fist, foot, wrist. Therefore, there is no possibility of implanting artificial joints and therefore the use of stem cell therapy in these places would be much more acceptable and would be more meaningful and, among other things, to those patients where, from technical circumstances, it is not possible to perform a transplant from some other objective circumstances, if they are heart patients, renal patients, if they are on insulin and the like. The advantage is that every surgeon can do this intervention, too, does not require any special specialization. For the Minister of Health, informing myself of this subject, I know that you've been performing liver transplant interventions, if I've sent it well, and that it's one of your specialties. Surely then you know how much less knowledge it takes to inject or take fat tissue from which stem cells could be extracted. So we've had a series of advantages and we're doing it in Serbia. Since 2015, this project has been a success and I, going to check in, have regularly seen patients who are also being controlled by the same doctor. They don't have much, it's a small sample, 15 patients seem to have, and they all feel good. It's obvious that therapy is working. We have space, we have experts, we have opportunities to deal with this topic far more and more seriously than we do today. When I was dealing with this law, among other things, I had to inform myself what it was necessary to change that, when I informed myself, I wanted it to be my proposal in front of the Centre Movement, however, the problem is that at least two laws should be changed. One that we are changing today, and unfortunately we are changing it in those circumstances that are most needed, and these are the technical circumstances, so we are changing something that was inevitable to change, because in practice it proved to be not good, and it was necessary to change the Health Protection Act, so that another group of scientists and professionals in our country would be recognized as health workers, which are geneticists, or microbiologists, who could stay in this country and deal with this particular topic. So, a wide range of advantages of taking and producing stem cells from man's fat tissue. I'm not a doctor, but I can say that this would be a terrible business plan for me, and I think we could put Serbia in a central place in Europe as regards the application of stem cell therapy. Therefore, changes in the Health Protection Act can be made so that genetic laboratories that could work on the territory of the entire country, because it is problematic, among other things, and the time of transport of stem cells from the patient or from the laboratory to where they will be applied, a very high percentage is lost from an hour to an hour, so the question is, for example, whether transport would be possible from Belgrade to Vranja at all. I'd like to see if it might be possible in some near future to get rid of it, even if the state supports young geneticists, in that sense to keep us smart in the state and to develop a branch and that we can adequately treat our patients in an adequate way, to extend it even to countries in the environment, and in that sense, I think we can become regional leaders. Serbia is widely known for its favourable and quality services in the field of medicine. It's no secret that famous athletes come here to operate, it's no secret that the most common members of the pretty sex come to cosmetic treatments and stuff, so it's not a secret and it can be worked out. If these branches have succeeded, I don't see any reason why the state couldn't even help young geneticists to open labs like this because apparently medical experts in terms of doctors do. That way we can further motivate them to stay in this country. So that's one of the ways we can motivate them here. This is also a newspaper in the world. This isn't just about us. However, this was recognised by the European Union, so it called for some kind of regulation in 2007 – hospital expansion and is just talking about this situation that I described, that this is not an analogue transplant within a medical procedure, but that it has to be a multiplication, so that it is two separate processes. But since it's not an invasive process, and since it's not about two different donors, or one donor or recipient, it's also a donor and recipient at the same time, I don't think there would be any burning and there's no fear that this clause could be misused at some point. In 2012, only six countries used this. At this point, it's 11 countries. So this is spreading pretty much. People hear it's being applied, done and used, and there's no big fear of abuse. I won't look back on the details of the law. I appeal to you, Minister, to stop the expenditure of the amendment time on meaningless amendments. I haven't talked about the technical problems under this law, considering that the principle debate is for this, but I would like to sort of get into a situation where we can agree on a common sense to improve and technically this law. This means that in those times that are intended for amendments, let us also agree to discuss technical matters, i.e. the difficulties that we have found, regardless of what MP group we are dealing with. As for the organ transplant law, the most famous expert is Dusan Scepanovic, a doctor at a clinic in Tirshovo. I'm going to quote at the beginning and we're going to support this law. He has an excellent quote drawn from the Helsinki Declaration and often uses it that says – the civilization and cultural level of development of a European country and its health system is measured by the number of transplants made from the deceased. In January 2017, you, Minister, went public with information that we signed an agreement with a European organisation called Eurotransplant. But after some time, by the end of the year, it has been discovered that we have failed, in fact, to enter that organization, one of the challenges is that we don't have enough donor numbers to even get a condition to join this great and noble community. It is also devastating that in 2013, we had little less than six donors per million, and that today we have under two donors per million inhabitants and that we need to raise awareness in public to motivate people to donate their organs without fear. I don't agree with the colleagues who spoke here about conspiracy theories. This works successfully in many countries in the world, we have an environment in Croatia where it works perfectly fine. So, I don't see any fear in it, nor my parliamentary group. We will support this law, with the desire that even in the public message that goes on about this law will not be used from time to time for tabloid bickering what can not God allow to happen and not to list all the titles related to this topic. I'd really like it to continue with the promotion of this. I think it's a good thing that it's going to go to presumption of consent, compared to having to date to give consent to the written path, because first it's a slow process, my brother wrote a request, that is, when it's been promoted, the process really takes a long time, you have to send a request, and then you get that request back, or you get the card, and it's really been overcomplicated and demotive for people who really want to do it. I think the assumed consent in this sense will make sense if the Ministry of Health, whose head you are, makes every effort to stop manipulating information in this way that you're doing it today. People fear justifiably because they have nothing to take away that fear from them. So they don't have the word of the Ministry of Health, they don't have the word of an expert, and the only information they have is abuse. Therefore, the Ministry of Health must work to inform citizens on a timely, timely and true basis about what are the advantages of raising public awareness that it is necessary to have a higher number of organ donors. Anyway, I think this is going to be better than the previous solution because so far we've only got a little less than 150,000 registered donors. I sincerely hope that the adoption of this law will raise the number of donors and that at some point we will finally enter the Eurotransplant network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41783	Thank you. Minister Loncar, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41784	First of all, I want to thank you for looking at the problems in this way and looking at the bill's proposals, that there are several people who look at them in this way and who get into the essence. Then you could see what you had to do to make one thing, a very simple thing, when you look at one intervention that has a lot of advantages, so that you would just legalize that intervention, how much law you have to change, how many other sublegal acts, statutes, from the hospital itself, and through specialization, colleges, ministries, to make it work by the simplest principle, to have a purpose, to reduce waiting lists, not to be an invasive method, to be a minimally invasive method, to be a good effect. You see how much it takes to do this, we're doing this right now, but it stays, it's one of our next laws, the Health Protection Act, to change all of it, to combine all of it to make it work, to get into the phase, that what you're proposing, to be leaders in the region and everything else, we have to... . But it's all visible and it's all possible. That's what I'm telling you, it's going to be two, three years from now, to get all these accompanying things to do and to have enough experience by then, and to have a whole system that's regulated for our citizens, too, depending on them to help other citizens and to restore the system in Serbia. I think you're just more clear now what this system is and what it takes to do in one small step to move on. People look at it from one side, each of them is the biggest problem, and they want it to be solved right away, and if his problem isn't solved, all the other problems are irrelevant and not solved and everything is the worst. We understand that, but we're trying to fix all these things, the only thing that needs to be done is when someone comes in like this to have time to deal with these things, God forbid they have to get to know each other personally, and then you just come across some understanding. As for the promotion and everything, there is no better promotion than when you and your peers say so. Whatever we say, from the Ministry, at the end of the people we appoint for the republican expert commissions, they translate it into the field of politics and say it; they don't say it politically, lie to us, this, that and so on. You can't just influence the media, they write whatever they want, or we try, because if you say "so don't do this, put that on" it will always be the other way around. It's just our only goal is that the ultimate citizen who comes into this situation, that he feels, that's the most important thing to us. When there's a word of those who have passed something, who have seen it, it's for us the best promotion. So we'll keep doing that. Don't expect us to go out, because even if you say, you know, this is how this is, these are advantages, you're going to have five louder ones who are stronger in the media, who are going to want to make it all go away. So we have one way to do this, to change the laws and literally get to every citizen, to make them feel like they're changing it, and then there's nothing anyone, or the media, or anything, can just talk about, but as you can see, they don't talk about the subject, they talk about some things that hurt them, and in the end, citizens see everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41785	Thank you. The word is Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41786	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, honourable ministers with associates. Members of the SNS express satisfaction because the health laws are back in the assembly benches. When we talk about health, when we talk about health care, about health laws, we kind of start to think, not just as MPs, and as people who deal with politics, but certainly deeply human. Today's proposal for a set of health laws, I see and see as a sincere wish of the Ministry of Health that all those legal definitions, which have not in practice proved to be good, in some earlier period, are better and more optimal. In fact, I'm going to mention a few significant, not just details, but the big things that are in these bill proposals. First of all, as far as law is concerned, it is the Law on cell and tissue transplantation, first of all I can say that one of the most important legal solutions is definitely the definition of the conditions that health institutions will perform, and I am talking about the activity of cell and tissue transplants. In this proposal for a law, it is defined that certain institutions will deal mainly with the work of donations, i.e. the donation of cells and tissues, then the testing of cells and tissues, and what is very important, the distribution, while other health institutions, of course, which meet all the conditions prescribed by law, will be engaged in storage, i.e. banks of cells and tissues. This is especially important because for the first time in this way, work is clearly defined, so the work that certain institutions will do. This is especially important because in the current legal act, the current law had a collapsing of these, to say the legal members who defined dealing with this problem. In addition to this very important thing being solved, I'm going to mention the definition of registers of progenitors of haematopoiesis. Namely, I believe that by establishing this register, so registering the progenitor of the progenitor cells of hematopiesis, primarily the largest benfit, will be the greatest benefit of patients who do not have related stem cell donors. There are patients who do not have related stem cell donors who are waiting for an adequate one, therefore, who will respond to the appropriate heilatation at one point. With such a register, such patients will get to stem cells faster, such patients will be treated more quickly. That's the essential thing, and that's why I welcome absolutely this second aspect of this bill. Also, I would like to emphasise the importance of a simplified procedure for obtaining appropriate permits, I am now talking about health institutions that will apply for appropriate permits. Also, I'd like to apostrophe that part of the law that talks about how to simulate, simplify the process of cell and tissue giving itself. I see that this proposal is also made in line with the proposal concerning organ transplants, which is the principle, to say, assumed consent where every adult, or adult in our country, can be declared not to donate their cells and tissues, any adult can be declared to want, but it is essential that, above all, based on the legislative regulation which has given its results and is applied abroad, I think that these institutions have applied it here, or that they are practically the closest blood relatives to this definitive decision to use cells and tissues. In addition to these newspapers, I would say that, in parallel to these legal solutions that I mentioned, it is necessary to establish valid inspection supervision with them. Just inspection is one of the items that are very well defined in the law. Namely, I would like to commend one fact that the Biomedicine Administration is now defined as the title holder, as the holder of all of this and the Biomedicine Administration must also be not only the institution and coordinator of the entire transplant procedure but also the inspector. In addition to this law, we also have in the proposal a bill on organ transplants. The proposal for an organ transplant law was indeed necessary, i.e. a new law. Why is that? We have so far had the power of the Institute of Informed Consensus. What was that about? Each adult was able to sign willingly through certain administrative cheeks the consent that postmortem, i.e. in the event of brain death, would be agreed to use its organs. However, by obtaining a donor card, which was the continuation of the administrative procedure, it was not sufficient evidence that these bodies were actually used in the transplant process. Then, again, the whole procedure was conditioned by the closest relatives giving consent, and then the question arises – why donor cards, then administrative procedures, what costs? I think that these legal institutes, which are in this bill, are the key, first of all, to finally increase the number of cadaveric transplants. I think that all those legal solutions that some other countries have introduced as legal institutes in their legislative health practice we must use and exploit in the best possible way. It is this legal proposal that we will get the possibility that if a full - age adult does not want to donate organs can be orally or in writing declare that he does not want to and that ultimately, the final court gives the nearest blood relative, or guardian or parent in the case of a minor. The countries that have the largest number of cadaverial transplants in Spain, Austria, Belgium right now have such an institute in their health legislation and therefore I am convinced that, with such a legislative framework and an adequate promotion of transplants, which I think is the essential thing, in addition to the legislative framework, we will result. In addition to these newspapers, I would mention that this law also defines the conditions that health institutions need to meet in order to deal with this activity, on the one hand, the institution dealing with the work of donating, testing, expansion, organ distribution and, on the other hand, so on. Donor of the hospital. Today, in Serbia, I personally believe that any unit of intensive care can be a donor hospital and that, in my opinion, is the principle of getting results. In addition, I think the very important thing that is also a defined law, which needs to be further elaborated by sublegal acts, is to define a republican human organ transplant program. Why does this program matter? Because it will definitely involve organisation, team organisations, funding organisations, coordination between not only the Biomedicine Administration and team transplants, but also the Biomedicine Administration, on the one hand, our administrations and other biomedicine administrations and similar institutions in other countries, because it will only establish an adequate coordination and co-operation that will result in an increase in cadaverial transplants and a reduction of waiting lists for organs. Also, a very important thing that is not only important because it will bring peace into the public is important because we will have clear data on how many organs and organs we have available, how many potential patients are waiting for those organs, and that is a unique information system that will have all the data in our palm. And what's very important is the principle of monitoring the organ itself from the moment of donation and implantation to the moment of organ transplant. This is important not only because of statistics, but because we have to follow. It's so-called. The principle of traceability, which is mentioned here, but we must follow the way of donating each organ individually. Bringing in the promotion program. The promotion program, as I pointed out in my presentation, I think it may be the most important thing. We're going to get these legislation frameworks, this frame, these margins, within which we're going to move, but the transplant promotion program is essential. Why do I say that? Our people, as well as all nations, have their specificities, has their own special, specific notion of death, understanding and attitude towards the deceased man, towards each branch individually. We must break certain prejudices through the promotion program. We must promote the transplant as the noblest thing a man can do. I'm talking about organ donation now and only on the principle of transplant promotion we can achieve the result. I'd like to stress clear inspection here again. Donorship, i.e. organ transplants, is an even more sensitive field than cell and tissue transplants, and for these reasons, I think a significant personnel strengthening of the Biomedicine Administration. Also, I think that significant financial resources should be allocated to the Biomedicine Authority and to define the personnel that will exclusively be engaged in inspection supervision in this area. I mean not only the inspection supervision that will be carried out in this regard to a particular health institution, whether or not they meet the conditions prescribed by law, but what I was talking about before, which is the principle of traceability, therefore, monitoring the flow and monitoring of the pathways of each organ in particular. As for the Law on Psychoactive and Controlled Substances, I can say that this law passed a public debate during and during the public debate, the largest number of objections concerned the cultivation of industrial hemp and use of cannabis oil for medical purposes. As far as this first problem is concerned, it's the concentration of the active substance, it's tetrahydrocanabinol, in industrial hemp, all of these remarks were adopted by an earlier, or existing law. We had a precisely defined percentage of the active substance in industrial hemp. If these remarks hadn't been adopted, the economy would have had certain consequences, so we have a clean story of apropo. The pure story is also the apropo of these other things I heard during this debate today. First of all, from a medical point of view, I'm talking about the medical and professional public attitude, accepting the use of cannabis oil is simply not the way. Why? Because cannabis oil does not cure disease, it purchases certain symptoms, because there are already medicines that are made on the basis of an active substance of cannabis, which are used precisely to eliminate these symptoms, such as nausea, such as cough, etc., so that every story in this direction must be based solely on professional arguments and evidence and I think that as responsible people we must accept them only. In addition to these newspapers and these changes, a very important part of the law that speaks of the introduction of an early warning system of new psychoactive substances, where this system will contribute to the fact that all new psychoactive substances that enter the country and which are unfortunately used in the population are very quickly analysed, very quickly define their harmful properties and very quickly establish the measures that will contribute to stopping that monster. Then, establishing a national contact point for the transfer of samples of seized drugs. The establishment of a national contact point is one very important thing that is important in international terms because precisely effective co-ordination in the area of criminal investigations at international level will be possible thanks to this so-called. Contact points. Then, the introduction of conditions that would allow the functioning of a national system for the collection of data on psychoactive controlled substances and that is one very important part of the law. In the end, what do I really think these laws are going to change in general? First of all, I think a whole new level of safety will be introduced, a higher level of safety in cell and tissue transplants. I think we're going to increase, of course, in line with the adequate transplant promotion program, that we're going to increase the number of cadaveric transplants. I think together with all these moves, actions, divisions, we'll be able to reduce the number of patients waiting for certain organs. What is most important, I believe, is that in this way, with an adequate legal framework, we will restore the trust of the citizens in the most noble part of medicine, which is organ donation, i.e. transplanting. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that these are the very laws that we will all be proud of together when we are not MPs tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41787	Thank you. We're moving on to the list of MPs. First speaker, Muamer Zukorlic. A lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go. (Dusan Milisavljevic: I answer the word. What do you say? Did you get that? (Dusan Milisavljevic: As authorized, you did not ask. All right. Thank you. I am not obliged to ask after every speech if anyone else, since, I apologize, just to explain, the debate will open at 10:45 this morning, so I am not obliged to encourage MPs to participate. Come in, then Ljupka Mihailovska will come after you. I'm sorry, the deputy secretary general said, then you speak after the list, and that's somewhere in the afternoon tomorrow. I'm sorry. A lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41788	Thank you. We've solved the misunderstanding. I'm going to refer first of all to the amendment of the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. My first remark will be, in fact, that there is no minister of police here with us today when we talk about this subject. You honor the minister, of course, but we all know, only one who doesn't want to see it doesn't know that the key problem when it comes to drug use in Serbia lies with the police. You here in the light of the law, among other things, state: “It is necessary to improve the conditions for the storage of permanently withdrawn quantities of intoxicated drugs and to fully launch a system for the destruction of drug taken away. “ Somewhere, as some average reader, I come to the conclusion that we do not have a developed drug disposal system and then logically again, as an average reader, raises the question of what is going on with the drugs we confiscate? Is it distributed on the streets of our city and ends, unfortunately, in the bodies of our youth? Who distributes that drug and does the people who seized it, or the officials who are involved in this, actually? What I was expecting in the hope of amending and supplementing the law first of all, at this point they are making a suggestion, or because of the relentless events that we have all witnessed in the past, and it concerns a significant number of young people who have passed away from overconsummation of various types of drugs. However, it explains that the public debate was concluded early last year, so that this law only makes some technical changes but has no substance. There are no sanctions, more severe sanctions for police officers and other security forces that can participate in drug trafficking actions. There are no such sanctions in the Criminal Code either. Simply to express myself, there must be a special circle of Hell for people who work in police and other security forces if they abuse their position by dealing drugs and thus bringing certain people into mortal danger. Also, often mentioned is the Drug Monitoring Group and Drug Dependence Group, and spends all the time explaining how important it is to function. She, as far as I understand it, currently has three employees and has been planning to hire two more people since 2019, which is again a European recommendation and turns out to be that all the problems we have with drugs will be solved when these five people are engaged. However, there is no substance in the law. There's no essential way to solve the problem of human treatment, because we'll agree that this is a disease, and since we don't judge people who are cancer, we can't condemn even people who, unfortunately, are sick of this monster. So, there's no point in resociating, you'll also find on Insider's site yesterday that there's a device for detecting new drugs donated by the EU, which we don't. I don't know if that's the right thing to do, but I hope you guys can tell me what's going on with that machine. You'll probably get me back on the drug strategy. However, this strategy is also very disputable, given that I will be honest, it explains that we do not have almost any statistics when it comes to the simplification of the use of psychoactive substances. So the strategy had some action plan that expired. It is planned to bring a new one in the first quarter of 2018. We're in the third quarter, as far as I'm concerned, there's no new action plan. However, I say, we question the quality of this strategy when it is practically not based on some reliable data. You here say in your explanation, so far there has been no evaluation of the preventive programs previously implemented in the institutions. It says, the starting value for the number of treated addicts cannot be determined with certainty because there is currently no system for collecting data at national level. We don't have information about the programs being implemented, so we're giving it as a target to introduce new ones. So we haven't evaluated the ones we've had, and we want to introduce new ones. I don't know, I've always found it fascinating how in the season we can determine the number of flu patients, and we can't have information about the number of people being treated for addiction. All in all, this law doesn't know what it will bring. The conclusion we've come to is that we don't have the data. I've really tried every possible way to get some relevant data, and all I've found is a 2014 Batut research. Leading statistics to the soul is not just a flaw in this area, otherwise we resent it, and international institutions, as we are very scarce with statistics in most areas. So I don't even know what we're going to discuss here, except to stick to these technical changes to the law and eventually rely on examples from the immediate environment, on what we find in the media. First of all, I don't think about these young people who have succumbed to this terrible thing, but I also think about public figures that are not praised by their appearances to consume drugs. Even if they don't brag, they seem to illustrate it quite well. Some, unfortunately, are both the most powerful people in the country and in financial power and in connection with influential people at the top of the government. I'm wondering, really, when are we going to approach this problem seriously? Whether we wait for the children of public figures or politicians to die or not will be sufficient. I'm asking that the country is seriously committed to solving this big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41789	Thank you. Minister Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41790	I thank you for this observation of yours. What's important is to tell you that what's going to happen now in these laws, especially the law that you mentioned, about psychoactive substances, is a prerequisite to get everything that you've been talking about that we're missing. There, that's the point. That's why we've done all this to have the data, to have the information system, to have everything. I have to tell you that we found a system where you didn't have one hospital, a home of health, tied up in the same place in the same yard, they had different systems that weren't compatible, and you couldn't tie up that data, they wouldn't come out uniquely, we want to get that diagnosis, we have so many patients, so much answer. So, from this situation, let's not talk about psychoactive substances and everything that's happened. Of course, when something starts to work, then people see it's starting to work, then they want more and it's going. It is good for me that you have seen it, and that you have recognized it. But these have gone to do something, and they will do something, and they will do something. Let me explain, this is a prerequisite to start with, to have as much data as they have, how many of them are used by some psychoactive substances, that use some drugs, that use something third, something fourth, alcohol and stuff like that. You have to make a cut at one point to know where you're going. The second thing that matters to you is this thing of international co-operation, you were wondering where the drugs are, where the drugs are, so for the reason that the drugs were in the police stations, the courts, extremely safe and risky for those people who come in contact with her, we're just doing it now. Now, to tell me -- you know, it wasn't like that. I think we can pass all the laws in a year, two, three days from all the areas that are torturing us and that we have found. I'm telling you it's impossible, but at least we're working, at least we're fighting, at least we're looking for more and more of these laws every time and we're trying to find a priority. Only in health care would we have to be here for a year in the congregation, not to go out at all, to put everything in the way everyone wants to be and still not be happy. So we need to figure out where these psychoactive substances are going, how they're being guarded. So far, we haven't had the opportunity to transfer that psychoactive substance to another lab abroad without talking about other things. The government's commission had to carry out the transport and burn of that drug, so just remember how much we burned in that thermo power plant a ton of drugs that stood, which, because of some laws, had to be there, you shouldn't have touched it, and that was the case. So it's sinking and sinking, you remember it's probably those pictures, that it's not some risk, that someone doesn't get in touch with it, that someone doesn't take it, that someone doesn't steal it, that someone doesn't sell it, that we sort things out. So these are the facts that were until yesterday. Now, this is a condition to introduce the system and that we can then function, that everyone knows how it's going to work. Is that gonna be enough, are we gonna root out drugs, psychoactive substances? Of course we won't, but we won't give them peace and it won't be easy for them to carry out what they've been trying to do so far. Of course we're going to be pushing for an increase in this criminal policy, because first of all, we care about our children, not about the dealers. That's what this is all about. If we succeed in this, then when we do it, we just have to stick to it and do it, because then we'll just have an open path to do all these things that haven't gone like that before.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41791	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41792	Thank you, President. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable Associates of the Office for Biomedicine, Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, as a doctor with long-term work experience, I would like to say that the proposed health laws that are on today's agenda sessions are very well-conceived, very thoroughly prepared, extremely necessary, more than applicable in the near perspective and above all noble, or human character. I want to say in my public statement what the term of transplant medicine means and what qualified him as the top of medical science. Transplant medicine is a very important, modern treatment method that is for many patients the only therapeutic pathway to healing and often the preservation of their lives. Transplantation is a form of treatment of a non-functional organ or destroyed tissue by transplanting a healthy, appropriate donor organ by surgical intervention. This way of treatment in the world has been increasingly applied over the last 40 years. Kidney transplants are the most frequently performed surgery. When talking about kidney transplants, it should be pointed out that she is four times cheaper than haemodialysis. Heart transplants, liver transplants, lungs are also performed regularly in the world today. With the development of medicine and other vital organs, including pancreas and bladder, can be transplanted. Also, tissues like corneal, heart valves, bone marrow can be donated. The latest is now in the world to transplant the Langerhans Islands cells to treat type one diabetes, but this technique is still developing at the University of Bioengineering in Toronto, Canada. When we talk about transplants and transplants, I want to say that it can be from cadavers, a person who has experienced, unfortunately, brain death, but has preserved all other vital functions, as well as from a living donor. The model of assumed consent with the possibility of active exclusion was best accepted by the public in most countries, and in those countries with that donation rate has been significantly increased. Of course, you're asking permission to donate organs to your family. I believe that transplant medicine is a medical field that requires the participation of the entire society, because citizens are a driving force and a major benefactor. Transplant medicine requires public support and information. Health care professionals throughout the process play a role in the service that connects donors and recipients. Many people in Serbia need organ, cell and tissue transplants to continue their lives. Among them, they didn't have a number of children. Unfortunately, only a few of them are fortunate to have a relative answer and that a transplant can be done. Everyone else is referred to a cadaveric transplant. With us, the number of cadaveric transplants is unsatisfactory, not to say that it is devastating, and our country is at the beginning of the list in Europe by the number of organ donors. What are the reasons for such a weak response to the organ's legacy? They're numerous. It is important to say that it is not so much religious reasons as it is about delusions and prejudices, lack of information, not showing empathy and many other delusions, including stories of possible corruption, insufficient knowledge of brain death and superstitions are the most common reasons for giving up on potential donorism. The proposal for a new law, one and the other, and on organ transplants and cells and tissues, clearly defines the donation procedure, i.e. taking cadaver organs for transplants and it is in line with the world's most modern, professional standards, professional guidelines and ethical principles. The standards of medical science and practice, as well as the quality of human organ safety for transplantation, have been fully applied. It is therefore very important, not only to adopt the proposed laws, but also to promote them. Continuing, strong education of citizens, because it is a very important issue of life. Any future potential donor i.e. The giver must consider the passing of life and the possibility that it may need a transplant for him or for us or for a loved one in the future. It's your principle of solidarity and reciprocity. That's why we need to instill in our consciousness that donation is that. The donation of organs reflects the greatest human nobility that can't be measured by any other act or trait. I'm going to give an example of us in a close environment, and I'm going to point out everything I've said. For the first time in the world, the University Children's Clinic of Tirshov had a uterine transplant, where the donor and organ recipient were genetically identical identical twins. In Europe, this is only 12 transplants of this kind, but our Belgrade story is unique to patients who are 37 and are identical. monozygotic twins. This means that the nurse who has been transplanted will not have to take medication to prevent the rejection of the transplanted organ. The only difference between twins is that one was born with no uterus. The second one gave birth to three children and decided that she would no longer give birth and that her womb wanted to give in to her sister. A transplant like this is of great importance to medical science and gives hope to all women who do not want to give up motherhood and have similar problems that can only overcome organ transplants. I'd also like to read today's VMA statement on stem cell transplants from a related donor. So this year, the VMA will mark 45 years since the first allogeneic transplant of a related donor's bone marrow, which was a pioneering venture in the Balkan area. So far it has been done on VMA over 1,200 transplants, and each year this form of treatment is updated, etc. For the sake of time, I'm going to move on to the next law, which is to amend and supplement the Law on Psychoactive Substances. I want to say that abuse and the consequences of psychoactive controlled substances affect all social layers in all countries of the world, directly affecting human health and life, inciting violent crime, juvenile delinquency, prostitution, begging, property delinquents, as well as various other deviant behaviors. Every year, unfortunately, 200,000 people die from drug use and to successfully fight drugs is the necessary coordination of all competent services at both national and local level. So a multidisciplinary approach to this problem is necessary. It is very important to raise awareness of the harmful effects of drugs and to mobilise the entire society to engage in activities to combat the use of various types of opiates and psychoactive substances. Activities should be particularly directed at young people who are often unaware of the many dangers of drug use. In addition to the direct impact on health, psychological and emotional development of users is threatened. The abuse of synthetic drugs in Serbia is a relatively new phenomenon that is largely linked to new trends in young people's behaviour in leisure. Using psychoactive controlled substances, that is, drugs are not only a health threat, but also a major socio-economic problem around the world, and all of us together must make a contribution to the fight against this evil by humanity in general. In the end, I'd like to say something about cannabis. That's not what I'm saying. That's what science says. That's what the profession says. So there are already registered medicines that are respected by the legal procedure of certain countries put into medical use. For example, “dronabinol” is a synthetic TSH to treat significant weight loss in HIV, AIDS, in such patients as well as for the treatment of secondary haemotherapy effects in cancer patients, when other medicines do not help. Also, there is the use of “nabilone”, a synthetic substance similar to THC for the treatment of nausea and vomiting in patients on chemotherapy who do not respond to conventional antiemetic drugs. The third cannabis-based medicine is a ‘systances’ spray containing natural tetrahydrocanabinols for symptomatic relief of motor disorders, i.e. aspastificate in patients who suffer from this and where other treatments have not produced any desired results. In the end, I would like to say that we from the SNS are going to support these drafts of the voting and voting laws in the day for them and, as the chairman of the Health and Family Committee said, and when we are not MPs, we will be proud of the adopted laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41793	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic. Is he here? The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry my fellow MPs, who looked very strange today and laughed very strangely, which they weren't present, which Prof. Pavlovic is not there to explain to him the difference between industrial hemp and other hemp for which he has performed propaganda and advertising here. So industrial hemp up to 0.3%. When dry years are destroyed in agricultural crops although it is not a narcotic, but as soon as it crosses 0.3% of THC, it is destroyed even though it yields very solid yields and gives higher revenues per hectare when grown and industrial hemp has thousands of purposes in industry and it reaches 10 times the value of what it has in agricultural crops. To leave time for my colleagues, I will say that I will support all the laws, of course, and judges. I want to recommend to the judges that they know that they should protect and punish, that they protect those who are not guilty, and that they punish those who are guilty, not only to punish the crime, but that a new act would not be committed, and that my advice is to make sure that they are not independent, divinely independent, not independent of the law, but independent of crime, and I hope that judges of the economic courts and these other judges will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41795	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41796	I thank the president. Honorable ministers with associates, distinguished judges, colleagues and colleagues, Dr. Bačevac spoke a lot about the law, and I would like to say something about the Nish Clinical Centre, which is listed as one of the best donor transplant centres. The Nis Clinical Centre is currently one of the best donor centres of 14 in the country, as the whole team of doctors who have been working backwards for years are working hard to find potential repetitors, or patients who meet the conditions for liver transplants, and are also advisoryly helping colleagues from other health centres in the region, whose patients are gravitating to this health facility. In Serbia, only three health centres are currently doing liver transplants, which are the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and VMA, and if for the time being in the Niško Clinical Centre not all conditions exist for liver transplants, but when data and figures are considered in the last few years, the Clinical Centre in Nis has fully fulfilled its role in identifying patients with liver disease from the south and southeast of Serbia and, more importantly, their application for transplants. During the previous period, nearly 20 patients were on the list of the Low Clinical Centre, some of whom had already been transplanted, some of whom had been prepared. What is really important, new working conditions, new buildings with state-of-the-art equipment and appliances, but also people make the situation better, and in the new building there are also special rooms designed for patients preparing for equation, i.e. transplantation, and collaboration with transplant coordinators from other health centres is getting better. However, when it comes to kidney transplants, the Nis Clinical Center has been at the top of the country's list for a long time. During last year, eight related transplants and four cadaveric were performed here, and during this few others, in fact, as far as I'm aware, two other related and one cadaveric, which is a really important success, and since 2007, when the transplants started working in Nis over 110 patients have been given a new kidney. How important it is that the law itself, but also the awareness of fellow citizens, we have heard this many times today, constantly raises and influences the public how important and co-operation the institution is telling and the example of 2015, someone mentioned today, when a 60-year-old woman was brought to a clinical center with severe injuries from Knjaževec to whom doctors could not help and expected brain death to occur. Then alarmingly everyone and all the transplant teams from all over the country again thanks to the donor family, and then the willingness of the clinic center doctor Nis to perform the real film action when they were saved even four lives. About 200 doctors, nurses and non-medical staff participated in the joint action. From Nis kvr was sent to Belgrade to do tissue typing and to find the person with the most matches and thus the least chance to reject the transplanted heart. How important the common approach also shows that for the liver the transplant team from Novi Sad to Nis came by helicopter, while the kidneys were transplanted immediately at the clinic center. What should be pointed out is that, of course, it is in progress, and at the end is the renovation of an old building of surgery in Nis, where there was once an old emergency center, and in this area there will be hospitalized many clinics, a daily hospital, or a polyclinic, which will have a significant impact on both the speed and quality of work and comfort of patients. In addition to the new building of the Clinical Centre, plans are being made and helipads are soon beginning to be built, funds are being provided by the Civil Aviation Directorate, and the contract was signed in late December 2017, so that, if I am not mistaken, the Clinical Centre will be the first civilian health care facility to own a helicopter landing site, and many other activities that people from the clinic center's administration are working on, in agreement, of course, with the minister, people from the ministry and, of course, with the help of the Serbian government. What's important is that there's been a move from a hospital outside of Nis, 12 kilometers away, and there's a lot of plans to move and an oncology clinic from the same place, which is of great importance to patients. A warm connection ends between gynecology and the Children's Internal Clinic, so newborns who have to be treated will no longer have to be exposed to atmospheric opportunities and transferred from the clinic to the clinic. Speaking of the youngest, the Nis Clinical Centre should soon form the first children's emergency centre in Serbia to provide all patients from the region under the age of 18. In voting day, the SDS will support a set of laws, as well as a set of laws in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41797	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. He's not here. ) Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic, is he there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41798	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, dear guests from the Department of Biomedicine, Honorable Judges, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have a set of three very important laws in the field of health. First of all, the bill on human cells and tissues, human organ transplants and psychoactive controlled substances. On this occasion, I would like to express my special satisfaction as a longtime health worker and as a national MP that I am able to participate in the adoption of such important laws. The new Law on the application of human cells and tissues, firstly in a precise and clear way, defines which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues, including any conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit. In addition, in order to develop the area of application of human cells and tissues according to the highest standards of medical science and practice in the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to define the register of progenitors of haematopoiesis, which enables the finding of incompatible donors, and the provision of transplant cells. The existing law has not clearly defined the existence of a register as an organisational continent, as well as responsibilities and mandatory work registers, which is the basis for working in accordance with the highest standards in this area. The new law regulates activities in this area, which contributes to the development and improvement of work with national donors, which contributes to the faster achievement of healthcare in this area, as well as the improvement of international co-operation. The new law has laid down a simplified procedure, the authorisation of health institutions to carry out human cell and tissue operations, as well as the establishment of a single information system in the area mentioned, in order to establish and maintain a traceability system. One of the papers of this law is the simplification of the process of granting consent to human tissues, avoiding unnecessary financial costs of keeping a register, i.e. by introducing a ban on giving, the law has provided the possibility for every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia to prohibit in writing or oral form the donation of their tissues, as well as the possibility for family members to do so at the time of death, if the deceased person has not declared himself to life in connection with this, while in view of minor citizens, the necessary informed consent of legal agents or guardians is foreseen. The establishment of inspection supervision under the Biomedicine Administration shall ensure the continuity of expert supervision in the field of biomedicine, which is specific due to the daily introduction of new methods in the process of work, and shall impose the need for supervision by experts with the greatest experience in practice, accompanied by the contemporary achievements of science in this area. The adoption of a new law will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as for organising jobs in the fields of human cells and tissues, which, in all stages, respecting the principles of traceability, will ultimately improve the quality of health care provided in accordance with modern standards of medical science in practice, i.e. with EU regulations in this area. Since all the new solutions proposed by this law refer to a substance that could not be regulated by another legal act, and given the extent of the proposed changes, the adoption of a new law on the application of human cells and tissues is the only option. As regards the second proposal for a law on human organ transplantation, the adoption of a new law will provide for a clear division of health institutions to carry out transplant operations, i.e. organ and donor hospitals as a clear division of businesses and obligations carried out by one, or another, of the above mentioned health institution. The adoption of a transplant programme which is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which will define clear procedures and procedures concerning the organisation of teams and the financing of the entire transplantation process, the simplification of the authorisation of health institutions for the performance of human organ transplantation, the establishment of a single information system in the field of organ transplantation, the traceability system, the simplification of the consent procedure for organ transplanting, avoiding unnecessary financial costs of keeping a register, or by introducing a ban on the donation of organ donors, the law has provided the possibility for every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia to prohibit in writing or oral form the donation of their organs, as well as the possibility of family members to do so if the deceased person for life has not made clear in this respect. With regard to minor citizens, it is necessary to inform the consent of legislators or guardians. The adoption of a promotion programme that will adequately affect citizens' awareness of the donation of their organs, the clear role and tasks of the biomedicine administration, as a competent body in the field of biomedicine, at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, clear inspection supervision of the work of health institutions in organ transplantation. As far as a highly sensitive area is concerned, it is necessary, above all, to have trained inspectors to ensure the sustainability of a high level of quality in this area through their existence and operation. Finally, full compliance with EU directives. Finally, I want to point out once again my special satisfaction, which is that as a member of the majority, ruling majority, in this high House, in the voting day, I support these bill proposals and I vote for them to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41799	The word is Mariana Maraš. The word is Branislav Mihajlović. The word is Milovan Krikapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41800	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable High Council of the judiciary with judges, dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will discuss the proposal for a law on human cells, tissues and a bill on human organs transplantation. These laws that we discussed today, and which I will say a few words about, send a message to the citizens of Serbia that the health of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Minister Loncar and his associates, is on the right track and are taking big steps forward. It's the only true truth and reality that no one can escape from. I'll say a few words about human cells and tissues. The area of human cells and tissues has so far been governed by the 2009 Transplantation of Cells and Tissues Act. However, the application of this law in the previous period found the need to improve and specify the conditions of organisations and jobs in the area of cells and tissues for human application, as well as to monitor the performance of jobs in the mentioned area in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would say that the reasons for the adoption of the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues are contained in the need for the area of human cells and tissues to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that this particular area of medicine is developing intensively and offers great opportunities for treatment, and that health institutions doing these jobs provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. In fact, the applicable law governing this area of cell and tissue transplantation did not recognise the importance of defining and regulating the work in the area of cells and tissues for human use, as well as the conditions under which this activity can be performed, which included the activity of giving, obtaining, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from the living or dead person in humans, which caused poor long-term practice in healthcare institutions to conduct procedures in this area, but without defining the conditions at national level, as they would be carried out. So, with clear definition and precision of the conditions in this area, with regard to the performance of activity, space, equipment and personnel, long-term bad practice would remain behind us. Looking at and analysing this bill, we can say that the main objective of adopting a new law on the application of human cells is to establish a high level of security and security in the area of cells and tissues. In order to establish a high level of safety and safety in the area of cells and tissues, the new law is clear and in an unequivocal way, and in accordance with EU directives, defined the role of health institutions in this area, detailing the basic activity of the bank of cells and tissues, defining it as a health institution or an organisational unit of health care at the therapeutic level of health care from the health care plan of a network of health institutions, which brings the government and which carries out the minimum activity of processing, preservation, storage and distribution of cells and tissues, so that it can carry out the work of obtaining and testing cells and tissues as well as the activity of imports and exports of cells and tissues. Therefore, in order to ensure a high level of quality in this area, it is necessary to specify rules and standards that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and ensure the same level of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The solutions proposed in the draft law on human organ transplants for treatment purposes will, above all, affect citizens, because the new law simplified the procedure for giving and consenting to tissue donations to patients on waiting lists for the transplantation of individual tissues, due to a shorter waiting time, then to patients waiting for stem cell transplantation and haematopiesis, because by increasing the number of donors in the national registry, the giver is faster available on the society in the whole, because the establishment of a clear and transparent system in the area of cells and tissues will increase confidence in this area. To increase the number of donors in the national register, it is important because the donor is faster available. At the Biomedicine Authority, as the competent authority in the field of biomedicine, whose role and tasks are clearly defined by this law, as well as the supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as inspection supervision. As for the Law on the Transplanting of Human Organs, Human Organ Transplants and Tissues for therapeutic purposes, it has been practiced for more than half a century since it started with a corneal transplant and has evolved into irreplaceable medical procedures in order to save and extend human life. The organ transplant or transplant has been accepted worldwide as a successful way of treating patients who for some reason have been irrevocable to the function of living the necessary organ. However, regardless of all the achievements of this special medical procedure, the transplant is still followed by a number of issues, a dilemma indicating that it is not fully defined by legal and ethical norms, and that is why reasons for the adoption of this proposal for a law on human organ transplantation have been created. I must point out that the organ transplant area has so far been governed by the Body Transplant Act since 3 September 2009, but as I said, in the previous period, through the application of this 2009 law, the need to improve and specify the conditions of the organisation and the work in the field of human organs transplantation for the purpose of treatment, as well as the supervision of the performance in the mentioned area and in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. With problems in the system of service of transplant medicine, many more developed countries are also facing today. The new legislative solutions propose to introduce stricter control and control provisions for the distribution of organs to those most medically necessary in order to encourage potential donors. I have to point out one thing, which is that organ donation is a sign of humanity, solidarity and nobility to whom one person shows his desire and intent to donate any part of the body after death to help severe patients. It is very important that we primarily build awareness of the importance of the transplant and the nobility of the donorship, first within our family and then of the living communities. Transplantation benefits patients with severe vital organ disease who are not more likely to live than a few weeks or months. There are many who expect our generosity and nobleness, and each of us can find himself in such a position. Another fact I would particularly point out is that research shows that there is a much greater chance of being organ recipients than donors. Psychoactive substances are substances that, by their activity on the nervous system, cause mood, behavior, or opinion to change precisely because of a number of unwanted and harmful effects. The production and transport of these substances are either out of legal activity, such as opium production, cocaine and the like, or are strictly controlled by the state for medicines such as amphetamines, morphine and others. We have to keep in mind that any substance can be a cure and poison. So experts, based on very precise methods, determine what the cure is, which is a dose that can be given to the patient to whom it can be given. Today, the drug needs to be understood as a polytoxic economy, and addicts as polytoxics, meaning people who take any substance that can consciously change themselves towards themselves and self-awareness towards others in the overall environment. When a psychoactive substance is mentioned, it is often thought of and dependent on them. Each patient has the most difficult problem and the doctor will have individual access based on knowledge and experience to determine whether a patient is being treated with a psychological or biological problem. In other words, if it's an addict, is it a weak person or has genetics done its part? It determines the medical approach itself and how to help that person. The use of psychoactive substances has to be controlled so it doesn't become pathological. And we immediately come to the fact that our medical knowledge in this area unites with practice and possibilities and together leads to the best solution for the community and individual, taking needs and rights of both. Politoxycommia is the essence of the current drug use in the subpopulation of generations of young people. The lower limits of first contact with psychoactive substances are shifted until the child's age, the 12th, and today, for God's sake, up to the 10th year of life as the first contact with this evil. In view of the fact that since the adoption of the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, it has been eight years and that there has been a need for different systemic solutions in relation to the basic law, resulting from the need to comply with EU regulations, the adoption of amendments and additions to this law will provide legal frameworks for the adoption of sublegal regulations that will determine closer to the functioning of new institutions introduced by these amendments and amendments. Decisions proposed by this law will affect all relevant institutions and institutions that are competent for psychoactive controlled substances and a new system for monitoring the situation of psychoactive substances will be re-arranged. There's no division on light and heavy drugs. Many confusions have also been brought into the professional public, such as medical, and professions such as social workers, pedagogues, defecologists, psychologists etc. It is that division of easy and heavy. The expert and scientific debate on this subject is unnecessary. If one substance is psychoactive and called drugs, it's drugs. It can be misused, whether it's heroin, cocaine or marijuana or any of the synthetic drugs. This is exactly the discussion led by Mr. Risticevic with Pavlovic. In the end, I feel free to say that the positive effects will reflect on all subjects dealing with demand reduction and psychoactive substances supply. Positive effects will primarily reflect the improvement of the programme for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, reducing harmful effects and increasing the use of new psychoactive substances. The establishment of a drug monitoring centre will ensure that the situation is seen in the field of supply and the demand for psychoactive substances. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the laws, and so will I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41801	The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41802	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are today considering in this assembly debate three health laws. I'd just like to remind fellow Members of the People's Parliament that we've been convened so far, perhaps I'll make a mistake about one law, about seven laws we've discussed and passed. When I add these three, it's already 10 health care laws that make up a set of health laws. Why do I bring this up and add it up? Because we evaluate and analyze laws here, but as MPs, we also need to properly assess how a ministry works. Without any modesty towards the minister and the ministry, for me it is a significant effect, 10 laws, starting with out-of-body fertilization, DNA register, documentation and these three, in a legislative sense, not to mention those routine, everyday things carried out by the minister and the ministry, I think they have shown exceptional commitment, work and effort, and I think it's time to commend the ministry's work, headed by Minister Loncar. Because if we take a break in the election campaign, to mention that, and split it into 15-16 months of work, ten laws are very dedicated to work and effort. In doing so, the laws are extremely doctrinally medically done and professionally, so this shows one commitment and active work of the Ministry of Health to regulate the areas of health for the benefit of our citizens. Now, in the law analysis, I immediately remembered the comments of an opposition MP. We also said on the board that these health laws are strictly apolitical. They deal with professions, they deal with organisational issues of professions, sciences and they improve this area they refer to, which are cell and tissue transplants, as well as psychoactive substances, and there is no political connotation or anything else at all on the Health Committee. We were unanimous, because this is doctrinal, professionally, resolved by the most modern achievements of medical science and medical doctrine. Out of the whole law, one MP commented that this law puts power in the hands of a minister who is in charge of everything and everything, power in the hands of the minister of cell and tissue transplants. It feels so little that I don't use the term, it acts funny and states, patterns, destruction... Well, who's gonna do it? All these demands, forms, submissions of any approvals or anything, it is logical that it should be signed by the minister and the adoption of sublegal acts. There is now no concentration of power in one professional-doctoral-routine work. Another comment is the possibility of corrupting what is asked by the Ministry to appoint a director of the Biomedicine Administration. Corruptive action, which is what the minister has opened up in part. These are so team-wide jobs where dozens of people, experts, medical doctors, biologists are involved in each transplant process. So, by reading the law and through the very professional methodological organization of this job, there really is no theoretical possibility of some corrupt action. I had to comment that some are more malicious, even marginal things, this is a mild word, this is more malicious and searching, as our people would say, hair in the egg. As far as these laws are concerned, I'd like to comment on the Law on cell and tissue transplants. A lot of my colleagues said that I wouldn't get into any details. In my opinion, this new law resolves and brings some newspapers. One of the newspapers is because it is clearly defined by the Register of Hematoiesis stem cell donors, which enables the finding of these incompatible donors and thus the provision of transplant cells. It is defined by law and register as an organisational continent, as well as by business and obligation registers in accordance with the highest standards, which enables the development and improvement of work with national donors. I would like to mention that the Republic Register of stem cell donors, haematopoiesis, the organisational unit of the Institute of Transfusion, is defined in Article 17. Serbia's blood transfusion institute, and there are clear and precise references to all the jobs it performs. For viewers, it should be said that since 2005 this law has also been established in 2005 at the Institute for Blood Transfusion, in collaboration with the Ministry, and since 2012 it has also become part of the world registry that combines data on donors from over 100 national registers. However, since this law, i.e. in the previous law, has not been recognised, this new law accurately defines and specifies all the jobs that fall within its jurisdiction, so it is one newspaper. The third thing as a newspaper is that in a precise and clear way, it defines which health institutions can apply for business in the area of cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human cells and tissues and conditions they have to meet to get permission. It should be mentioned again for viewers, that currently in our Republic of Serbia, the transplantation of the parent cells of haematopoiesis is carried out by five health institutions. I will read them for viewers because they are state institutions – Institute of Mother and Child Belgrade, Dr Vukan Čupić, VMA, Clinical Centres of Serbia, Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, Institute of Oncology of Vojvodina, and while tissue transplantation is performed by five health institutions and that – two in the state property of the clinic for ophthalmology, Institute of orthopedic surgical diseases Banjica. I don't want to read these three private hospitals. I don't think I should advertise them. So, the fourth thing is a new regulation for the adoption of a programme for transplanting organs involving human cells that will be unique throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which will specify clear procedures and procedures for the organisation. The fifth thing, significant, is to simplify the process of granting consent to human tissues by avoiding unnecessary financial and other costs of keeping the register. The seventh newspaper, in my opinion, is a clear legally precise role and tasks of the Biomedicine Administration, which competently body in the field of biomedicine at the level of the entire state and members of 45 to 50, is prescribed the existence of an organisational unit in the field of human cells and tissues in the Biomedicine Administration, to be precise, means, as an organisational unit of the Biomedicine Administration and essentially, it performs the tasks of the state administration and supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as sublegal acts. The Biomedicine Administration also plays a role in the supervision and inspection of the work of health institutions involved in the work of transplants, so the basic thing that counterpart Laketic said is precisely about this, because it gives great importance to the role of this Biomedicine Administration, that it is certainly necessary to strengthen human resources, because the law also foresees that they are experienced experts who are at least two years in the area of supervision, so that there is a safe time for the proper education that we have in these already mentioned transplant institutions, because it didn't start yesterday, but we also have a tradition of organ transplants from half a century and more. The eighth thing is to mention, which is to align the terms and where they were reactions because we had to harmonize certain terms, our domestic law with EU law, which is logical and legal and medical terms, these are sensitive topics, it is also necessary that we say harmonisation of terms because we are in criminal negotiations for the EU. Finally, what is very important is that I commented on the Committee that this law actually creates conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness. This is certainly what the Ministry needs with the appropriate programmes, which is also foreseen by the law, and advertising is forbidden to provide for appropriate information programmes for our people. A question has been asked on the Committee, but because of other MPs, I have forgotten which MPs, what attitude the Catholic and Orthodox church has towards giving tissue and organs to transplants. The director’s office was responsible for telling us that both the Catholic and the Orthodox Church absolutely have both the law and the giving is in agreement. So that part is clear because of the sensitivity of both religions, but now it is necessary to educate our ordinary people, citizens, to be donors, although they are and to realize that this means someone's life, an extension of life, and that these laws are really deep human and all the laws that are passed in medicine. In medicine, all laws are deeply human, devoted to a sick man, to an extension of life and healing. Of course, in the voting day, I will support as well as my colleagues from the SNS all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41803	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41804	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we've talked a few times here, I've been worried, because however the bill comes, I have to commend him, or at least say, I can't be against, I've already been worried about my opposition reputation. Of course, I'm kidding, I'm glad when the government comes or any minister, the ministry with good bill proposals, totally irrelevant whether it concerns the lives of citizens, completely irrelevant who stands or sits on which side of this hall. This time, I see my colleagues, less of a profession and doctors praise and greet your laws, I have, of course, objections and fundamental objections that I will not be able to discuss, and of course it doesn't matter, the ruling majority is sufficiently numerous to vote on, but I wanted to discuss with you once again some dilemmas about this key thing. I've got a little time, and otherwise there's not much left for this debate, so now there's some finesse, it's through the amendments, and when there's a debate about details, or in particular, then there's something to talk about. But in general, it is clear to you about what will be and what my key dilemma is, the observation and the reason why I can't support, at least these two laws, these are the views, or this member, of these members concerned by the consent. So, that default consent to organ donation, that's something simple to me, regardless of whether we're the government or the opposition bothers. Also, I understand the human and moral reasons that they have motivated, so I'm not going from conspiracy theory, it's not a necessary conspiracy, some organ robbery, or I don't know the intention of turning Serbia into some rich-world organ farm, although there are those, or there's going to be such interpretations. I allow and believe, I say in the good intentions of the promoter. I'd say, for Serbian society at this point, it's too radical, early to go with such a measure. I'm going to be very specific, this law is in force, which is valid for speaking, which is counting on explicit consent to be given to the organ. That's what we watch from time to time, these campaigns in favor of it. Obviously, it wasn't a very successful action, and I think as a ministry too satisfied with the effects of these actions, you wouldn't go to that extent of default consent. Citizens have to know, if they don't understand it enough, sometimes we get too complicated here, simply, every once you're born, or during life, you have to explicitly say you won't be a donor, or you don't agree that your organs are being used after you die. If you do not explicitly declare it, it is understood, that is the default consent, it is understood that they will be used unless the members of your family again, directly and explicitly, declares themselves against it. Sounds a little radical to me, sounds a little orvellic. No matter what you can name examples from the world, it is a trend, and I'm sure there is, it seems a little bit to me like some of the images from these anti-Utopias or some of the films that we watch occasionally, which, of course, are dramaticly, apocalyptically representing these things. Let's be a little less ambitious, we don't always have to be more Catholic than Pope or greater Europeans than Europe. It is not everywhere in Europe, nor in the EU yet this law or such laws have been brought to life. I think it would be much more appropriate to step up the campaign in favour of voluntary donation. So, we've seen, this government has enough capacity to run a successful campaign, to convince citizens of many things, first of all, that it's successful and efficient and to give them a voice, so let's get some of that energy from the funds invested in campaigns to support the authorities, let's put it into, let's say, this. I don't mind, therefore, I don't object for some religious or any parallel reasons, but I just don't think that we as a society at this point have had enough to stand up for such a measure that seems too dramaticly, too radically, in a country where it rises, let's be realistic, drama and rebel users, citizens, because of those fine letters in contracts that we sign for mobile telephony or something not very important, so let's say -- and in small letters, no one reads it. There are no small letters here, all automatically becoming donors, or if we do not explicitly oppose or plead against it, we place our organs at the disposal of our organs. I think the government, the opposition, the professional associations, MPs could contribute. They could contribute in the sense that this measure is being promoted, but not in this sense, not in this imperative way, which seems to me to create more problems, in the end, the authorities. I'm not looking at it so it'll benefit the government or the opposition. I don't think it's going to echo well, no matter how much I agree we need more donors. We need more donors, we need more organs to save more lives, but let's do something to promote it, not this way. I'm running out of these six minutes. I'm not gonna do other things. Now I would recommend that instead of changes and additions, consider perhaps a whole new law, this psychoactive substance, given the dramaticity of the drug problem. I think a new law would be needed, not just alterations and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41805	Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Branislav Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41806	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Mr Loncar, the Honorable Professor Vekic, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, the Honorable Members of the People's Parliament, as we know, are before us the laws of miles of health and I will only talk about the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Psycho-controlled Substances. Since I'm a neuropsychiatrist, and I'm more of a psychiatrist by vocality, I'm going to allow myself the opportunity to talk about this law, while other laws might just mention and leave the rest of the time for other colleagues to say something about this set of laws. In ancient civilizations, people used natural drugs from their environment most often in magical and religious rituals. In the second half of the 20th century, there was an expansion of drug abuse, as well as a dramatic increase in the number of drug addicts, whether natural or synthetic. More and more synthetic drugs are being used, and I have to underline that, whose fact is stronger, and thus more dangerous than the facts of natural drugs, but to talk about some law, first we have to define what psychoactive substances are, which are substances that, by their activity on the nervous system, cause changes in mood, behaviour or opinion. So they're changing one or more psychic functions, and after repeated use, it can lead to psychic or physical addiction. Depending on psychoactive substances, there are at least three of these symptoms – a desire to take substance, physical abstinence syndrome when the use is discontinued and, thirdly, tolerance to the fact of previously effective doses of substance. It is very important to mention what are the risk factors. Risk factors refer to personality, environment and drug fact alone. I'm going to stay here, and I'm going to potentiate sociological theory, because sociological theories believe that the impact of the environment on the formation of personality and the occurrence of addiction disease is not negligible. It is important to remember how tolerated some societies and cultures are with alcohol and even with the use of drugs. All of this contributes in many ways that someone who already has a possible genetic predisposition to facilitate the development of addiction to some psychoactive substance develops a disease of addiction. As for the division of psychoactive substances, the production and use of psychoactive substances can be socially permitted, but also illegal and legally sanctioned. On this basis, psychoactive substances are divided into medications, which include analgesics, sedatives, and the like, alcohol, coffee and tobacco, whose use is widespread in society and allowed, so-called. Social drugs and, thirdly, drugs whose use is illegal and socially unacceptable. The second division I was talking about, replicating my colleagues, just to say again, I wouldn't repeat myself, is to the depressants, psychostimulants and hallucinogenics, where LSD belongs, but I'm going to stay on psychostimulants, since I haven't answered him until the end, where cocaine, amphetamine, ecstasy, crack, cannabis, or Indian rope, means hash and marijuana. Smoking marijuana is often accompanied by experiences similar to schizophrenia, which means you have transient hallucinations, paranoid ideas, a sense of slow flow of time, depersonalisation and reality. Based on the results of a national survey on the lifestyles of the Serbian population from 2014, the use of psychoactive substances, gambling, the use of illegal drugs was recorded in 8% of the total population aged 18 to 64 and 10.8% in men and 5.2% in women, respectively. The most commonly used illegal drug among adults is cannabis, whose use was recorded at least once during life in 7.7% of subjects aged 18 to 64. Therefore, the objective of amending and supplementing this law is primarily to improve the early warning system of new psychoactive substances, defined in Article 1 in order to include new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs and to put off the Council's decision to introduce the concept of a new psychoactive substance and to provide a legal framework for the derogation and take measures in relation to the emergence of new psychoactive substances. One of the papers of this law is that the establishment of a committee of representatives of all competent institutions and institutions dealing with psychoactive substances, as well as the establishment of a Monitoring Centre for Drugs, Drug Dependence in the Drug and Medical Devices Sector is prescribed. The Monitoring Centre for Drugs will, based on an analysis of the data collected in the right way, see the needs of improving the drug demand reduction programme, means prevention, treatment and rehabilitation and drug supply. Accordingly, the Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Dependence will propose measures and activities to improve preventive programmes. I also underline the amendment of Article 20 which is now being replaced by Article 5 in order to define more precisely the work of the reference laboratory and the obligation to participate in the early introduction system of new psychoactive substances. In the afternoon discussion, a colleague spoke about that cannabis oil can treat very severe diseases such as spinal muscle atrophy, such as multiplesclerosis. I have to say the following, spinal muscle atrophy or Debni Hoffman's disease, as well as her type three Kugelberg Wildnder's disease are muscle weakness and muscle atrophy due to lack of motor cells in front of the spinal cord. Multiplesclerosis is something else. It's a demiliosis disease, but you basically have a phenotypic-like structure. So when you look at the patient, you have muscle atrophy, sense and difficulty moving. Cannabis oil does not treat this disease. But they don't want to say one very important fact, and I'm going to say it, and I'm going to commend the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund and their president, Marijan Risticevic, that a medicine called spinraza has now been obtained, which treats spinal muscle atrophy. This is the most expensive medicine in the world right now. The treatment per patient costs 540,000 euros per year, have you heard, 540,000 euros, and will receive 17 children on the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. When these children receive this medicine in time, the disease is treatable. Just so you know. In the end, there's something else I can say about Donorship. Col. Milisavljevic is a sacred example of the MPs across the street, who donated his organs, but I must say the following. In the last session, members of the SNS, about 150 of them, including myself, we all donated organs and we don't wave books at the moment, but to know that in the last session, we are members of the SNS, once again undermining, we are 150 donated by the organs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41807	Thank you. Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41808	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, within my time available, I will speak of these first two laws in the field of health. Health care as the most sensitive area of social activity has been on the sidelines for decades, i.e. on the sidelines of the country's relationship with this profession, so the adoption of these laws is a good example of changing this practice in a positive direction, although with a lot of delays, because a lot of valuable time has been lost. Human life and health are an undeniable right of every individual, but the state does not recognize the fact that healthy society and only a healthy society is a provision for general progress. So health is the greatest value and privilege of all of us. But what is the state of our health? Small wages, inability to work, poor equipment, inability to solve a housing problem, so this profession is at the top of the list of those who want to leave the country, and our healthcare professionals are happily accepted abroad as good professionals and workers, so the state should not give them up easily. But health care as a profession has some subjective problems and difficulties, which unfortunately patients themselves feel. It's about a lot of vanity, security, animosity, career abduction and things like that. I think there's a lot of you in this room who's experienced it, or knows someone who's felt one of these medical defects on their skin, that he's had the inconvenience of choosing a doctor, getting a guide, getting a reference through a relationship, to disdaining his colleagues from medical institutions to rerouting patients from state to private, most often his clinic. It often happens that a patient who asks for advice for his illness is first asked who you were, who treated you, that the doctor tells him to go away from who you came from, that the patient gets from two doctors very different diagnosiss and recommendations for treatment, so the patient is simply confused with such a relationship. We know exactly how vulnerable and hypersensitive a man is. Most patients are chasing doctors at voice or health institutions of reputation, instead of using time for treatment. This kind of approach leads to a crowd where there shouldn't be any. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing these medical laws are on the agenda. In health care and education, we shouldn't go after Europe, we should go in parallel with it. The human organ transplant law and the Human Cells and Tissues Act are compatible. Instead of coughing, we have to go to events, because people's lives are at stake. It's a very invisible human situation when a man is life-threatening, and that depends on someone's goodwill or chance, a favourable coincidence. With regard to the number of members, these two laws are almost identical, by 58 or 59 members. The structure is also identical, even an organisation related to the same administration within the health ministry. The first laws on this subject have been passed for half a decade. I admit that this is not just a Serbian topic, it is more European, but it is necessary, necessary and justified. The government is usually late for this legal innovation, with grooming. On this plan, experience isn't too great. We are successful in organ transplants, but also in stem cell transplants. We have to increase the number of organ transplant centres, we've seen five of them, as well as the number of stem cell transplant health facilities. Both of these laws regulate issues related to human organ transplants, i.e. human cell and tissue transplants. Legislative normation requirements have been met, normation, acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from a living or dead person has been specified. It is clearly defined as an institution that will be a human tissue bank. These are areas where it really is necessary to have a republican register and a republican organ transplant program. Both of these laws, i.e. The legal proposals still need to meet the requirement to prescribe a simplified procedure. This is such an important topic that nothing should be left to the case or improvisation. However, it is easier to arrange an organisational system for the donation, testing and transplantation of human organs and the taking of human cells and tissues from a living donor and from a dead person. Things are much more complicated when they focus on the recipient and the human tissue donor, the organs. Guarantees from health institutions, family consent and others are required. This is much harder to ensure than prescribing mutual cooperation between health institutions involved in the process of transplanting and taking and applying human cells and tissues. What's the flaw in this whole story, and it's a big flaw, and not just a flaw, but a sight, a fear? This area for citizens, as well as for certain healthcare professionals, is a matter of need, for other necessity, for the third necessary medical standard, and there are those who see all of this as a novelty, or new European fashion. It can only be transplanted when you have what, organ or tissue. It's not just the means to promote. Consciousness is very and difficult to change, flavors, standards, fashion, styles change, but reshaping consciousness and human habits are changing very slowly. I think there'd be work for the Ministry of Education as well. Dear colleagues, the key word for these laws is donor, donor. In our consciousness and health culture, the importance of this phenomenon is not enough. The solidarity of human and altruism must be built into action through the feeling of other people's suffering, but the way of life also conditions the way of opinion, and hence the behavior. I would quote Alfred Nobel, someone has paraphrased him here, that no one can measure the weight of someone else's burden, which basically means that in our economically difficult situation, we are losing our sense of belonging, of community, that each of our torments is the greatest. You need to develop awareness that you're not alone on earth, that you're sharing it with someone, that you're sharing yourself, that you're giving yourself or that you're giving yourself to someone else. The Serbian Radical Party believes that education and cultivation should begin very early, even in the family, at school, in health classes. Not only can relatives be donors, although it will be them by nature things. The basis must be significantly expanded and permanently focused. The balance of our health care is waiting lists. Who has the right to live, the one in seventh place, or the one in 232? What are their expectations? It's not about football games or plane tickets, it's about rows for heart valves, kidneys, heart, liver, bone marrow, and the like. Everyone, absolutely everyone has the right to be treated. In this brutal struggle for life, people are forced to do many things that they would otherwise not be in such a health situation. Unfortunately, it is not unusual for such ads to appear where human organs are sold. In a sea of sensitive things, there is a government and ministry obligation to determine relevant institutions that deserve and can implement transplant programmes with their high standards. The criteria must be expertise and equipment, not volunteerism, familiarity or vanity. We've seen liver transplants performed in five clinical centers, livers in three, and heart transplants only in KCS. Thank you, so much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41809	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not there. The word has a colleague Jelena Žarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41810	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored Representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are present today before us the draft laws by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for which the Ministry of Health is relevant and which I will address in the debate in particular. Today, I will set aside some time for the VSS proposals and that is why the quality of the personnel proposed to perform the judicial function is important. Proposing professional and experienced staff for judges provides an efficient judicial system, the safety of citizens and a good business environment. They must be prepared to settle disputes in a quick and quality way and must be prepared to deal with crime and corruption. If we return even to 2003, we will remember that the executive, legislative and judicial authorities were in conflict with each other because the politicians at the time wanted to put the judicial system under their control. We'll remember a time when function is v.d. Serbia's president has also been abused when the state of emergency was a weapon to pressure the Supreme Court judges to resign, to replace judicial leaders who opposed illegal judicial reform. I want to make a parallel and point to mistakes and abuses, political influences, blackmail and manipulation, as then a basic means of selecting judges. I would also point out that during the previous democratic regime, the choice of judges and the judiciary was so bad that the Venice Commission assessed judicial reform as the collapse of Serbia's justice system. During that period, judges were selected at closed sessions, fired at closed sessions without justification. At the meetings of the ruling parties then, lists of new judges and progressers were made. Serbia is no longer in a position to allow itself the luxury, to bear costs because of the irresponsible and unprofessional treatment of judges. It came to an end during which judges decided under pressure from political influences, a period during which unprofessional and ordered judgments were ruled, and the consequences were borne neither by the citizens nor by the debtor. During the previous government, I'll remind you, we also had a lawyer from Nis who was illegally elected member of the VSS. This also showed us what their suggestions were like. The VSS is now operating in accordance with the law and within the limits of its powers. Today we have a more effective judiciary, judges who know what the word responsibility means. Justice is available to citizens and the principle of equal treatment in court is respected. Today, it is working to strengthen the rule of law and legal certainty, restoring citizens' trust in a judicial system that enjoys the reputation it deserves. Therefore, I think the VSS proposals are certainly of quality. Also, I believe that the proposals from the Ministry of Health that my colleagues spoke of today are also good quality in the voting day, as well as other colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41811	Thank you, colleague. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41812	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by unifying the points that are now on the agenda and which are in no way related, which have nothing in common, the ruling majority is denying us opposition MPs the argument that we are discussing important and very sensitive topics that are on the agenda today. This primarily refers to these proposals of the health law, namely the proposal for a law on human organs transplants, which in particular we will not be able to say a single word, although it is an issue that must be spoken of openly. This bill of law has rightly caused the avalanche of negative comments and the avalanche of negative reactions. The current Law on Human Organ Transplantation was based on the so-called In that case, he could withdraw his consent. So, every citizen made a decision on his own that he had the right to donate his organs or not. However, this new proposal for a law on human organs transplants that you have prepared for us is completely opposite and organ donors will all be without our decision. Now take instead of so-called. the so-called "conclusive consent" is introduced by the so-called "so-called "conclusive consent". The assumed consent of which every citizen becomes a potential organ donor, unless explicitly opposed during life. So someone assumes that we want to give, or donate our organs, at the last moments of life, when we are unable to say whether that assumption is so or not. So, in that case, the organs will be taken as needed, instead of, as so far as it's been, under the Transplant Law, anyone who wants to be a donor, to get their consent. Under this new law, we're all donors until we cancel our consent. You find the justification for introducing your assumed consent in a small number of transplant bodies and say this way that this new law will increase the number of transplant bodies, because it is also the case in other countries that operate according to this model. However, in countries that have a model of assumed consent, the number of transplant bodies has not increased, e.g. Spain, then Sweden, which continues to have a very low rate of donated bodies, and in some countries the assumed agreement has produced completely negative effects, i.e. it has caused a completely opposite effect. So, a reduction in the number of transplant organs. Another negative effect of introducing an assumed consent that can cause major damage is the patient-doctor relationship, or trust between the doctor and the patient. Serbia has a huge mistrust in the entire health system and in Minister Loncar, which is linked to numerous affairs, from setting up a tender for the purchase of KBC Nis equipment to its connection with the mafia. Do you think with this reputation of the health minister, more popularly called doctor death, you can convince the citizens of Serbia that Serbia will not become a market for human organs? Then, another controversial provision under this bill is the taking of human organs from a deceased minor, who for life was without parental ageing. In that case, it is prescribed that a decision be taken by the Ethics Committee of the Institutions. Any minor who was without parental age must have his legal representative, because it is so under Family Law, which should be included in this case that, together with the Ethics Committee, he makes a decision on organ donation and thus would prevent any abuse. The legislator should also be involved when it comes to persons who are partially, or completely deprived of their business capacity. Then, when it comes to the exchange of human organs, you say that co-operation with European organ exchange organisations is implemented in accordance with the provisions of international contracts confirmed by the Republic of Serbia, but you have rejected the principle of reciprocity within the framework of organ exchange. Then, when it comes to co-operation with European organisations, I would remind Minister Loncar of last January's statement that Serbia was admitted to the Eurotransplant unanimously, and that it is a great success for Serbia and Serbia's health care, as the health system will be part of the EU system. Eurotlansplant is an organisation that makes up eight countries and has absolutely nothing to do with the EU. Then, what's important, and the minister hasn't informed us, and these are the conditions of organ exchange with Eurotlansplant, because we don't meet, here, Minister, if you want the problem better told you, Eurotransplant, then, is the exchange of organs from which all of these conditions have to be met and until after a year and a half. In the end, if such a law is passed and every citizen becomes an organ donor at birth, isn't that how we're all moving targets?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41813	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. He's not there. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41814	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think anyone like the current congregation majority has ever gone hand in hand to lower the National Assembly this much. We're working with a few transmission breaks today, which is very bad. We're talking about serious suggestions, mixed up in one point ten or eleven completely different points of the agenda. People's MPs are mostly not in the O.R., and this is really something that should be corrected if we do not continue to make Serbian citizens more reluctant to both the National Assembly and politicians and the elections, and I suppose that's not for anyone's own good, and that's what you're doing successfully. Today we're talking about, I said, very serious laws and most of all it was about transplants and there's a lot of examples of why this bill isn't good and it's really not. You know, Minister, when a law is passed, when proposed you must know little about the mentality of your own people. You know, a few days ago, a councilman from Uzic died, SO Užica. No one knows what he died of, whether of the hornets or of what. The family wouldn't even let the autopsy take place, let alone to allow, not his now, not to mention that family, to take the organs this way as you predicted. This is not good, and I hope this is not going to live in this way, because it's just impossible. How does a kidney transplant work now? You have a man who, right now, I'm talking about a specific case, but I'm not going to say his name for a few years on dialysis. Every time at the top, the first, the second, the second, the second, but when the kidney appears, he is the second, and now the kidney appears and they say – now it's your turn, but the console says – it's so weakened your system that you can't handle such an operation. In such examples, we cannot imagine that this law should be adopted in this form. I have here other suggestions, first of all, the choice of judges, the appointment of judges who are elected for the first time, and these proposals by the VSS. There really isn't enough time here, but what you've presented to us here is something that we don't really know what it is, names, last names, biographies that aren't, it's not just Marko Markovic was born because he was born then and then, here and there. First of all, there's no work résumé for every candidate. For some candidates, you wrote about how many years they studied, about some of their average, which average was at the end of the study. Somehow it seems to me that you selectively chose where you fit, where someone less studied there you showed how many years he studied. If someone had a slightly higher average, that's how you showed it. This can't really be interpreted any other way. It's interesting for all these candidates for economic courts how it happened that only they passed that exam for economic courts. Were there any more candidates? I've been watching the site - there isn't. The call for lodging only tells those who have been called by name and last name. Is it possible that it's a closed circle, that some other people can't appear there, just those of you from this academy, who started working in courts, and then you say, someone volunteered in court for a few months, and then he's always busy, and I know a lot of young lawyers who volunteered in court for two years, seriously helped the judges and, of course, didn't stay in work later. All of this indicates that you're actually making, or that you're proposing party people in courts, and that's what this from their biography is absolutely saying. Unfortunately, individually I can't, and I don't even have time and it doesn't matter individually, first of all, it's an important phenomenon. What didn't you do? You didn't do anything about judicial reform. You swear, you promise, they have done the same before you, you also now have no "r" from the reform. Do you know, gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, let's say that we have the Srlig municipality, one of the municipalities, Milija always says it's the most beautiful municipality in Serbia and I can agree, beautifully, I don't choose the most beautiful one, but in that municipality you have no court, no judicial unit, no notary. It's a community where today all the records are performed in the municipality? Is that in accordance with the law? It's not. It's your fault for making such a network of courts. Instead of developing these smaller municipalities, you will retain both their courts and their mails and schools, etc. You shut it all down one by one, and you're talking about some even development. What is also related to reform, and what is interesting that none of you have ever mentioned, is the retroactive application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Criminal Code, Pardon, because at that time it was the Law and not the Law, do you know that in Serbian courts there are measures of prison sentences of 40 years for crimes committed, possibly if they were before 2000. It's in some darkness like today, without television transmission, Dosmanlia's power at the time of Sabela's action, something pushed. No one living can understand what, I've watched these changes in the law and one and the other on that, then federal and republican level, no one can untangle it, but the fact is that we have a situation that violates the most cruel constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that violates the principle... But no one's responding. This will be one of the basics, on which we will certainly succeed, first of all, our president and team of lawyers, we will be able to act to restore the case to Milorad Ulemek Legion and Zvezdan Jovanovic, because, among other things, they have been sentenced to 40 years for acts when there has been the highest sentence of 15 years and 20 replacements for the death penalty. You don't mind. You're listening to some Venice committee that won't tell you anything good. Remember what they were doing, what the Venice Commission was doing at the time when Snezana Malovic was a minister, we foretold to her this fate that happened to her in the meantime when it came to professional engagement, and that's what will happen to Nelli Kuburovic, because you're not doing it again, as I just said to Minister Loncaru, you're not doing anything compared to the real situation in the state of Serbia. Let you EU, the European Commission, not be the EU until 2025, when something like this shows us that we are going to get close to that door of Europe. What you're doing through these changes to the law, and then you say we're not doing it for the EU, we're doing it for us. That's just not true. You bring unconstitutional laws. You're proposing the parliamentary majority of the adoptions and this transplant law is unconstitutional. The gravest violation of human rights and we will see whether the Constitutional Court with new judges, and in the Constitutional Court, there are now judges we believe will really abide by the Constitution and the law, we will see if they will assess the unconstitutional provisions of this law, because as soon as the law is declared in "the Official Messenger", we will ask that its constitutionality be established. You can't make a man, or say you're going to take the organs of a man who didn't explicitly forbid it. How many people do you think you know, and now that we're having this debate today without television coverage, how many people know and how much will they even know that this law has been passed? What happens, say, if someone goes there in that biomedicine administration or whatever it's called, says, "I insist and don't let my organs be taken away, if I'm in that situation and I'm done and I decide not to tell anyone anymore." Whom shall we trust that you will respect his will? Of course, I've already written that in public, and now I repeat once again, respected citizens, when this law is passed, be careful how you cross the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41815	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41816	On the laws relating to the network of courts, the CAP has indeed not been invited to comment today, except on the motion for a decision to elect judges who are first elected to the judge's office. We heard from the previous MP that it was reportedly necessary to pass or pass exams for economic courts was selective, I can say responsibly that anyone who was registered and whose candidacy by the commission was declared valid, orderly and timely, was invited to pass the exam. Whoever showed up for the exam, he just took that exam and I have to say that all the candidates proposed, and believe that there were a lot of them on the exam. For example, 110 candidates have applied for the Business Court in Belgrade, for the Business Court in Valjevo 11, for the Business Court in Zrenjanin 18, and not to burden you with that data, you have them practically in your materials, all proposed candidates have passed two tests, one is a written exam, one is a written task, all candidates have received both on one and the other exams written and an evaluation task five, which is the highest score. And 85% of them got 50 points on the written exam, and that's the maximum number of points. I, as a judge who has a 28-year internship in the judiciary alone, if I won 50 points on that test, believe me, would be the smartest judge of the Serbian judiciary. On the other hand, their careers, which are also there, indeed, point to the conclusion that longtime co-workers with very responsible tasks, making decisions and helping judges, and they have received from their judges in their collective as well as in a directly higher court, are the largest number of votes, and we believe that they are indeed the right choice and future of the Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41817	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41818	I wasn't expecting an answer to this question, but I'm very interested in Mr. Jovicic, how many other candidates who had grades of five, and you chose these very ones as the future of the Serbian judiciary, large words? I would much prefer that you were interested in this topic and that as a judge with a years-long or decades-old experience, as you said, do you respect the principle of "zero foam blue litter" and "zero criminal son of a leg" in your work? Is it not suspicious to you, and do you think it is okay for retro to apply some law actively and to harm the party, especially to apply it without it being written anywhere? It remained that way because those judges from the time of Nate Mesarevic, who at the time received the verdict, I guess you haven't forgotten that, there were many judges left in that time and they are doing it neatly the same way she did, and no one in that judicial branch is responding. It's just amazing. Lawyers in appeals make it a reason to overturn judgments, but unfortunately it does not reach the public. And I'd really like to, Mr. Jovic, if you'd heard from us, let's see what you think about it? Do you really share the opinion of these colleagues of yours who can sentence someone to 40 years in prison for some alleged crime for which a 15-year sentence was prescribed at a time when the crime was committed, if it was committed? You know, at that time, you targeted the Legion and the Star, and everything that was happening to them, you loaded it on their shoulders, so that today those who are not here in the O.R. would ask what was the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic? He'll find out when the Legion and the Star are restored.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41819	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Bojan Bagby has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41820	Thank you, Your Honor. The esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the adoption of a new law on human organ transplantation will systematically regulate the area, i.e. to establish and provide conditions for the achievement of human organ quality and safety standards for transplantation, as well as the working conditions and methods of organisation of the health system, in order to ensure the optimal suitability of the human organ to transplant and ensure a high level of protection of human health, as well as to respect the priority interests for the preservation of life and health and protection of fundamental human rights and the dignity of human organ donors and organ recipients. The adoption of a new law on human organ transplants will primarily provide for a clear division of health institutions to carry out the tasks of transplanting or exploiting organs and donor hospitals, as well as a clear division of jobs and obligations carried out by one or more of the above mentioned health institutions. the adoption of a transplant programme which will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which will define clear procedures and procedures concerning the organisation of teams and the financing of the overall transplantation process, the simplification of the authorisation of health institutions to carry out the work of human organ transplantation, the establishment of a single information system in the field of organ transplantation. Simplification of the process of granting consent to organ transplants, avoiding unnecessary financial costs, keeping registers or introducing a ban on the donation of organ donor bodies, the law also provided for the possibility for every adult citizen of Serbia to prohibit, in writing or oral form, the donation of their bodies, as well as the possibility of family members to do so, if the deceased person has not declared in connection with this, the adoption of a promotion programme that will adequately affect the change of citizens' awareness regarding organ donation and clear inspection of the work of health institutions in the field of organ transplantation. As with the previous bill of law, the need for the adoption of a new law on the application of human cells and tissues is contained in the need for the application of human cells and tissues in humans to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that the area of medicine that develops intensively and offers great treatment opportunities, as well as for healthcare institutions doing these tasks, provides better conditions for its implementation, in line with modern achievements in this area. The proposed law will specify the conditions under which donations, acquisitions, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and use of human cells and tissues from live or dead persons will be carried out. The important news of this law is that it clearly defines what health institutions can apply for jobs in the fields of human cells and tissues and those that may be banks of the same kind. Also, this law defines a register of stem cell donors, which enables the finding of incompatible donors and the provision of transplant cells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41821	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. The word is Nada Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41822	I am Professor Dr. Nada Kostic, a relatively new MP. I welcome the presidency, the president and our minister, who is working hard, as a young man, full of energy, to sort out all that he has inherited unsettledly. I would first praise these bill proposals, and I think it was really time to settle this matter legally, so that there would be no situation like it was, I remember at my time, when I was the director of KBS "Dr Dragisa Misovic", there was an affair, I was called by reporters from Zagreb, that some doctors were in this chain of some living organ donors, organ trafficking, false ultrasound findings and so forth, and not to say until the culmination of the yellow house, which we know as crime against crime, where the same investigation was done, but somehow it was always covered up. What I think, the question of ethics and the question of human rights, is very much about this problem, and I think it's essentially a very sensitive thing. We started developing transplants as such, we had a kidney transplant, as our colleague used to say at the beginning, when they started talking, and later the liver and finally the lungs and hearts. Now, the heart and lungs are still developing, they're expensive methods and there needs very good training, exceptional personnel, to do it well, and that's extremely expensive. So far, it's been working abroad, and as we can see, prices are about the same as when it's done abroad and with us. But certainly our medicine needs to progress, as many of our young people as possible to perfect themselves and to keep us at that level. What I would say is important, which is also related to stem cells, it's modern medicine and it's very important and significant in the treatment of many diseases and tissues, I would say something that is ethical and can open the door to abuses. That's what I'm afraid of. When it comes to the 23rd member of the proposal for this law, organ transplants, it is precisely the question of the conditions of the donor body of the deceased person. I think it's far better that a person for life, as we've had so far, wills his organs in writing and gets a donor card. That way there's no confusion. In this way, after death, some sudden, is it so, and he doesn't want to give his organs, someone else to decide, to open up the possibility of corruption and bribes and crime, and again and again and again. I'm really afraid that we don't somehow turn it around, that it's not safe, and I gave up one amendment that I won't talk about later, take away your time, an amendment that refers to just replacing that relationship, means not that you actually give that permission after death, but that it's given to a man while he's alive and until he decides. You know how, you have religious and other reasons why individuals really don't want to. We are in practice aware that the vast majority of people, families, those who have to go to postmortem to discover the real cause of their death, which is very important, refuse it. So, I think our people, as far as I know, still have experience for many years, I think they'll find it hard to accept it, and I'm afraid our people won't be informed of the possibility that the Biomedicine Administration will deliver, say, its disagreement with organ donation. So, there's one of my kind of fears, and that's why I think for life, this was easier to make her mind over her organs. You see, that explains the fact that we heard, of course we're in harmony with Europe now, for Croatia, that 30,000 people, someone said 30,000 people just didn't give it, said they wouldn't give their organs. Now, is it realistic that 30,000 people or a lot of people didn't know at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41823	Thank you, you've wasted your time. (Hope Kostic: There, that's just my remark.) As far as psychoactive drugs are concerned, that's where I fully agree. Of course, I prefer to think that these other services, or other resors, should... That's right. The word has been sent by the MP Borka Grubor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41824	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, proposed health laws that are now on the agenda regulate very important areas that concern a large number of our citizens, from the youngest to the oldest. The Law on human organ transplantation regulates and provides a system in the field of health that prescribes the way, procedure and conditions of organ, tissue and cell collection and transplantation as parts of the human body, i.e. the way, procedure and conditions for the treatment of infertility of biomedically assisted fertilisation. The reasons for the adoption of the laws are contained in the need to establish and provide conditions for the achievement of the standards of quality and safety of human transplant bodies, as well as working conditions and methods of organisation of the health system in order to ensure the optimal availability of human organs for the transplantation and security of a high level of protection of human health, as well as to respect the priority interests for the preservation of life and health and the protection of fundamental human rights and dignity of human organs and organ recipients. The relevant law governing organ transplantation did not recognise the importance of defining and regulating the work of the human organ donor, as well as the conditions under which this activity can be carried out, which included giving, testing, assessing the similarity of human organ donors, obtaining, preserving, assigning and transplanting human organs for the purpose of treating humans, which caused poor years of practice to carry out procedures in health institutions in this area, but without defining the conditions at national level as they would be done, as well as without creating a difference between a health care institution that could be a hospital for the donation of organs and health institutions that could be a centre for human organ transplantation, which resulted in the inability to issue permits for the work of all the above mentioned health institutions. One of the main reasons for the adoption of this bill is to increase cadaverial donations and increase the number of successful organ transplant procedures, and reduce the waiting list for human organs to be transplanted. It is necessary to establish the basis for the establishment of an organisational system, as well as to establish effective procedures for the donation, i.e. the procurement of organs of dead persons in accordance with professional standards, professional guidelines and ethical principles in modern standards of medical science and practice, as well as the quality of safety of human transplant bodies. The bill prescribed the adoption of a human organ transplant programme that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and also laid down a simplified procedure for the authorisation of health institutions to carry out human organ transplant operations, as well as the establishment of a single information system in the field of human organ transplantation in order to establish and maintain a traceability system. The role and tasks of the Biomedicine Administration as a competent body in the field of biomedicine at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia are also specified, with the precise inspection of the work of human organ transplant health institutions, which ensures the continuity of professional supervision in the field of biomedicine, which is specific due to the daily introduction of new methods and procedures, and imposes the need for supervision by experts with the greatest experience in practice that monitors the contemporary achievements of science in this area. The Republic of Serbia, in the context of social care for the health of the population, provides conditions and standards for the quality and safety of human organs for transplanting by providing funds for the implementation of the promotion of voluntary human organ donation, in order to inform the public and raise social awareness of the importance of human organ donation after death, to obtain equipment for the determination of death by neurological criteria, to establish an appropriate information system for the proper allocation of human organs and international co-operation for the establishment of a network of human organs and human organs transplant teams in the Republical programme for human organs transplantation and biomedicine administration, for the model of funding of human labour coordination teams, human organs and teams for human organs transplanting human organs in health institutions involved in the Republical programme for human organs transplantation, for the transport of human organs and standards for the establishment of human organs for the implementation of human rights and standards for the establishment of human organs for the establishment of human rights and standards for the establishment of human organs for the establishment of human organs. Each stationary health institution with an intensive treatment unit shall establish a system and an effective procedure for the donation, i.e. the procurement of human organs of dead persons, in accordance with best medical practice. The system and procedures shall include the availability of qualified personnel, equipment and procedures for determining the death, the provision of appropriate consent for the donation of human organs, the optimal disposal and maintenance of the vitality of the human body of the donor, the assessment of the similarity of the human organ donor, and the provision of rapid availability of relevant information for the needs of the state or international exchange of organs. It is prescribed that testing on the blood of communicable diseases and immuno-genetic testing of the donor and the recipient is carried out by a medical institution that has the authority to perform the testing. It is also prescribed that human organ transplants are carried out by a health institution of the tertiary level of health care from a government-led network plan and authorised to carry out take-up activities, i.e. transplants of one or more human organs. The Director of the Biomedicine Administration shall, by means of a solution to the issue, withdraw the authorisation to carry out operations in the field of human organs transplantation. Taking a human organ from a living donor for the purpose of transplanting a recipient is decided by the human organ transplant team and the ethical committee of the human organ transplant centre. Taking human organs from a living donor for transplanting into another person's body for treatment is allowed if the following conditions are met: that the human organ donor is a full-year and business capable person, that the human organ donor has given written consent as an expression of free will and after having detailed knowledge of the risks of giving that a risk assessment of the life and health of the human organ donor has been carried out and has found that there is no significant risk to its health and that the Ethics Committee has given consent to taking human organs. In addition, it is prescribed that human organ transplant centres are obliged to monitor long-term human organ donor health after human organ transplants and keep records of human organ donors. Taking human organs from a deceased person for transplanting another person can be performed only after diagnosis and determination of death based on medical documentation. The Republic's waiting list according to the type of necessary bodies consists of the Biomedicine Administration for patients who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, extremely human organs can also be allocated to foreigners in the context of international organ exchange. All tasks in the field of human organ transplantation shall be carried out in accordance with the relevant professional standards, professional guidelines and ethical principles, as well as the quality and safety requirements of human organ transplants prescribed by this law. Health institutions carrying out human organ transplant operations shall keep documentation and ensure traceability of all obtained and transplanted, and unused human organs in the Republic of Serbia from the donor to the recipient, and vice versa. The Biomedicine Administration shall ensure that the unique system of identification of the donor and the recipient is applied in order to allow the traceability of the organ from the donor to the recipient associated with it. The documentation provided for in this provision shall be kept for 30 years in writing or electronic form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41825	Thank you. The word is Sonja Pavlovic. He's not here. The word is Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41826	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, today we have a set of areas in the field of health. The proposed laws define the register of stem cell donors, determines the adoption of a human organ transplant programme and simplifys the procedure for issuing authorisation to human organ transplant health institutions, as well as the procedure for granting consent to organ transplants. There are long lists of patients waiting for organ transplants that will extend and make life easier for them, and an even greater number of those who, unfortunately, have not welcomed that moment. The data tells us that the largest number of donors and heart transplants was last year. It is this law that aims to ensure optimal enough human organs and simplify the authorisation process, which will increase the number of lives saved. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, according to the results of the national survey of life, Serbia's 2014 population, the use of psychoactive substances, i.e. the use of illegal drugs, was recorded in 8% of the total population aged 18-64. According to a study conducted among 16-year-old students, a total of 8% of students tried drugs at least once. In the student population, 83% of the students said they once tried narcotics. Of those who have tried narcotics, 4.5% consume them every day. The production and smuggling of psychoactive controlled substances in Serbia is the most profitable form of crime. It is of paramount importance to establish an early warning system for new psychoactive substances, and the ultimate goal is to inform all subjects in Serbia about the emergence of new psychoactive substances and measures to reduce the harmful consequences caused by their use. While the drug monitoring centre, based on the analysis of the data collected, will look at the needs related to the improvement of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation programmes. The availability of dangerous narcotics is frightening, and the consequences can be deadly. The media is full of different stories about victims of drug use, including a huge number of teenagers. Starting with the fact that drug consumption in Serbia has increased in recent years, the accent is placed on the prevention of drug abuse and treatment. In 2014, the Serbian government adopted a strategy to prevent drug abuse for the period 2014 to 2021 and its follow-up action plan, which envisions activities in the area of reducing drug demand and drug prevention. The worst is the fact that drug use leads to an increase in incurable diseases, an increase in violence, crime and other crimes in which drug addicts are easily involved. What is inevitable is the enormous involvement of the interior ministry in finding drug trafficking networks, where hundreds of kilos of various drugs were seized in the continuous struggle with drug dealers throughout Serbia and a large number of laboratories were discovered to produce these substances, which we did not mention today. It is our job to get as much involved in activities where we will raise awareness and knowledge, above all young people, about the harmfulities and risks of drug consumption and to involve young people in the fight against these monsters. I am impressed with the results and engagement of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Health in the fight and detection of drug networks and I support you to have as much action as possible as possible as possible of the Aurora action. In voting day, the SNS will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41827	Thank you. Vojislav Vujic. Bosko Obradović. Milimir Vujadinovic. Balša Bozovic. Alexander Markovic. Maria Jevdzic. Ivan Kostic. Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41828	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Honorable Mr Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, are today on the agenda of this assembly session of three health laws, and these are: a new law on human organ transplantation, whose reasons for adoption are contained in the need for the area of human organ transplantation to be fully regulated and thus created and provided conditions for the achievement of human organ quality and safety standards intended for transplantation. In addition, a sufficient number of human transplant organs should be provided to preserve human dignity both the recipient and the human organ donor. This law will clearly divide health institutions that will carry out transplant operations from those health institutions that will be a donor hospital. In addition, by adopting a transplant programme that will be unique in Serbia, which will clearly define the procedures and procedures for the overall process of transplantation that will introduce order in this area. A unique information system will also be established in the field of organ transplantation, i.e. a traceability system, and a simplified authorisation will be made for healthcare institutions to work on organ transplants by inspectional supervision by experts who have been specifically trained to maintain a high quality of this medical service. As regards the reasons for the adoption of the new Law on Human Cells and Tissues, they are contained in the need for the area to apply human cells and tissues to the highest standards of medical science and practice, since this area is developing intensively and giving us treatment opportunities. The law defines institutions that can be banks of human cells and tissues. In addition, it is also necessary to define a register of progenitors of haematoposis cells that will enable the finding of incompatible donors and provide the necessary cells for the purpose of transplantation and an information system of traceability can be established in this area. Any citizen of Serbia can give written consent to the application of his organs and tissues, just as it can in writing or verbally and ban it. But if he hasn't made his point in life about this, his family can do it at the time of his death. The adoption of this new law will create conditions for promoting giving and raising our citizens' awareness of the importance of giving with respect to the principles of traceability for the purpose of treatment, thus improving the quality of health care provided with EU regulations on this area. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, in accordance with the EU Directive, the concept of a new psychoactive substance is introduced to include these new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs, thus providing a legal framework for the handling and taking of measures regarding the concept of a new psychoactive substance. This also provides a legal framework for the establishment of a drug monitoring centre and their dependence at the Ministry of Health to monitor, collect and analyse data on the existence of drugs at national level, and will be linked to the same centre at Europe's level. The centre will collect data on the use of drugs in the general population, treatment of addicts, mortalities, infectious diseases and risky behaviour associated with its use as indicators that are indicators of current supply, sales and distribution of drugs. The law also defines legal frameworks for the adoption of sublaw regulations that will regulate the storage, causing and destruction of deprived psychoactive controlled substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41829	Thank you. Maria Janjušević. Desanka Repac. Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Alexandra Jerkov. Ivana Stojiljković. Maja Vidinović. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41830	Thank you. Honored presidents with associates, respected ministers also with co-workers, respected representatives of the judiciary, the SNS has no dilemma when it comes to supporting laws relating to life, improving the quality of life of its citizens, and there is no dilemma when it is necessary to support a proposal to elect judges because we believe that the choice of judges will contribute to the efficiency of the judicial system, and the efficiency of the judicial system is also in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I must point out that the laws coming from the Ministry of Health are a significant step forward towards improving the health system in general, but also in applying new methods, in treating those citizens, and their number is not so small, which is the only way to cure and survive, or the only way to live just transplant organs. In that sense, I believe that the law relating to organ transplants is a significant step forward in the civilization sense, but also a significant step forward when it comes to breaking prejudices and stereotypes that may have been true in our society so far. And how significant I consider a campaign that will lead the Ministry of Health in order to find, that is, an adequate number of organs that will serve as a transplant and extend the lives of all of whom life and the future both of them and the lives of their families and how it depends. What I also want to point out is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Why do I want to point out the special importance of this law? Because abuse of psychoactive substances is also a serious problem not only of health, but of the social problem not only of health, but of the social problem and of the abuse of psychoactive substances is not just a matter of the health ministry, but just as you have shown by the bill. This requires a multidisciplinary approach and inclusion of all, both the NGO sector and local self-government, as well as all competent ministries alongside the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Interior and all other ministries. Of course, the amendments and additions to this law are based on the analysis of the law that was passed in 2010. So those negative consequences, or the negative effects of this law, have been seen, and this law is what we want to correct. Of course, it is also based on the 2014-2020 strategy. It is also based on action plans, but it is also based on the objectives proposed and adopted by the government as early as 2014, which are achieved, and one of the objectives is just to reduce the supply, reduce the demand for narcotics, then international co-operation in countering psychoactive substances, then adequate coordination, which is what you do with this bill and then monitor, evaluation and reporting. Why is all this important and why is the establishment of a drug monitoring centre significant? So in order to even know what the scale of a phenomenon is, we have to have a central database. Why is a central database important when it comes to psychoactive substances? Because every strategic planning and every action taken from strategic planning is based on adequate and relevant data. These data will for the first time be relevant by forming this center. Why is it still important? Why are these data and analysis of these data important? In order to plan and take adequate measures that will, in fact, prevent the abuse of psychoactive substances, but perhaps far more significant than that, to plan those measures and activities that relate to preventing the creation of problems, or prevention. It has been mentioned here today by opposition MPs that the IDP has done almost nothing on the plan to stop and fight drug dealers. I have to point out that over the last three years, the D.A., along with the D.A., has seized 10 tons of narcotics. Among the drugs is the most marijuana, but only last year at the "Nikola Tesla" Termo power plant, 200kg of narcotics were destroyed, including the most marijuana, but also 40,000 other tablets. I also have to stress the great role and coordination and synchronised activities and preventive activities of the Ministry of Education which in children of primary school age, which is the fourth and sixth grade of primary school, implement preventive programmes just to make sure that children at some earliest age, and you will certainly agree that we have to start with preventive activities already from kindergarten, familiar with all the harmfulities of the abuse of psychoactive substances. It's a worrying deadline since the face first abuses a psychoactive substance, until the appearance of a doctor. According to some studies, although the real research was actually carried out only in 2014, it has been ten years. It's a great time period and we really have to do everything possible to achieve effective, adequate, time-consuming measures to prevent this problem. I also have to point out that as far as analysis of samples of psychoactive substances is concerned, that sample analysis is done in the MUP and in the BIA labs. There are five such laboratories in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They operate according to the highest international standards possible. This is the ISO 17025 standard and I mention this because the analysis of samples of psychoactive substances and data exchanges related to analysis and how significant it is from the aspect of international criminal investigations, because we know that drug trafficking is, unfortunately, one of the most profitable jobs. I'd be done with this. The SNS will vote for all proposals in the name of life and progress and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41831	Thank you. National MP Miladin Ševarlic. He's not here. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41832	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, gentlemen of the Justice Department, today I will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Psychoactive and Controlled Substances. Namely, drugs, alcoholism, and gambling are three vices that eat up Serbian society. Unfortunately, we do not have enough research, what is valid and good from research is the Batut Institute, which in its statistics has come up with a figure that there are currently addicts in Serbia, I mean opiates, 50,000 registered addicts, which is not a small number, but when you look at the EU, it is not a good comparison, but we are really a country that does not have a large percentage of drugs. I used to work at the Voždovac municipality, so I did research myself and held stands with representatives of the MUP and we came up with some information that there are a little more addicts than 50,000 in Serbia. This is registered. I think there must be over 100,000 people who have at least tried drugs once or more. In Serbia, it is a characteristic that mainly Southers consume more opiates than women, and that percentage goes about 90%, and women are mostly tablets and it is about 10% of women who consume drugs. What is very valid and should be pointed out is that from the earliest childhood, it means kindergartens, various exercises, and then all through schooling, and then through primary and secondary school, we have to explain to children and have permanent education and have meetings with parents, because parents are the most important link in the chain, and then schools, primary and secondary. What concerns me isn't just that big percentage, I'd say, these 50,000 people, but the way they're getting drunk. The mass of children who take heroin doesn't have the money to buy pure heroin, so then it happens that more children, I'm talking about children, although there are older populations, taking one needle. So we have disease phenomena, we have AIDS, we have a lot of infectious diseases, including hepatitis C. That's what medics and all professions need to take care of when it comes to our children's education. Otherwise, Serbia is on the wind, so to speak, in the east and west, west and east, so it is on the main route, or transiting a large amount of drugs. Fortunately, we've got a minister who's doing very well and very well, so we have on an annual level an extremely large seizure of that drug. In Serbia, the most cannabis is used, then synthetic drugs, meaning pills, then heroin, which is extremely expensive, comes up to 22,000 euros per kilogram, and eventually cocaine that is between 40,000 and 50,000 euros. You don't need to be smart enough to calculate that money can buy a two-bedroom apartment and appeal to all young people this way that they never try drugs in their lives, because people think that there are easy and heavy drugs. There's no easy and heavy drugs, there's drugs, it's moving away from light drugs, so it ends up on heroin and cocaine. What I would point out is that Serbia is successfully waging a war on narcotics. The highest percentage of money passes through this country. Something goes by, something doesn't go through, so it needs to be networked, and that's what you've just done, different institutions, from the Ministry of the Interior, through different ministries. We must all be networked and monitored, especially customs. Customs is the one where exams are conducted, which finds enormously large amounts of drugs. Serbia is fortunate to still have unsamped ones, sometimes something is wrong, but it is mostly a stable and good country. Otherwise, gun and drug trafficking is the most profitable business in the world. With us, thank God, simply because we do our job well. What should be pointed out is that Serbia has seen a high percentage or increased frequency of synthetic drug use. In 2015, 1.3 tonnes of herbal cannabis, heroin 26kg, 6 kilograms of pills and others were seized. It should also be pointed out that, for this law, the public debate was held for almost a month in 2017 and there were mostly well-intentioned suggestions. One of the common ones, meaning the ones that were repeated, was to legalize cannabis. I'm a graduate sociologist, I'm not competent to talk about it, I know it's not legalized cannabis, a resin of cannabis for treatment, because the waist is just saying that cannabis doesn't heal, that it can only cause problems that concern, some kind of similar methadone, to slow down pain, but it can't heal. And I'm sure it might not be even though there's a big petition to do it. I leave that to more competent people than I am. And what needs to be pointed out is that the purpose of this law is to collect data. It's very important when you have monitoring. So it's very important when you have statistics on what demand is, what happens in this country, where that drug ends. You do your job well, all praise for your work, effort and for your entire click or for all your representatives. It should also be said that the first more serious research was done in 2014 at an exemplar of 5.385 people and that for the first time, drugs are tested in primary school, and that there is a population more common in opiate use from 18 to 64 years of age. What I do know is that, unfortunately, one of the nine-year-olds, not me, but the Institute of Batut, has tried drugs and it is inadmissible. That's where I'd wonder what's wrong with institutions, what about parents, what if a kid goes to kindergarten, school? So we all have to be involved. Interaction is the way to a good way to prevent drugs in Serbia, not only in Serbia, but in the world. In Serbia she died annually, in 2015 41 people died, thank God that's much less, 2.5 times, than in 2000 or 2009. It means that people are slowly coming to, because it's one of the greatest monsters of the 21st century. And not only that, that someone's ruining themselves isn't good, but it's ruining the whole family, it's ruining society. What else do you say? Maybe just that there should be more tribunes, a lot, a lot of education, and I'll be happy in the voting day to support all the proposals of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41833	Thank you. Natasa Vukkovic is giving up the discussion. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41834	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, it is an extraordinary honor for me to be able to discuss today this set of laws on the agenda concerning organ transplants, cells and tissues in man. The government of Serbia as well as the Ministry of Health is constantly working, making efforts to provide all adequate preconditions and conditions for the development of donorship, and one of them is certainly the proposal for a law on human organs transplanting today on the agenda. Serbia today has highly professional transplant teams in reference health institutions that every day, with absolute commitment and commitment to this business, carry out transplants and save the lives of our citizens. In 2017, the number of donors realised is 40. 92 transplants were performed, of which 62 kidneys and 23 livers and seven hearts. This data suggests that Serbia is on a good path to Eurotransplant membership, that we have reached the level of equipment and expertise and that we can meet the very strict criteria of this organisation, become their partners, and that our healthcare until a few years ago is the weakest ranked in Europe, has significantly improved, as is awareness of the importance of donorism at a significantly higher level, but still not at high enough. Serbian citizens should be aware that the transplant for some patients is the only way to treat but also life and that each of us, our loved ones, can be in this situation. Sixteen times more likely that we will need a foreign body than we will be able to give our organs to someone else, so I, like everyone, hope, MPs, regardless of the political commitment in the voting day will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41835	Thank you. The word is Dejan Nikolic. The word has the Soul Stojkovic. The word is Dragan Vesovic. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41836	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with Associates, I will talk today about one law, a draft law that has been discussed less today, is a bill to confirm an additional protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the International Atomic Energy Agency, with an agreement between the SFRY and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees regarding a non-proliferation contract. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 97(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides its international position, and under Article 99(1). The National Assembly shall confirm international contracts when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. Like any responsible authority, this authority finally had to bring one, i.e. to propose one such bill, because some in previous years, some in previous authorities, probably dealing with some personal issues and problems. The Republic of Serbia is traditionally committed to preventing the spread of nuclear weapons and the use of nuclear energy, exclusively for peaceful purposes. The direct basis for preventing the spread of nuclear weapons is three interrelated international legal acts. The additional protocol to the agreement on the application of guarantees in connection with the non-proliferation treaty was made in Belgrade on July 3rd 2009, based on the government's decision and it is necessary to confirm it by the National Assembly. So, since 2009, someone from the previous authorities has not thought to confirm this Agreement. Finally, the SNS and the authorities led by, among other things, Alexander Vukic, as the responsible authority, passed such a bill. The non-proliferation treaty is the basis for the implementation of the nuclear non-proliferation regime. The international plan came into force in 1970, and its objectives are to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, i.e. technology, to encourage the use of nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes and to spread the idea of disarmament. A total of 191 countries from around the world, not counting international organisations, form the parties to this international contract. The Treaty establishes a guarantee system which is in the jurisdiction of the International Atomic Energy Agency. So, with this International Atomic Energy Agency, we have foreseen and signed a Protocol that is now to come into force. In order to implement the provisions of the Treaty, the International Atomic Energy Agency concluded individual guarantees agreements with States Parties with the non-proliferation Treaty. Among them is the agreement on guarantees in force in the Republic of Serbia. These agreements define a way of calculating and controlling nuclear material and conducting regular inspections aimed at preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. They confirm that declared nuclear materials are used exclusively for peaceful purposes and regulate other essential elements regarding the verification carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency. In order to strengthen control and verification mechanisms, therefore, this additional protocol has been adopted, and by re-entry into the membership of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Republic of Serbia has also accepted the obligations set out in the Statute of the International Agency, which has pledged to use nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes and to work to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. The inspections to be carried out, regular inspections, through controlled visits, aim to avoid the spread of nuclear weapons. On this basis, the Republic of Serbia accepts a previously ratified agreement between the SFRY and the International Agency on the application of guarantees regarding the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons Treaty, in line with which in our country, the nuclear facilities of Serbia and the Institute of Nuclear Sciences, Vinch and other locations and institutions where nuclear material is used, regular controls, control visits, inspections. What are those others? In addition to these nuclear facilities, nuclear material is also used at other locations, which are universities, institutes, medical institutions, industry and which can also be subject to inspection supervision. The inspections are now taking place in accordance with the provisions of the existing Guarantee Application Agreement, and visits by the International Agency inspectors have a limited character. Once the Act of Confirmation of an Additional Agreement enters into force and its provisions begin to apply in full, the International Agency and we are beginning to carry out detailed inspections, the scope of accession has been expanded, which has not been the case so far. The Republic of Serbia undertakes to provide significant more information to the International Agency and to exchange nuclear material and related information. In the end, why is this law important? By entering into force of the Act on Confirming an Additional Protocol, as well as its implementation, the Republic of Serbia is achieving both international political and other direct national well-beings. So, what's good for Serbia? Confirming the traditional orientation of the Republic of Serbia towards the use of nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes and its determination to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. Furthermore, to facilitate the country's access to imports and technologies related to nuclear activities, to help prevent the accidental development of a network for illegal trade in nuclear materials, to establish a universal national standard for the verification and enforcement of commitments undertaken to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, to advance the country in the process of achieving integrated guarantees and to open space to further reduce the number of traditional inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency and to meet international obligations and to comply with international recommendations of the EU and its legislation. That's why I suggest we pass the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41837	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. The word has been made by MP Branko Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41838	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the SNS supports the proposed health laws, which, as well as other laws that have passed the public debate, will form a pillar of health reform in the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is seen in the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments, as well as through the adoption of a large number of new good laws, creating the most favourable conditions for the development of the state. The adoption of the proposed laws will regulate the whole area of organ transplantation through recognition of the importance, definition and arrangement of activity in this area, as well as the conditions under which this activity can be carried out. The objectives of passing proposed laws are, above all, to increase the number of cadaveric donations and increase the number of successful human organ transplants, as well as to reduce the waiting list of human organs transplants. The achievement of the objectives set will be achieved through a clear division of health care facilities to those involved in transplant operations, i.e. taking human organs and organ donation hospitals. At the same time, there is also a clear division of jobs and obligations carried out by one, or another health institution. A unique information system will be established in the field of human organ transplantation and along with the adoption of a republican programme for this area will inevitably lead to a reduction of the waiting list for individual organ transplants. Progress in health information, introducing an electronic reset, shortened waiting time for oncology patients, improved mental health status, as well as record results in organ transplants brought Serbia's health from the last 34 to an enviable 20th place in Europe. In 2017, it will remain recorded by a large number of donors and a large number of transplants made. A bone marrow transplant centre has been opened at the Clinical Centre of Serbia and has invested 90 million dinars. We have reached EU standards in this area and rightly expect Eurotransplant membership, which would mean greater opportunities for transplanting those citizens who need the authorities. A Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad was established and this route was sent to about 70 of the youngest patients in the best foreign clinics. A constant arrival of foreign experts has been made possible for insurance companies to be treated in their country, and domestic doctors to acquire new knowledge. Serbia has also recognised the importance of caring for patients with rare diseases of about 450 thousand in the country, and has defined a billion and 500 million dinars in order to treat them in the 2018 budget. In 2012 130 million dinars were allocated for the same purpose. The Nis Clinical Centre was built in which 50m euros were invested. The funds have been provided for the completion of clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. New homes of health have been built. Almost all health institutions in Serbia have been completely renovated. A gamma knife has been obtained, and the purchase of a modern radio-therapy apparatus for stereotoxic radio-surgery is under way. Every day, this apparatus will be able to radiate up to 30 patients and will significantly shorten the radiation time, so instead of four weeks, the treatment will last five days. By building and equipping a new facility of the Institute of Oncology and Radiology and procurement of over 10 linear accelerators and CT simulators in previous years, Serbia has met world standards in treating oncology patients, which is that it owns a modern radiation apparatus for 250,000 inhabitants. Over 6,000 specializations and subspecies have been allocated for the last five years, mostly from the deficited branch of medicine, such as anesthesiology, radiology, paediatrics, neurosurgery and other branches. By the end of this year, the first young experts in these areas will be worthy and quality replace their retired colleagues. For the first time, unemployed doctors of medicine can get specializations without a previous two-year internship, such as former practice and thus enable young people to professionally improve and provide themselves with a quality job. These facts are evidence of the strategic and visionary policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which fundamentally realises projects of vital importance for the development of our country. Only new investment in infrastructure and the adoption of good legal and other rules will create better conditions for continuing the reforms that aim to increase citizens' living standards. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41839	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41840	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected members of the High Council of the judiciary, I will shorten my discussion, since there are no against us who have tried to direct certain criticisms. Here, Mr. Loncar, I speak to you, you've only made two sentences in a year, but the predecessors in 15. I have no intention of saying what you've done now, since the people know it very well. They tried to criticise some without arguments, so don't let it turn you on. They're criticizing because you've been working. There was one who tried to criticize you, six months in this assembly, called Prof. Dr. Pavlovic. He's famous for making movies, we call him - a soulful porno, out of shame he shouldn't appear here. If there's a little morale of the professor, I expect the MP to resign from him. If Mr Meho Omerovic resigned today, I expect Mr Pavlovic to resign. I can't believe he showed up today after six months. There was another one after a year. There are 15 of them on my record, they haven't shown up in this tall house in eight months. They're going somewhere to some reporters and they're going there, and they're going there, and they're going there, and they're going there, and they're going It's about simple unemployed, lesbians, hohstapplers, you see empty benches, they're not able to sit here for an hour, let alone do something in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41841	Let the others go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41842	Two sentences for the High Judicial Council. Thank you for choosing the candidates well. You didn't work as predecessors. They've done to you before what the history of the judiciary hasn't recorded since ancient times to this day. They chose a dead judge for Judge Lyubisha Ristic. Nata Mesarovic said she spent 200 hours talking. I ask her and she's been asked by the citizens -- how she could have talked to a dead judge, and she charged the money. I still don't speak, one of the judges, and her name is, I don't have time, but allow for the example and that if they had to not get up these against us, and her name is Sonja Brkic, she was elected judge and she was also a member of RIK. Is that the judge's law forbidding it? He forbids it, at least at the time. I believe he's banning today. She didn't mind taking 2,673,000 dinars. Dear MPs, she didn't return them. That's what the previous regime was doing. I'm sorry they're not here to lead the controversy. They get away, the drones run away, and then they don't have the guts to talk any more. I'm going to end this now with a single sentence. From the European Commission's report, which gave us an assessment that the judiciary at the time of their government was the worst in Europe. So here's what this sentence says. From the book I took on justice reform in Serbia 2008, page 96, that stands. The European Commission continues, I quote - the judges' re-election process was non-transparent, thus risking the principle of independence. It's a finished quote. Who the hell wanted to teach you a lesson from the High Council of Justice? They don't have morals. If they had, they wouldn't show up today. Professor Pavlovic, this one showed up, end of bankruptcy, after eight months. He's escaped. They've been unable to sit here for three minutes, let alone something else. And finally, Mr. Minister, you can be a happy man, for your term of office no affair has happened in health care. I don't have time and I don't want for other reasons, nine in their, nine affairs of the unseen. That's what we'll say when the amendments come, and we'll cross the spear with the gentlemen against us. One letter, I think they've never had enough of it, the other day the president of the state called it a jinx. It's a shame. She's a jinx. Our president of the state has done more in five months than in ten years. Baksuz is their president there who destroyed 14 bankruptcys in some way and raised every 50 million dinars. As much as Mr. Risticevic said, he's had enough of the Americans, I'm not even sorry what money he took. I'm sorry it's from our poor girl they took. I'm sorry, but we'll have time for amendments. Don't worry about what they called today, it's just a plus in your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41843	Thank you. There are no speakers on the list anymore, and I'm asking if anyone who hasn't taken advantage of the right to Article 96 is coming forward. Rules of Procedure? Nenad Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41844	Thank you, Chairman. I'd just like to use this short time to look back on the choice of judges who choose for the first time. In this explanation we have received, there is a chronology of events from advertising to making certain decisions by the VSS which is responsible for carrying out the evaluation of judges and that these decisions after delivery to the Assembly and to us for adoption. What I would have observed here is that in this explanation, we didn't get any rank as judges were evaluated, just to mention that for these nine seats in the Administrative Court, there were 118 candidates, and that for one seat in the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad, 27 candidates applied. Therefore, especially for this one place was one by 27, it is obvious that a lot of candidates appeared on the ad that was called, it is commendable to have an internal ad called. However, we do not see how this procedure was implemented. I have no doubt that the VSS carried out the procedure itself according to the law. However, no ranking list has been delivered to the MPs and to the public at all, let's say that these judges have been scored according to certain criteria that have been set. Second, they even passed the exam. This is where it's listed. We don't see the results of that exam, nor do we know how many candidates they've chosen to propose to us to make a decision to become judges' assistants, how many points they've won, for example. How many of these are from the maximum number of points, etc. This practice, otherwise, that only a list of candidates with résumés is delivered to us like this, is unfortunately up-to-date, and I would like to propose to the Ministry of Justice and the VSS to let the MPs and the public know more about the way we choose. This way we always get the impression that there's something hidden in there, and you know that when something's hidden, there's always a suspicion that something's wrong, and I hope that it's for all of us to get the best candidates, that these assistant judges will someday compete and be good judges, etc. I think it's very important and unfortunately this practice has been used so far and I don't think it's right at all, and I'd like to, if someone from the ministry or from the VSS can, also on the VSS site the last few sessions have no minutes from the session at all. So we can't even inform ourselves there, except we didn't get... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41845	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41846	These laws, in particular the law that the MPs today spoke most of, or the proposal for a law on human organs transplants, should not have been debated far from the eyes and ears of the public. It's immoral that you did it this way, when there was mostly no television transmission, and it's expected that someone who doesn't want his organs transplanted in the event of brain death has to make a precise statement, and yet you said that he can ordinarily, which is just as serious a guarantee that it will and will be respected. How do you think that what this law provides will reach the public in the first place, which is very important to every citizen of Serbia? So you had to let this be a public debate, because you don't think Serbian citizens are going to read "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" to see what the text of this proposal looks like now, and in what day and the law? There's nothing good about this law, and basically it's unconstitutional. I have already said, we will address the Constitutional Court and we believe that this new composition of the Constitutional Court, where indeed a few of the judges of the Constitutional Court are people who are of moral integrity and excellent lawyers and we believe that they will take into account all the reasons set out in that constitutional appeal, because you cannot take the organs from someone who explicitly does not accept it. Donor cards were something that was acceptable. So whether we think individually, and whether it's okay or not, if we as laymen can accept the doctor's position on brain death, that's one side of the medal. If there's a chance that every man says yes, I want to be a donor, if I'm in such a situation in my life, and it can be accepted. But...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41847	You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41848	I end up with one sentence. But this way, it's absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41849	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41850	Thank you. Since I'm 13 and a half minutes old, this is gonna take a while until the game. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have heard the objections of those who, while they ruled, have done nothing. If after 2012, they had remained in power, the Serbian tricolour would have been a white flag. So nothing in this country was found. It was a house of bare walls. Progress in one household, in one country usually occurs when changes occur and when someone skilled, someone who wants, takes things into their own hands and makes some progress. They can complain everything, but I can't accept the criticism of those whose time nothing was done, it was all broken down. Those of us who wanted a market economy and democracy, from them we only got a monopoly and crime, an unprecedented corruption that ate the country. Those who advocate democracy should know that without a state there is no democracy. There's no such state. Today we listened to their complaints from the field of health. They didn't do anything in health care. The Nis clinic didn't make it, nor would they ever do it. They had a waiting list in Kamenica for six months, I think. They charged the order of radiation in Sremska Kamenica, trading numbers with which radiation was used. In the most severe diseases they've done business. The stone was costing five or six times her price was increased, five times the construction deadlines were extended, there were some famous builders, there were some aunts of the Republic Public Prosecutor in Novi Sad, at the clinical center, they were wives of various officials of the former regime's side regime, but they couldn't do anything, none of the equipment was obtained. With the same money we got the equipment, a clinical center was built, a gamma knife was purchased, linear accelerators were purchased as long as needed, rows were lifted, etc. There's still more to raise wages. Progress is slow, but it's visible to us who want to see it. Those who don't want to see it, they can't accept it. Because it's simply not their goal of making progress in this country, it's their goal of coming to power, and it's not the elections, it's the street. Today you see that none of Gilas' left or Gilas's right hand is missing. The fact that Borko is not here, I can understand, the left is not present in parliament, but there is no right. The right was supposed to be against that left, the left against the right, and everyone united against us. In order for me not to owe, I believe in this country, I believe in the MPs who give mandate to the government, I believe in voters who give mandate to the president, and I believe that step by step, step by step, ladder by step, ladders of success, hard to get to a better life, because we do not experience the ladder of success as an elevator, what they experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41851	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41852	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've heard what the National Assembly thinks. You expect from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group to continue this session. Support in all those affairs concerning the arrangements of our joint house, our Serbia, on the road we have traveled together during the time of the government personally led by Aleksandar Vucic, which we continue today when he heads the state and when in the government the main party is the Serbian Progressive Party, in the government that achieves the results on each plan, and in particular in the portfolio that you are leading. Support for those related to more than eight billion allocated for adaptation, promotion, equipment of health institutions across the country in just four years, so from Subotica to Vranja; those related to the Clinical Centre in Nis – equipped, modern, 50 thousand square meters; those related to the purchase of new sanity vehicles seem to me to be about a hundred of them, only in the last few years; those results relating to the purchase of linear accelerators and elimination or reduction, maximum reduction of those waiting lines for which we have talked; the results concerning the modernisation of Serbia and through an integrated health system; the results concerning and new jobs for the health sector and the expected increase of standards again in just three months from today; those results concerning the treatment of rare diseases from budget funds, from year to year, from now, all of which, in fact, during this year, appears to be in four and over four billion years, during this year, during the year, the year, the year, the year, the dira and in more and in more than four years, the year, the year, the year, the year, the diaries for the year for the last year for the last year for the last year for the last year for the last year for the last year for the last year, the last year, the last year for the last year for the last year for the last year, the last year, the last year, the last year, the last year, the last year, the last year, the last year, the last year, the year, the last year, the last year, the year, the last year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the All these extraordinary results make this country better, make our citizens feel better, to live better, to live better. Both these results and those joint efforts by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group have provided, provide and provide strong support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-17-0.u41853	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1-10 of the agenda. We'll continue our work Thursday, July 19th, at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
