ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40987	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I have received countless calls from a wonderful place, i.e. The village of Ba near Ljga. I ask the question, first of all, of course, of the Prime Minister of Resorm - what's going on in the village of Ba near LJig? Of course, the locals are dissatisfied with the daily detonations in the quarry, not these detonations unfounded, people even belong to a roof of houses of massive detonations. No one in the municipality reacts, no one in the competent ministry reacts. They had a meeting on the council of the local community, i.e. all locals with members and representatives of the ministry and local self-government and no one found fit to answer them. Of course, the company Granit pescar, which deals with these works and when you scratch a little and see below the surface what is there, who owns the company, we have a clear reason and a clear definition of why none of the competent institutions react. You have the right to guess who owns this company once. The company is headed for Zvonko Veselinovic's own sister and answers why no one in the municipality nor in the competent ministry should react and stop the company "granite pescar". Of course, no inspection, no municipality, no council of the local community has been shown permission to work, because they behave powerfully, people suffer every day damage from what happens and from the massive detonations in the quarry, and of course that the president of the municipality must not react because it is Zvonko Veseinović's company. Of course the minister must not react, because it is Zvonko Veselinovic's company. Of course no one in the SNS should react, because it is Zvonko Veseninović's company. You did not get Zvonko Vesenović, literally, brought to power, did he help you by harassing citizens, buying votes, blackmailing, but you cannot neglect the locals and citizens of LJiga. You can't. I ask the question – what will the ministry do? If people have all the permits to work, let them work, no one is against working, but you can't detonate by breaking down people's homes around here and nobody's responsible for it. No one's responsible for that. You can throw as much as you want. I know you have an obligation, but it is amazing to me that the media, LJg municipality president Dragan Lazarevic, tells the media – what you do drugs. This is the answer of a SNS municipality president to the question – what is happening with the company "Granit Pescar", whose owner is Zvonko Veseinovic's own sister? Dear local Ljga, that's the point. Neither the minister nor the president of the municipality must answer you, because Zvonko Vesenovic is the one who must not face the finger. I ask – what will happen to Zvonko Veselinović's company, which harasses LJeg's locals? On the other hand, I'm asking the question of the new finance minister, expert Sinisha Malo, how much is Serbia's responsibility? As the chairman is currently speaking, did the DS government assign the country or did the SNS lend 11 billion to the country for six and a half years of its power? I ask the third and final question to the prime minister and the entire government - what is unemployment in Serbia? Is it true that unemployment is 22%, while, please don't count according to your methodology, if someone doesn't apply to the Bureau, half an hour late, you take it off the record, if someone works one day a month, you run it as an employee? Exactly to calculate the unemployment rate in Serbia and I am very interested in what you will answer about what Zvonko Veselinović, the favorite cartoon character in SNS, is harassing the citizens of LJiga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40988	You, Mr. Milojic, when you ask the question next time there will be 12 billion. Until the other day, it was 10. You're making it bigger as you like. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40989	Thank you very much. I have a few questions. First, a little over a month ago it was announced pompous that pensions would be returned, that they would be paid back for those pensions, and that was news of the day, news of the week, news of the month. Nothing's happened since then. I ask the Serbian Prime Minister if there are any written ministers in the government who know how to prepare a bill that should have two points: the first point of abolishing the law that has reduced pensions, and the second point is when it starts to apply, what day after the publication in the Official Messenger? If the Prime Minister gives a negative answer and says there is no one in the government who can give the proposal in this text, I am prepared to hire a group of experts from the first elementary school, from any school in this Serbia, to write the bill. The second question is about the airport. As you know, a controversial, illegal, strange and inexplicable decision has been made by the parliament to donate the airport to the Serbian government, this same government that is in charge of the maximum. I ask – what is the value of the airport? What is the value of the Niš City Assembly in dinars, of course, both bookkeeping and market, to see if there is a difference between these two figures, donated to the Serbian Government? Will Niss get anything in return? No, it's not a sale, it's not a compensation, but is there any plan to get something real as a measure of what the Serbian government got from Nischli? The third question, of course, is all questions for the Prime Minister, whether Transport Minister Zoran Mihajlovic will be punished for all the lies or, as those in the ruling coalition would say, lies that have been told about the value of the airport, about the losses of the airport, about the number of passengers, about the investments that have entered that company since 2000 on the ground? It was a bunch of lies that were denied by officials, officials of the city of Nis and officials of the Ministry of Traffic, and people working at the airport and all who had any contact with information on the subject. The third question is addressed to the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior – who is behind the organised poisoning of Belgrade children with drugs and a series of liquidations that happen daily in Belgrade's capital? Is this some kind of interior ministry plan or a personal minister or his experts that he has around him, or is that the result of the mob savagery that has no opponents, anyone who can stop her from doing what she's doing? Whatever it is, this first or second, I expect the interior minister to resign. If it is the organisation of the Serbian and ministry's MUP, then it is necessary for the minister to be called to his senses and punished for violating the law, since it is not a legal way to fight organised crime or crime at all. And if he is unable to prevent the savages of Belgrade and some other mafias operating in Belgrade and the rest of Serbia, then that is another reason for the same force to resign and leave a place for someone who understands it better, who can organize a better team, who can make a better strategy and tactics to fight organised crime and who can gather associates who don't get together in the way that it has been so far, from realising a show of programmes and from Belgrade abortions, rather than being people with enough knowledge, courage, determination to fight crime. The final question is whether Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic has any idea what is being negotiated in Brussels? What's he doing with these negotiations? Is he the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Interior? (President: Bring the end of your colleague to Zivkovic. One more sentence. If it is foreign affairs, then he recognised Kosovo as an independent state, and if it is internal affairs, then don't be falsely represented.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40990	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40991	Thank you, Chairman. I'm asking the president of the National Assembly. Namely, our parliamentary group tabled an initiative last week to schedule a special session with the topic – Reports on political and technical negotiations with Pristina, and I ask whether the session will be scheduled and whether key persons who run the negotiations in Brussels will be present or not, and if not, why not? In fact, as MPs and as citizens of Serbia, we could see these days that another round of negotiations in Brussels had been completed and that round that, that they were consistent in their views and statements by the President of the Republic, including the Director of the KIM Office Marko Djuric, would not have been held, because they said that until the murderers of Oliver Ivanovic were found, and negotiations in Brussels would not continue and that there was no point in continuing any further arrangements until the issue was resolved. However, the round was held and what the Serbian citizens could see, it is interpretations of journalists and media what happened there and what was agreed. So no one in this country but a few people knows what is being discussed and what is being discussed about Serbia's most important issue at the moment. We also had announcements from the president of the Republic that he would come out in April with a clear stance and a proposal for a nation for Kosovo. Here we are the other day in July and we don't have that attitude. Absolutely what is gained as an impression is that Aleksandar Vucic and his government have no problem putting a signature on a legally binding agreement with Pristina, which will enable them to have a chair in the UN, but have a problem with how to adequately present it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so as not to have political damage. I think that, as Alexander Vucic said in 2008 and 2009 that parliament should support negotiations and that parliament should play this control role of every policy of the executive government, even if it is a Brussels negotiations, it should be discussed for this reason here in this House and it should be given a mandate or those representing Serbia to discuss and represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia, because we, the MPs sitting in this Parliament here are representatives of the people, the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia, and it is absolutely an obligation for him to have a theme and discussion on important and strategic issues, such as the Brussels negotiations and the legally binding agreements. What we are witnessing is that instead of saying it here in parliament, these days it is said across Serbia by SNS committees, where SNS activists and officials go and convince their members that they should go among the citizens and convince them that it is good for Serbia to sign a legal-binding agreement, providing Kosovo's chair to the UN and that it is a big campaign and that this is a key moment for the SNS that needs to survive, but I believe that Serbia's citizens will see through this time and the vile intentions that go in the direction of issuing Serbia's national interests, in particular Kosovo. So 50 years is the current topic. What Albanians failed to do in 1999, even 12 years later, will obviously succeed now, during the rule of Aleksandr Vukic and what they did not want to accept either Milosevic, later neither Kostunica nor Djindjic, nor Boris Tadic, apparently will accept Aleksandar Vukic. And as things stand today, the greatest fighter for independent Kosovo is Alexander Vukic. That comes from everything we've been able to listen to and see these days. Therefore, I absolutely believe that he should discuss this matter with us here in parliament, not that some media interpret something that is a question of whether it is true or not. So, the main topic should be – what is agreed, what is agreed and what will it mean for the national interests of the Republic of Serbia? Obviously, it is more appropriate for you to talk about who is guilty than to say that you are fighting for an independent Kosovo. This power is the largest fighter to create an independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40992	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40993	Mr Arsic, the SRS points to the pre-major of the Republic of Serbia, Ani Brnabic and the president of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic. Since 2008 Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic raised the issue of resolving our southern Serbian province of KIM from the UN under Resolution 1244 in Brussels between Brussels's criminal administration and the leaders of those who want to completely tear the province out of our composition, when Vuk Jeremic admitted that the International Court of Justice should give an advisory opinion, but only to create a maneuvering space and to keep distracting both Serbian and Serbian citizens at KIM, when you will understand this question, that the last moment, how many today, is to stop such talks under the auspices of those who are enemies of the Serb people and insist that, with the help of the brotherly Russian Federation, the KiM issue, I return it to them under the auspices of the UN? Since 2008, since such an act of betrayal, Jeremic and Tadic, the Serb people in KIM have suffered a great deal. They were forced to accept, some of them, Kosovo's documents because Jeremic insisted on that, too, the DS summit. The so-called so-called "supervised" has been introduced. administrative crossings, and today you face the fact that after decades of thought-out and organized action by the United States and its Western allies to tear the southern Serbian province away from us, you want to discuss some issues that only have one message for them, which is to expose you to an ultimatum in one day to sign a legally binding document and to recognise independence so-called "independence". Kosovo and, on the other hand, no dialogue, although several months were missing, now that they have returned there, there has never been. The goal is clear and sponsors of Thaci, Haradinaj and other Shiparian villains know that they only come there touristic and that they solve all this, that compromises with such were not and will never be and will be the only way, and that we warned you a few months ago, when with a clear plan to kidnap KIM came to Serbia and an official of the United States, a certain Mitchell, that you must do everything to address those who want to protect us and help us get the Kosovo issue back to the UN, and that is the Russian Federation. Every day, figuratively speaking, in Brussels, they will put a knife under your throat until the moment you say you have to agree to Serbia's entry into the EU on their terms. What other than betrayal, which is the most important thing, is Serbia still waiting in your accession negotiations? Yesterday, Minister Joksimovic praised the opening of the new two chapters 13 and 33. Serbian citizens must know that in addition to wanting to steal our sanctity of KiM, they also want to manage all of our natural resources and our resources. Chapter 13 on fishing is, in fact, that elaborate framework for management and our rivers, lakes and national parks, and then the waters of Serbia, which has warned you, if you have followed well, in your presentation and President of the Slovak Parliament, when he was recently our guest. So, besides liberalising imports of everything and everything from the EU have completely destroyed our fish fund and land that were once on the Balkans' space most successful in fish production, you now want to put everything here plus the budget of the Republic of Serbia under strict control and bring the entire economy into an even more insidious position. In the end, we'll tell Alexander Vukic, when it comes to his intention, and here, the Brussels officials say... (President: You are bringing an end, colleague Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... that it is a minor agreed thing to happen in 2019, as an introduction, what will make him do when it comes to KIM, to hold a referendum in Serbia on this matter for the entire Serbian people and for us, Serbian radicals, for every honest Serb...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40994	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Let me finish the sentence. I have warned you three times. You can't finish it, because every fellow MP will ask for it. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40995	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As so far, I will ask certain questions concerning our agriculture, our villages in southeastern Serbia, and, normally, throughout Serbia. The specific issue now is about agriculture, but more about rural tourism, or tourism. Question to the director of the hotel resort, the state-run resort complex "Old Mountain", Mr. Goran Karadzic, specifically – was the hotel's capacity filled in during the winter season and were there room for more guests? Another question to the hotel manager – will more hotel complexes be built in the next period, because there are places to do so? I have information that there are a number of interested investors who would build hotels on the Old Mountain. Otherwise, I would like to say that the Old Mountain is the pearl and beauty of our southeast Serbia, where the number of tourists from all over Serbia comes. I can say that from the Strlig airport is the fastest destination and something else that is very important for all people who will go to the Old Mountain, to see the beauty of the Old Mountain, the road is now done, there are a few miles left that are now ending. Serbia's roads end regionally, it's all done through Svrlig, now it's done by Svrlig, from Kalna to the Old Mountain, it's 6.5 kilometers, it's only a few days left, because the weather is not paved, which means that people who want to go to the Old Mountain can leave because the road is in good condition. One more thing is very important, the fastest destination is through Svrlig, but there is also a road from Književci to the Old Mountain and from Piroth to the Old Mountain. It's a great opportunity for all of us who live there, because by developing tourism, building new capacities, accommodation facilities, investing in the Old Mountain through hotel building, it's going to be a great opportunity to develop everyone, and I've really heard that there are a lot of investors who want to build their buildings there. Mr. Karadzic, director of the state hotel resort, is a man who, with his desire and enthusiasm to succeed, like he was born there, in our neighborhood, really wants the Stara Planina Hotel to attract as many guests as possible. Otherwise, I can say this, because it is near Svrlig, a great opportunity for the development of agriculture, a great opportunity for the development of rural tourism, because all tourists who are now going through Svrlig, or some other destination, means the fastest way is through Svrlig, have the opportunity to try our specialties, from our region – svrljjski cheese, svrljjski belmush, svrljjska kavalj, svrjjjjjjjjjjnjjjjjjj, svrnjejskih kakvaj, svrjjjjjnjjjjjnjjjjnjjnjjjnjnjnj, and other products that people have from Književec, Bela Palanka, Sokobanje and municipalities that they can and the municipalities that they can and wish to give their products there. So the question is, are more hotels going to be built on the Old Mountain because it's a big chance? Normally, as an MP, I will support people in the management of the hotel resort of Stara Planina and Mr. Karadzic, because he does this job with a full heart and does it honestly and honestly. Another question I would like to ask, and since we are now talking about the southeast of Serbia, I would ask the "Serbs of Serbia" will the process of reconstructing the railway from Nis, Svrljag, Književec, Zaječar, right through Vrajgranc, to Negotin, Prahova, since I know that it started with the reconstruction of the railway from Pozharec towards Majdanpek? This is where the work started, and we were back a few days, ten days ago, on my initiative we had a meeting in the municipality of Svrljig where the representatives of the town of Zaječar, Mr. Nicic, a man who really wanted the railway done, and Mr. Djokić, president of the municipality of Književec. She was the head of the district of Dragana Sotirovska and the president of the Municipality of Svrljig and the people representatives of "The Railways of Serbia". The meeting drew concrete conclusions requiring "Serb Railway" to enter into the railway reconstruction process as soon as possible. I asked that question and now I ask the question "Serb Railways" – will this year enter the process of reconstructing the railway from Nis, via Svrljig, Književci? I know that also Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic said at the sitting that the railway would be reconstructed. Otherwise, at the meeting were representatives of Mindi and Srlig, who want to give the most favourable price in the tender for concrete thresholds, to replace those who are bad, there are 170,000 thresholds on the track from Nis to Zaječar. By building this railroad, which is really important for all of us, which has been built back 100 years, where Milutin Milankovic, the man who built certain bridges that are now an example for all. (President: You are bringing an end, counterpart Miletic. ) Once again, I would like to thank the people in advance, and I would like to say one more thing, and that is very important, that "the railroad of Serbia" for the first time has opened a competition for the reception of 25 railway workers, which is a sign that the railway will be made, that it will be done and that there will be much more traffic capacity. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40996	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40997	Thank you, Chairman. Something about this system is not exactly electronic, I answered first, but it doesn't matter. So I have two questions on two of the most important addresses in the Republic of Serbia. The first is the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, and this is a question related to her answer, which she gave to all of us here in the National Assembly twice, when the government was visiting, or answering the questions of the MPs. Of course, I commended that gesture. She then directly, even a little bit angry, said: "How do you think we could allow this PSO (Community of Serb municipalities) to be offered as a condition or in a package with the signing of a legally binding agreement"? That's exactly what I asked her, whether after, behold, half a decade, more than five years after the signing of the Brussels agreement, that's the item that supposedly only corresponds to Serbs remained unfulfilled, whether it's possible that it's done because now the next new package of concessions required of Serbia would go with it, as you will finally get yours, like the PSO (Community of Serb municipalities), but then let's sign this, legally binding agreement, and the previous one is not fulfilled. So she, Malten, got angry "how you think so", and according to the information that comes from Brussels, not only by the means of these representatives, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo, as well as others, we conclude that things are going that way. So that this formation will be expanded to somewhere just signing or entering into that legally binding agreement. So another bitter pill, another humiliation for the citizens of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. With this in mind, my second question goes to the address of our chief negotiator, namely the President of the Republic, and I am very seriously asking both the public and Mr Vukic, given his statements after this last Sunday meeting in Brussels, what kind of war is it that is prevented, what peace is provided? He said, "We have provided peace for our people." I didn't know there was any direct war danger. Here, we have an MP here from Kosovo, both on the one hand and they can say if there have been any extraordinary circumstances and whether the situation is more difficult than usual, and otherwise it's difficult. If it's about incidents, we have, and now we have, today, this morning, had one serious technical incident and Serbian citizens, so last night, they were constantly exposed to direct, indirect threats and terror. This, unfortunately, is not new and the question is what our authorities are doing and how much they are doing with the appeal to the international community to prevent it. But it's a pair of sleeves. The other thing is if there was some danger from, and that's what the President of the Republic has just suggested, from some new Pogrom, from some new Storm for our people in the north. It is too serious to play by, on the side that there is no room for a new "Storm" or "Blash", since, as the effect and functioning of this government, it is just the north that is calm, step by step, the silent sub-taken way, in essence, already passed into Pristina's jurisdiction. So what was unimaginable five or six years ago is now the reality for our citizens in Kosovo and that, when they want to make a contract on telephony, they have to take a personal card, a Kosovo ID card, when they want to register cars, they have to take Kosovo authorities' documents, when they want to do any work, the administrative ones have to go to Kosovo municipalities. So that's the effect, directly, practically, tangible effect half a decade, more than half a decade, the rule of this policy being run and whose main protagonist is exactly SNS and Aleksandar Vucic. With that in mind, knowing what is heard, so, and what is said, in the meantime, I must say, let's not or be comforted by what the predecessors have done. The predecessors did what they did, something good, something bad, if they did good, wouldn't be predecessors, wouldn't be ex. Let's take a look, that goes for this current power, and also for some future one, if ever, let's try not to worsen the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and that our options are what they are and how much our inputs are that we're not yet playing them. So, what I'm saying is, instead of getting rid of the predecessors, let's make things not worse. The last thing about it, Mr. Vukic said -- here we now have to fight to save something from nothing, to save what can be saved, since we have nothing. I would say that the office of relativization, Resolution 1244 is nothing, Resolution 1244... (President: Bringing the end of your colleagues. I'm done. Resolution 1244 is something some predecessors have chosen. Whether it's much or little, anyway, but in any case, don't derivate, we devalue that card ourselves and that map in the light of Resolution 1244, which President Vukic hasn't mentioned in a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40998	The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u40999	I thank the chairman. I refer the question to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, how, according to the Law on Military Education of the University in its composition, it can have a high school unit with or without legal personality, according to the prescribed conditions and the statutes of a higher education institution, and in accordance with the Law on Higher Education, I ask the question – can the University of Defence form a detached department, or organisational unit in Nis? I believe that for the establishment of special departments of high-level military schools and the creation of new teaching bases on Serbia's territory, there is a possibility, because there are spatial capacities for such a thing, monitoring facilities and teaching chambers for some segments or courses of higher education of the Serbian Army. By forming such separate departments, a large number of young people from Nisavsky, Piroski, Toplic, Jablanic and Pcinjski districts would allow education in this area, which would be significant for the south of Serbia, especially because of its geostrategic position. As an example of good practice, there are positive experiences with teaching centres in Nis and southern Serbia, i.e. the departments of the Faculty of Law and Economics from Nis, Medvedja and Zajecar, as well as the Faculty of Economics in Bujanovac, Novosad University. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41000	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41001	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is helping God to help everyone. I would like to point the first question at the National Assembly President, Mrs Maja Gojkovic – will we, during this meeting of the National Assembly, since Thursday falls on the last Thursday of the month, have the Government of the Republic of Serbia here on the guests, right on Vidovdan, one year from the work of the Serbian Government, so that as MPs we can ask them appropriate parliamentary questions directly and directly, not just like this? The second issue is for the president of Serbia, as regards the negotiations he has unauthorized, without the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in Brussels. So, when will the president of Serbia inform parliament and the public about what is actually happening in Brussels right now? The fact is, for who knows which time he broke his promises. He said there would be no more negotiations in Brussels until it was revealed who was and how he humiliated Mark Đuric, until the Serb municipalities' union was established, until Oliver Ivanovic was investigated and, of course, here he is, renegotiating in Brussels even though none of it was fulfilled. It's just proof that it's the exact statistic that's determined from everything Alexander Vukic ever said, only 8% is true. What's important is that clearly the format of the negotiations in Brussels has changed. Even these anti-constitutional, former Brussels agreements and their implementation are no longer discussed there, but has moved to an agreement on the signing of a legally binding agreement with a false state-owned Kosovo. The fact is that a new cycle of negotiations leading to the recognition of an independent Kosovo by the Serbian state and the current government in Serbia has been launched. It's time someone told the citizens of Serbia. These days, we can hear in the tabloids close to the current government that the West is pressing Alexander Vukic and the current government. I only ask the president of the state, that's my question – to tell us how and how the West pressures him? Because there are two kinds of pressures, one is if he is pressured by the West as president of the state to give up KIM, and here I am publicly saying that we are ready to help him and defend his position of preserving KIM within Serbia, if the West is pushing him around. The second thing is if the West presses him to fulfill the promise he made in 2012 when the West brought him to power, which is a promise to give up KIM on Serbia's path to the EU. So that's two different things. One thing is if the West presses him to fulfill the promise he made to the West, and the other is if the West pushes Vukic to give up KIM. So, I ask the president of the state to tell us what he's negotiating in Brussels, about the division of KIM, what kind of referendum on KIM? The referendum is anti-constitutional, KIM is an integral part of Serbia, according to the presidential oath. He can read it again. There's no referendum on KIM. It's an anti-constitutional referendum, so we understand each other. If he wants to betray KIM and hide behind citizens, that's another question, but it's an anti-constitutional thing. The most important thing I want to ask the president of Serbia, what is his knowledge of some new flash and storms in the north of KIM? If this really exists as a danger, we ask him to hold an emergency session of the Serbian Parliament on this danger, on the subject of KIM and that we all hear it. If that doesn't exist, but he only uses it to scare the citizens, so to justify signing a legally binding agreement with the false state of Kosovo, that's another thing. So, the fact is that a certain compromise is being prepared. I ask the president of Serbia, what is a compromise? Renouncing KIM? Breaking Serbia's Constitution? Infringement of Security Council Resolution 1244? Recognising Kosovo's independence for Serbia's entry into the EU? It's not a compromise, it's a betrayal of Serbian, national and state interests, it's a violation of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. That we should not only criticise and ask for the government's representative's resignation, and again I ask for that shameful statement that KIM are no longer Serbia, here are concrete proposals on how to resolve the KIM issue, so I ask the president of Serbia to answer my question, what does he think of these proposals. Number one, return the KIM negotiations to where they belong at the UN Security Council. Under number two, apply Resolution 1244, which allows for a return of up to 1,000 members of Serbian state personnel in the KIM territory. Under number three, call on a Russian military mission in Serbia, which would guarantee Serbia's citizens' security in KIM and the Russian military mission would withdraw from Serbia as soon as NATO's mission retreats from KIM. So, will the president of the state, who has great contacts in the Kremlin, call on the Russian military mission, yes or no, and why not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41002	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41003	Thank you. I have questions in front of the parliamentary group enough for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and this is about these negotiations that are being held in Brussels and his, in my opinion, extremely irresponsible statements about what is being negotiated there after these negotiations are over. In addition to being irresponsible to those statements, which should be aimed at informing Serbian citizens what is happening there at all, they are also quite unsupervised and generally should be interpreted, because they mean nothing. So, the other night, we heard that the goal of these talks in Brussels is to preserve peace and to see that we get something out of nothing, because nothing has been left for us. Turns out we don't have anything on Kim. The question for President Vukic is, how do we have nothing and how is nothing left for us? First of all, we have a large number of non-Albanian populations living in existential fear, don't we have much to worry about? We have a great cultural heritage, which is on a daily level under the threat of vandalism because of cultural intolerance, don't we worry about it? And above all, don't we have huge assets on KIM, which belong not only to private persons who are Serbian citizens, but also to private and public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia. Is that even what we're talking about in Brussels? Are we even negotiating property or is it the intention to bow down, and the eyes of the public are clouding up some stories about war trumpets, "Blash" and "Storms", which apparently represent only an attempt to manipulate the fear of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? So, what's going on with the property, is it even the subject of a conversation in Brussels? What's going on with the private property? Internally displaced persons, for example, have applied for vomiting close to 30,000 usurped apartments, what's going on with that? Is that what we're talking about in Brussels? Is Brussels discussing the participation of the Republic of Serbia in various companies and business entities operating in the KIM area, such as "Trepca", "Skicenter Brezovica", "Cosmet Transport"? What about the infrastructure of the public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia, the infrastructure of the railway Serbia, the Post Office of Serbia, the "Serbian State", NIS Jugpetrol, Pristina Airport? The state of Serbia has invested certain capital in all of this. Is the subject of negotiations in Brussels even this property or is the intention of simply bowing down and justifying some kind of protection of peace, i.e. By avoiding war, which means the citizens living on KIM, the non-Albanian population, are every day threatening their own safety. Is that what we're talking about in Brussels? Whether we are talking about SPC property that keeps our cultural heritage down at KIM or these negotiations, as the President of the Republic of Serbia has said, there is nothing to talk about, is there anything there. I ask the President of the Republic of Serbia to stop acting irresponsiblely and to give such irresponsible excuses, rather than to rise to the height of the function he performs and to protect, above all, the property interests of the Republic of Serbia in these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41004	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? A colleague Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41005	Dear Vice President, I ask the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia, are there any elements of the crime in the daily spread of false news about the president and his family? The explanation – day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, daily media and political attacks, by forcing false news, by President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic and his family, especially his brother Andrej and son Danilo. These lies and attacks are placed by various political media charlatans in the field with certain centres of power from abroad. They share the goal of destroying Alexander Vukic and bringing to power those who would accept all the blackmails of the West and immediately hand over KIM. The false news is spread by certain political parties champions, individual journalists, certain analytical charlatans, individual MPs in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to destabilise the country and the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. Since they can't do it through Alexander Vukic, by direct attacks on him, because he's their impenetrable wall, they're making up lies about his brother Andrei. They spread various false stories through certain media and social networks that President's brother Andrej tried to recalibrate a well-known Saturday caterer, Lajoša Cacanju, and bought from him a famous restaurant, "Bos". As alleged evidence, a famous singer and musician, Zvonko Bogdan, reportedly witnessed their conversation. Dear citizens, Zvonko Bogdan was appalled by such fiction, he publicly denied the whole story by calling it common nonsense. Some leaders of a part of the opposition, and their followers, as well as distinguished MPs, told false news in this high house that Andrej Vukic, brother of the president of the Republic of Serbia, had taken over Belgrade's Francis restaurant from longtime owner Nikola Dimitrijevic. Very quickly Dimitrijevic answered and said it was a faceless lie. The restaurant owner showed documents showing that Mr. Andrej Vukic, brother of the President of the Republic, had nothing to do with the restaurant. These days, part of the opposition is making very dangerous lies about the destabilising of the country and the weakness of the reputation of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. They lied about water being poisoned in Belgrade and some cities in Serbia, and the truth is, the water is perfectly clean. They lied that Serbia's fuel is the most expensive in Europe, so they have blocked roads which are notorious lies, because the fuel is more expensive in 26 countries of Europe than in the Republic of Serbia. They lied that a journalist from the White Church, Stefan Cvetkovic, had been kidnapped and accused the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, with the aim of accusing him of being a dictator and Serbia as an uncertain place to live. And the truth is, the journalist staged his own disappearance. In this particular front, besides others, Sasa Jankovic, called "Prangia" Sala, Sanda Raskovic Ivić called "bundasica" from Rome, Slobodan Georgievi called Sloba "blebetalo" and Janko Veselinović called Janko "stanocrat". Some opposition politicians, MPs in the National Assembly, including Djordje Vukadinovic called Djordje "Vlah", Jovan Jovanovic called the "black belt" and others, among the first to publish a picture on the Twitter of President's son, Danila, rooting for Serbia on Mundijal. They built this to declare the president and his son Daniel criminals, because some fans with problematic behavior can be seen in the photograph. Remember, Vuk Jeremic called the Wolf a "moving", he lied that German Chancellor Angela Merkel did not want to see the president of Serbia, Mr. Vukic in Berlin, and it is true that President Vukic had already left for a meeting with Angela Merkel in Berlin the next day. And so, respected citizens of Serbia, lies fell, invariably, from day to day, and today my predecessors have said them in this high house. Thank you, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for immediately identifying their lies, their inventions, the worst kind, because they don't know anything else. They destroyed our past, our present, the future of our children, and if they had stayed in power for just a year, they would have destroyed our roots. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, SNS and the entire Serbian public are giving support to Mr Alexander Vukic even stronger, stronger, faster and without a reserve in his efforts to quickly modernise Serbia for the work of the country and our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41006	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zarko Obradović, Aleksandra Tomić, Dubravka Filipovski, Elvira Kovac, Aleksandar Stevanović, Aleksandar Šelj, Marija Obradović, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Dejana Radenković, Tijana Davidovac and Gordana Komić. We continue the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda - Proposal for a Law on War Memorials. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the light of the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda, the Law on War Memorials has been called upon to attend the sittings of Zoran Djordjevic, Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Minister without portfolio with associates. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41007	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs, today we are talking about the law, the bill of war memorials. Namely, every grave, every tombstone, every tombstone, every monument, park, monument, memorial, church, every site, represents a war memorial. Unfortunately, in this troubled country, every pedal is a war memorial. Today I will talk about a memorial park, whose construction is under way, about a memorial park dedicated to the Iron regiment, so to the Second Infantry regiment "Knjiz Michaelo", the Serb army. A Serbian army that, with its heroism, with its courage, impressed the whole world with its war morals. I will also remind the MPs and citizens that between 1912 and 1914, out of 4,500 recruits, the Second Infantry regiment "Knjiz Michaelo" survived only 1,500. That both in that period and in the period until 1918, they showed unprecedented heroism. I will also remind the MPs and the public that the personal King Alexander Karadjordjevic, first of his breasts, took down Karadjordjev's star with swords and struck Milivoy Brki Stojanovic, the famous commander of the Iron regiment, above all for the immeasurable merits of fighting for our country. I will also quote Egon Kish, a famous writer who during World War I who fought on the side of Austria-Hungarian as a corporal who said that in Serbia he saw that love and desire for the freedom of small peoples always outweighs the violence of greats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41008	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41009	Dear Vice-President, this War Memorial Act, which will also contribute to the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia and thus to the education and education system, and will in particular affect the adoption of the patriotic feelings of each student and every student. If Dragan Gilas, called the Giki Mafia, possessed patriotic feelings, and would not have robbed Belgrade Mayor Telekom Srbija in 2011, when the state-owned company under his pressure was forced to buy four cable channels, his "Arena Sport" for 7.7m euros. The Djiki mafia was a poor woman in 2007, and in 2016 it reported assets of 6.5m euros, and a little after 28m euros. He increased his wealth while in power at the expense of his own state. The Giki Mafia has left its own party in millions of debts as well as the city of Belgrade. Giki Mafia sensed that Belgrade's cash register was full and here it is again in politics, but in vain Serbian citizens cannot be fooled twice. Dear People's MPs, it is difficult to find an army in the world such as the Serb army and such as the Serb people who in just six years fought and won in their space together with allies, four empires, the Turkish Empire, the Hungarian, German and Austrian, and stopped the Anglo-Saxon Empire in Kosharam and Budjanovci, where the famous PSC conflicted with NATO in 1990, bringing down the F117 to begin to change history at one of the main historical turns of modern world history in the Balkans and try to stop the threat of an aggressive Anglo-Saxon new world order. It is precisely the beginning of the end of the empire that is collapsing, and Serbia remains an undefeated and military neutral country because it knows what freedom is. The Honorable Vice President was here yesterday to discuss the Jasenovac concentration camp for some misunderstandings, here's a small note. About 700,000 Serbs, 60,000 Roma, 40,000 Jews, four thousand anti-fascist Croats, thousands of Muslims and others were killed in Jasenovac. A genocide was committed against Serbs, Roma and Jews and a terrible crime against anti-fascist Croats. The Croats were killed for ideological reasons, on which genocide was committed. As for the character of the camp, yesterday there was a debate here, it was a place of mass, terrible killing in the most playful way, unknown in the world until then, not a labor camp like some Croatian historians want to push through. As the labor camp was declared by Ustashas as their followers, today many Croatian historians, all except Mr. Hrvoj Klasic and Mr. Jakovina, and Croatian statesmen such as Franjo Tudjman, Stipe Mesic. Stipe Mesic said it was a work camp and it had Serbs heading to rescue the head. I quote Stipe Mesic. Stjepan understands that the labor camp, the Croatian historian, in which he died, did not die, a thousand, and no more than two thousand, and no more than five thousand, as they say. Igor Vukic, an ex-Serbian, two thousand, and up to five thousand, etc., so as not to bother you further. Franjo Tudjman was the first forger of the Jasenovic victims of the 1960s, which I, my smallness, pointed out in the Croatian list "Vjesnik", and later others continued. Yesterday, he objected to us here by the party of the former regime that we had waged wars in the 1990s. Dear Vice President, we are proud to have defended our people when he found it most difficult. It's the greatest privilege a man can have. The war was waged by the United States, Germany, the Vatican, Croatia and Slovenia and broke the SFRY, as well as our domestic, domestic NATO dusters. The fact that the former regime's gentlemen accuses us and the citizens of Serbia of war, I'm not surprised. It is those who bombed us that speak out of their mouths as from the mouths of their party president, Mr. Djindjic, Zoran, who said in 1705, 1990, that "Yugoslavia must be bombed, just keep bombing, they will sign." It's a finished quote. "Der Spigel", number 20. 1990s. I quote: "Do not sign any agreement at the end of the bombing, because this allows Milosevic to be held in power," the German newspaper "Rin Caitung", concluded in 09.05.1999. I quote: "If the life situation of the people in Serbia deteriorates and the state's energy system is destroyed, Milosevic will have to sign everything you ask for," the Israeli newspaper "Her", 17.05.1990, and so indefinitely. Dear Vice President, I guess it's clear to you and the citizens of Serbia why MPs from the former regime are attacking us from whose mouth they're speaking. I'm happy my party president, Alexander Vukic, didn't say these words. As for me personally, since yesterday I was attacked here in this assembly, I am happy that I defended my people Serbianly in the Croatian Parliament in 1990, and I never attacked anyone except Ustaša and the emerging form in Croatia. I had the honour and privilege, unlike my political inexperiences, to be 54th witness in the process of the century Slobodan Milosevic in the international court for the former Yugoslavia, in The Hague, because I defended the honour and pride of the Serbian people and our president, and I hope theirs as well. For me, it is not a privilege of doctorate and 200 scientific papers, eight books, but a privilege for me to defend my people and the president of the Republic of Serbia in The Hague. That's the biggest political legal and civilization freak in the history of the world. Gentlemen of the former regime, you've burned this tall House, I've shut it down. You extradited my President Milosevic to The Hague on Vidovdan, and I defended him. When you come to power, you declare your hero president, and we have our hero from our Liberation Wars and the wars of the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41010	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41011	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister Djordjevic with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, our history is long, tragic, and at the same time glorious. It's full of famous battles and victories that have contributed to our country being free, independent and respected. We must not forget the heroes who gave the most valuable thing to this country and this people so that our children may be free, alive, and that is life. They showed us how the country loves and how it fights for it. We can't forget all those lost lives. It's our duty and our duty to take care of the memorials. These memories are a reminder that everything we've lost, but also a reminder of future generations, how important peace is and that they should be proud of their country's history. It is necessary to deal with issues that the law regulates as quickly as possible in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the state administration in the process of protecting regular investment maintenance. Funding, maintaining and editing war memorials are one of the reasons why the War Memorial law is passed by emergency procedure. As a citizen of Zemun, I cannot help but remember and remind citizens of a memorial located outside the Zemun Municipality, which was raised by participants in the 1991 and 1999 wars. That memorial contains 45 names of slaves who have given their lives for this country during those years. Among them are my schoolmate, who sat with me in the bench, Dejan Spasovski. It's the first soldier who died in early 1991 in those wars and accidents that hit us. I had the privilege of coming home. At the same time, we went to military service and, behold, fate today gives me the right to speak here in parliament. A priest once told me that some people die twice. That's when the soul parts from the body and goes where most of them are and the second time we forget them. This law allows us not to forget these people. We have to worry about that. I ask my colleagues to support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41012	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zharko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41013	I thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, today we have laws in the field of labour, martial arts and social affairs, and I have submitted an amendment to the War Memorial Act. This law regulates the matter that has so far been regulated by several laws, which is the Law on the Editing and Maintaining of Cemeteries of Fighters, the Law on the Marking and Maintenance of Cemeteries and Graves of Allied Army Members and other armies, or foreign armies in the territory of Yugoslavia, the Law on Cemeteries and Graves of Fighters abroad. So, with several laws, it was really necessary to pass a new law that would bring all the laws together and provide better protection, maintenance, regulation and funding for war memorials. This law will arrange how events from our past can be marked and what are the values Serbia wants to mark. This law shows that we respect those who fought for our country. We show that we respect and do not forget our war allies. We show that we respect other people's victims, because it's the only way we'll have the right to seek respect and justice for our victims. Serbia is a country that has a long history and tradition of free wars and has the right to say what values it represents, which it keeps and which it wants to leave as a guideline to future generations, and that is exactly what we do with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41014	Thank you. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41015	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on war memorials, which is on the agenda today, is the result of the detailed work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and is the intention to settle and give meaning to this area. That Serbia is on the road, it also says that over the past three years, more than the previous 20 years have been invested in the restoration of monuments, and we have witnessed that the role of state and local self-government units is greater and more significant when it comes to the regular maintenance of memorials and war memorials, where both cheaper and longer-term solutions are recognised. An orderly system in this area contributes to the improvement of respect for human rights and traditions, and by editing and maintaining war memorials, an important segment of our country's cultural heritage is recognised and it can certainly be a place to enrich the tourist offer, which is of great importance to our citizens, to be familiar with history, to know events related to these places, the story and the role of our people. That way, tradition will be nurtured and cultural heritage will be protected for the wars that are behind us. I would add that by realising this law, it will certainly put an accent in the area of great importance for the future of our people and that, by protecting war memorials and especially through regular maintenance, it will include many of the factors of our society that will bear responsibility and contribute to the development of the state, and in particular to the realisation of the budget and for this area, the budget as it is today, stable, with a surplus for which SNS management is responsible and, above all, President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41016	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted to the peoples by MP Borka Grubor. Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41017	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, a new legislative solution sets out the duties of units of local self-government associated with the regular maintenance of war memorials on their territory. The biggest newspaper compared to the existing legal regime is the responsibility of the ministry in charge of fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, to give consent to the rise of a new war memorial. Young Russian nurse Dari Aleksandrov Korovkin of Petrovgrad, who was 26 years old as a volunteer, came to Belgrade and directed to the Valjev hospital insisted that she go to Guchevo to help Serbian heroes in the famous battle "Under the Clouds". She pointed out with a rare sacrifice, courage and the most conscious performance of her duty to the wounded of the Drina Division, all the time fighting, day and night, very often in the rain of the bullet, right behind the first battle line. She personally wrapped 120 wounded a day, moving from trenches to trenches, seemed like a bullet wouldn't. What little bandage she had was used for the most severe of wounded, and kindness and mercy shared with all. The mention, a young and brave nurse named Daria, a Russian woman, heroine from a battle in Gucheva, left a permanent mark helping wounded Serbian heroes. As part of the Drinska Division's second call, during the care of wounded men on the famous Kota 708 Emin's water, an enemy Austrian grenade killed a young nurse on October 2, 1914. At the special hospital park in Banja Koviljaca, it stands as a sign of memory of Russian heroin in Serb ranks. In the year marking the 100th anniversary since the end of World War I, representatives of the Loznica City Assembly gave their consent and full support for raising the monumental monument to Russian nurse Daria Korovkini. It is about the expression of gratitude for the historical and friendly ties between Serbia and the Russian Federation. A monument to a brave Russian nurse will be placed near the monumental of Gučev heroes and Daria of the Serbian Royal Academy of Scientists and Artists from Bijeljina and visual artist and entrepreneur, academician Dragoljub Mirkovic, the town of Loznica and the Serb family. On Vidovdan, the monument will be avenged in two days on Gučev by Episcope of the Sabbath Lavrents with a clergy from the Adriatic, with the presence of senior officials from the country and the world and from both shores of the Drina, as part of the final event "Vidovdanska Loza", traditionally organised by the Serbian Royal Academy of Scientists and Artists. Russian Ambassador Alexander Cepurin also confirmed his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41018	Thank you. (Gorica Gajic: I answer the word. Col. Gajic, did you ask for a word? (Gorica Gajic: By amendment.) You can't. You're out of time. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41019	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Djordjevic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, according to data from the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the Serbian military cemetery, except in Serbia's territory, lies in the territory of neighbouring countries, but also across Europe and North Africa, and more than 6,000 Serbian military cemeterys have been recorded in the country and abroad. Within the complex of Allied Cemeteries from World War I, the Zeitinlik Cemetery is located in Thessaloniki. The final works on the construction of the cemetery began in 1933 under the leadership of architect Budimir Christodul, one of 1,300 corporals. The papers were brought in at the end of 1936 to perform the solemn awareness of the mausoleum with the chapel and the skeleton on 11 November 1936 on the Day of Truce in the First World War. The initiative and advocacy of the Serbian Culture Secretariat have raised funds to rebuild the cemetery. The works were carried out between September and October 1969 and an iron inscription was placed on the front gate – the Serbian Military Cemetery. The Serbian cemetery is a central part of the Zeitinlik complex. At its centre is the chapel beneath which is a skeleton where 5,580 Serb warriors were buried, injured on the Thessaloniki front. Around the mausoleum are 10 plots burying 1,448 Serb warriors. In addition, there are two common tombs, 78 unknown Serb warriors transferred from the Thessaloniki front, 217 unknown Serb prisoners, transferred from Carigrid. In 1938, Mausoleum was built on the island of Vidu, the monument of skeletons by the project of architect Nikola Kraskava, and the former island of the snake became known as "Serbian Jerusalem". In the mausoleum, the mention of the skeleton was buried in 1,232 Serbian soldiers, and there were 1,532 Serb soldiers in the lateral pyramids. On the island of Corfu in Gouvi, a memorial plate was placed in 1975 in memory of the landing of the Serb army that began on Christmas Eve in 2016 and lasted until 5 April 1916. The mention of the tablet is written in French, Greek and Serbian. It is believed that about 10,000 Serbian dead soldiers were buried in the Ionian Sea between the island of Vido and the island of Corf. As Serbian and foreign health workers died during and World War I, I call on my fellow Members and fellow MPs to vote in favour of this amendment in the day of voting, and the SNS parliamentary club will vote in favour of this bill in Dan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41020	Thank you, colleagues. (Sonja Pavlovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Sonja Pavlovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41021	Thank you. The chairman, Arsic, injured the Rules of Procedure, he left in the meantime, a member of the 108th session of the National Assembly, is being taken care of by the president of the National Assembly. How is it possible that the order does not respect the order of amendments they have submitted, so we had the first amendment of 144, which was explained by counterpart Laketic, to return to amendment 136 and any other amendments that go behind it to 144. Is this adapted to the presence of MPs who need to explain the amendments, which is really not correct? Let's say, when we explain the bill, you keep changing order and calling out colleagues who aren't present here. I want to point out the following. The order would be perfectly fine if respect were respected. It is extremely illegal to disrespect him because there are people here who work in certain working units, it is allowed by the Assembly and MPs are people who have their own companies and MPs, how do you think they are doing their parliamentary work properly if they cannot respect the order and know when they will come to explain their amendment or a bill? I'd like you to take care of the order in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41022	My colleague Pavlovic, I do not think that Mr. Arsic has violated the Rules of Procedure, a specific member that you have specified, because all amendments are sorted by unique methodological rules, and that determines the service, not Mr. Arsic. Mr. Arsic, as chairman, only in accordance with that order, gives the floor to the MPs. In this way, it does not prevent you from doing a responsible, serious and dedicated job for which you have taken responsibility. If you're willing and willing, you can certainly do the job that way. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Sonja Pavlovic: Yes. I thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41023	Mr. Chairman, member 103 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. It's the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The colleague who was just talking about it broke the part where the breach of the Rules of Procedure could be advertised as soon as it was done, but they won't read it. They always read things half way. The order of reading determines the composition of the amendments. So, the first amendments are read where a single member or attitude is asked to be deleted. You can wave the list all you want. That list is not mandatory at all. So there are rules on how to read the amendments. If the amendment is to, for example, Article 1(1), before it shall not be read the amendment to Article 2(1). But in Article 1(1), any one can be read. The other thing is that the law allows fellow MPs to do other work besides being MPs. But now I ask the question – if you were elected by the citizens, then that part of the work, while the tide is in the hall, you have no excuse not to be in the O.R., because I know, especially, that when the plenary days are up, MPs take confirmations from the secretariat and carry the employer to justify their absence, so take confirmation, and not come to the session or come only in the morning or at any time during the day. Those who seek that order want not to do their job as MPs. So in no part of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. No rule has been broken, but it's important to catch up with laptops, computers, lists, and think it's something we can cause problems in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41024	Thanks, buddy. I think you have also confirmed by pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure what I was talking about, which is a unique methodological approach and who defines this approach and what is the obligation and responsibility of us as chairman. I do not believe that I have violated the abovementioned Rules of Procedure, and it is up to me to ask you whether you would like the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Veloljub Arsic: No. I thank you. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dr Branimir Rancic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41025	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Mr. Djordjevic and his associate, respected Members of the People's Parliament, the early 20th century shows the full potential of Nis as a city and a vision of the development of the city and Serbia as a whole. All 12 years since Nis became a free city, in 1900 the first preventative medicine facility in the Balkans, the Royal Military Paster's Institute, the first animal lympharic collection office, was opened in the part of the Moravia Permanent Hospital Nis, on the initiative of Colonel Michael Mike Markovic, at the time of the Sanitary Department of the Ministry of Military Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The institute was named after the famous French microbiologist and chemist Louis Paster, who laid the foundation for immunology by improving the method of vaccination and finding a vaccine against rabies, which was applied in the penitentiary. So, even then, the importance of vaccines and vaccinations has been recognised, not as today, that we are told of this medical epidemiologically significant branch, under the name of the alleged, of realising stars, starlets, lobbyists doctors, unfortunately, and one part of the irresponsible opposition, which is an example of revolutionary consciousness, which does not matter the fate of the community, but through the authority and holding important social positions, this quasi elite is successfully reproduced in the governing and financial sense, and that is the only thing that matters to it. The biological reproduction of the people is obviously not. Just 15 years after Paris, 14 years after Moscow, Petrograd and Odessa and 10 years after New York, Chicago and Budapest, Nis received an identical medical facility. The courageous and enthusiastic move placed Serbia at the threshold of the 20th century with 80% of the illiterate population and an unstable political scene in the order of modern states, a major step towards the right development of health care and improvement of health conditions for treatment. Niški Paster's Institute became the first hygiene institute in Serbia, in the country, and in 1981, after revitalisation by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments Nis, became the Museum of Preventive Medicine. The building has been under the protection of the state since 1964 and today holds medical gatherings and conventions, such as the Days of Preventive Medicine with International Participation, which will be held for the 52nd time in September 2018 and will be announced at the convention and about the harmful functioning of the poored uranium, as well as data on the frequency of cancers in Serbia. It is also an invitation to the newly established committee in the National Assembly to attend the medical scientific meeting. That's why I urge the Resort Ministry, as well as the local self-government, to financially look at, of course, the project-based maintenance of this historic medical memorial. In voting day, I would ask all MPs to vote for this amendment of mine, especially MPs from the opposition, and doctors, if there are any in their ranks, because I think that my amendment is absolutely in the subject of the War Memorial Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41026	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41027	Thank you. I'm not going to talk extensively about the new War Memorial Bill, because that's what you, the Honorable Ministers, are talking about. I will only highlight the biggest newspaper of the War Memorial Bill, because the ministry's jurisdiction is now in charge of fostering the tradition of free wars and issuing consent to the construction of new war memorials. It is the obligation of all of us to preserve the memory of all those who gave their lives to defend our country. A system like this will bring about improving respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, traditions, as well as improving our country's tourist offer. War memorials are an important segment of Serbia's cultural heritage and will become part of a quality and attractive tourist offer. Tourism became the third economic branch in our country, right after chemical and energy. Our country also reached a large number of tourists in 2018. Tourism now falls within three export branches that generate the most income, which directly affects economic growth, and my amendment is related to the same. The year 2017 is great. This is the shortest and most beautiful description for last year, related to tourism, which has achieved a large profit and number of guests in our country. Also, 2018 is great. I just want to say in the end one good news that we heard yesterday about the opening of two important chapters for EU accession. All praises to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41028	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41029	Thank you, Your Honor. A people who don't appreciate their history and tradition have no future either. And that's exactly what this law is talking about. This is where I'm going to speak to the on-call critics yesterday who have criticised all the SNS amendments. There, and my amendment calls for economic sustainable development. Without economic and sustainable development, there will be neither us nor our country nor anyone to monitor, cherish and preserve these memorials. Right here, I'll tell you the story of a monument, of Milutin. Every city has its own mark. The town of Kraljevo has its mark, which is a monument in the city centre, in the square of Serb warriors, once called Miljojko, and probably in the 1980s, when Danko Popovic wrote that book about Milutin and our Miljujko got his name – Milutin. There was an idea long ago, after the Balkan wars in 1913, to build a monument in the center of the city of Kraljev. But unfortunately, the great war, the beginning of the great war, and by the end of it, he put off all these ideas and all those intentions. After the end of the Great War, in 1918, the vast majority of Serbia's cities marked their fallen warriors in some way, with a memorial board, whether they were obelisks or pyramids. Unfortunately, the city of Kraljevo and the city of Belgrade did the only thing they did not do. We slowly began to forget, as we all forget, we forget those Thessalonians who made the first Yugoslavia. Tried by the Association of Reserve Officers and Warriors of the City, then the Kingdom Municipality to do something, it requested from the municipal administration a location in the city center, but those who were war profiteers, who made a fortune during the war in 1914-1918, in every way tried to prevent the construction and setting up of a monument in the city center, because at that location there was a city market, which was making a huge profit because a large number of residents of the then Žički sred and the municipality of Kralje and the setting up of a monument would reduce the market, endanger their works. Then the naturals are two solutions. The first solution was at the church of St. Trinity, where another monument was set up after 1945, which unfortunately bothered someone for two thousand and a few years, so it was removed to the military post office of Jarchujak. It is about the famous tank, the first Partisan tank in World War II, or the location of the current square of King Peter the First, in front of the former barracks "Car Dušan", and now in front of the building "Lesnin". Unfortunately, none of this was carried out and only sometime in 1932, after the city of Belgrade erected the same monument to its warriors for Belgrade's defence in 1914-1918 and placed it on their skeleton in the New Cemetery, the president of the Association of Reserve Officers and Warriors of Serbia was a gentleman of the Kraljev family, a game of the case, a colonel, who provided the same casting that was done in Belgrade and conditioned by one condition - to be placed on the central city square. And that's exactly what it was done in 1932. Unfortunately, since there has never been any money in Serbia or in the Kingdom since donations, one part of the monument has been done from various associations to the end, or was not brought to the end by the intention it was meant to be. World War II has come. After World War II, reconstruction and construction were restored and all around the world until 1960, no one was doing anything on that monument. Someone comes to mind in 1960 that the monument is not where it is and moved it to the Military Cemetery in the King, where it has long been, for 22 years. Unfortunately, in 1962, he noticed to us all the famous Slobodan Penezic Krcun. When he came to the King, he asked Ludi, where is your monument from the center? And they answered him, "Well, you know what, President, he doesn't belong here, he's bothered with traffic. He looks at them and asks, "Well, does not the Square of Trafalgar bother anyone with Nelson's monument and go round about it, and the Little King is intruding?" In 1982, the son of the folk hero Živan Maricic, former mayor of the city of Kralje, Branko Maricic organised a referendum and in a referendum the citizens of the Kings declared that the monument was returned from the cemetery and set up where it is now. At that time, 35,000 Kingdom citizens volunteered to arrange the square and return the monument. And it's done. It's a monument. It wasn't fixed until the end, everything in the first idea that was imagined wasn't done until the end. To my great joy and happiness, this year the state, the Republic of Serbia will give three million, let's say four million dinars, the city of King's million dinars and end that monument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41030	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines the content of this bill. In view of our rich history and in respect of all those who have defended the homeland with their lives, but also those of other free nations who have participated in the struggles that were in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that this bill will in an adequate way help in one decision-making process to only set up the memorials, as well as to edit, maintain or remove the memorials. Kruševac, once the capital of Lazareva Serbia, is really rich, as far as the memorials are concerned, and enough to mention that even today in the central city square stands a monument for Kosovo heroes who remind us of our perilous people. For example, during the past period, the government has treated such memorials in a strange way. Mr. Chairman, I must point out that, unfortunately to some MPs, this assembly hall comes up something similar to a phone booth, so they come here, they wait for their card to say what they want and then they go away and I'm sorry they're not here to hear, because yesterday they had a lot of objections about how we use these amendments to abuse the work of the National Assembly because we're talking about some things that are being repaired in Serbia in the context of these memorials. Here's how she worked past power. We in Kraševec have one monument to the fallen Russian fighters, and it did not mind that the same monument was discovered by the previous government even twice. First, this monument was discovered on 14 October 2010 by one of the mayors of the DS on the Day of Liberation of the town of Kruševac when Russian attaché was also invited for the culture of Mr Konazhin. It did not bother the mayor's orders, also from DS, that only about seven months later, on the day of Victory over Fascism, the monument, i.e. As he said then, I am opening a monument. They may not have been able to open the factories, so they had to open, under signs, two times the same monument. Unfortunately, that's how the previous government did it, and unfortunately, this isn't the only memorial that reminds them of their work. We have the memorials, at least in Serbia, perhaps the largest in the world, those that spread over a few acres of surface, and these memorials that remind the last government look exactly like this or that we remind them of, maybe they prefer the image of what these memories in Serbia look like, not wartime, but they, we can call them, working memorials. The company did not fail in this case, so of the sad occasion, the setting of such memorials of the sad mayors there was obviously the saddest authority that could have hit Serbia. As the memorial means something that serves us to remember, and by doing so, this will be convincing, these abandoned factories, the largest economic memory centres in Serbia that remind hundreds of thousands of workers who have spent their lives in them and the authority that Serbian citizens pray never to hit again. It is precisely the task in which the SNS manages to reduce these economic memory centers as much as possible, and it is sufficient to remind those who have contributed to their creation of this kind of election result that they have destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41032	Thank you, colleague Manojlovich. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Radoslav Cokic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Vera Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41033	The Honored Chairman, Minister Djordjevic and his associate, the War Memorial Law addresses issues of importance for editing, fitting and financing them. No government in the previous period, I mean all of them by 2012, didn't think to pass a law like this. Not only did she not remember the law, she tried to forget important dates from the glorious past of our people. We do not need imaginary numbers of the victims in previous wars, as some countries in the environment do, we need names and last names of people who have in any way lost their lives in war events. This law provides for exactly that. The law will establish not only a place of death, but also a prominent place, such as the important historical battle of more victims in one place, the protection of the memorial, the regular maintenance, care and restoration of the so far. How little we know about the victims in all wars so far is the fact that the number of victims in the 1999 bombing, whether civilians, children, police officers or soldiers, has not been established so far. On October 5th, they were not interested in those who had suffered, but were interested in burning down the Assembly, stealing paintings and inventory, and this responsible authority passed a law that would correct others’ mistakes and successfully find even what was stolen and return to the Assembly, as we had the opportunity and to see the other day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41034	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41035	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, as one of our contemporaries would say - who doesn't remember is reliving. Serbia has not remembered for years and decades, but has turned its head and not enough to worry about the memories of the victims. An unregulated system, years of wandering between a culture of memory and a culture of oblivion, a constant conflict of jurisdiction between the local community and the Republic, an irresponsible approach to the characteristics of the victims in the past has led for decades to a complete devastion and destruction of memorial features. Serbia has not only become more economically and economically strong and stable by coming to power of the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, taking care of future generations, but has broken the practice of forgetting and started showing respect for victims, according to ancestors. It's the law I've submitted the amendment to that. The War Memorial law not only regulates the area of protection of war memorials, thus showing respect for victims and ancestors, but also improves Serbia's international position. The bill particularly regulates the protection of war memorials abroad, as well as the protection of war memorials of members of foreign armed forces in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law on war memorials that we are currently discussing further strengthens international co-operation with countries with which the Republic of Serbia has signed agreements and internationally ratified agreements, such as the Russian Federation, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and they will also form the basis for new negotiations and the conclusion of new agreements, but continue to improve international co-operation. Following the government programme of the Republic of Serbia and the city of Kraljevo has worked seriously over the past five years to restore the mark and raise awareness of the sacrifices that have fallen for our better and brighter future. Thanks to the redundancies from the King's City budget, the Republic of Serbia's budget and the recognition of significant projects by your ministry, Mr. Minister, and through the Royal Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, numerous war memorials have been restored, and only some of them are monuments dedicated to the victims in the First and Second World War, raised and restored to the Kingdom, Vitkovic, Ružića Brda, Konareva, Žići, Raški, Mataruška Banja, Preljina, Vrnjačka Banja, Gračac, Čačka and other cities in the vicinity of the Kings. In addition to these markings, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs has been restored abroad since 2015 and war memorials have been restored abroad by the Royal Institute for the Protection of Monuments and Culture and as one of the most significant skeletons have been dedicated to fighters in the First World War in Varadište, Republika Srpska, but also war memorials of members of foreign military forces in Serbia, such as monuments dedicated to the dead Redarmians in the Second World War in the village of Vrba near the Kings. What I have to point out, and what I'm particularly proud of is that the Republic of Serbia and the city of Kraljevo care not only about existing memories, but also raise new ones. In 2016, the Memorial of the Cross was erected on the anniversary of the death on Mount Cemeric near Kraljev, 101st anniversary of the death in the battle in Vranovac, which was one of the most important in the great war, which the Serbian army led to protect its resignation in its retreat to Krfu. This battle has been forgotten, and the bodies of nearly 2,000 dead soldiers, who have been scattered on this mountain without markings, skeletons and decent markings and due piety, and it is freely said that this battle saved Serbia. The construction of this memorial made only one initial step in the work of international co-operation between the City of Kralje and the Municipality of Berana in Montenegro as a reference to common victims. The draft law on war memorials, which is before us today, will, in a systematic and comprehensive way, resolve this matter and, to return to the beginning of my presentation, ensure that we remember in the future, that we do not forget, so that we do not relive. I must express my satisfaction that this is another in a series of activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS headed by President Aleksandr Vukic, which shows respect for the ancestors, while also caring for the future of descendants. My colleagues from the SNS and I will vote on this bill and other laws that are on the agenda, and I call on my fellow MPs to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41036	Thank you, colleagues. The First Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41037	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, yesterday we had the opportunity to listen to discussions of our fellow opposition, people who showed Serbs in the worst possible way during the past wars, and therefore I will not say a single word of my own, but I will only use this time to read a sermon held by the German priest and Protestant Friedrich Rizendorf in 1945, in his village of Evanburg, near Old Brick, just before his retirement, in a village where thousands of Serb prisoners were then held: “Our country lost the war. The English, the Americans and the Russians won. They may have had better material, more armies, better military leaders, but it's actually an extremely material victory. That victory was won by them, but there is one people among us who, among all the winners, have won one much more beautiful, second victory, victory of the soul, victory of the heart, victory of honesty, victory of peace and Christ's love of neighbor. That people are Serbs. We knew them only on the surface before, but we also knew what we had done in their homeland. We killed hundreds of Serbs defending the country for one of our murdered soldiers, who otherwise represented the authority of the occupation of the violent. Well, not only did we do it, but we were kind enough to watch Serbs shoot from all sides there, both Croats and Albanians and Italians and Hungarians and Bulgarians. We knew that there were 5,000 Serb officers here among us, who once represented the elite of society in their country, and now they look like living skeletons, laxatives and starving. We knew that there was a living faith in the Serbs, and whoever took vengeance, he was not consecrated, and we were afraid of the vengeance of those martyrs. We feared that after the capitulation of our land, they would do with us what we did with them. We imagined this drama alive, and already in our imagination we watched our children sail down the sewers or bake them in a town bakery, we imagined killing our people, raping our women, destroying and destroying our homes. But how was it? When the camp wires were torn and the 5,000 living Serb skeletons were scattered freely across our country, they caressed our children by giving them candy, calmly spoke to us. The Serbs, therefore, loved the children of those who blacked out their homeland. Only now do I understand why our great poet Gete was learning Serbian, now we understand why Bizmark's last word on his deathbed was Serbia. That victory is greater and higher than any material victory. Such a victory, I think, could have been won and won only by Serbs, raised in their world spirit and heroic songs, which our Gete loved so much. This victory will live for centuries in the souls of the Germans, and that victory to the Serbs who won it I wanted to dedicate this last priestly sermon of mine. “ If opposition colleagues do not have a single good word about Serbian struggles, about defending this country, about defending their home thresholds, there is someone who lived there far away, in other countries, who knew about Serbs to say the truth and the good word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41038	Thank you, Comrade Bagbitz. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41039	I have proposed an amendment where Article 1. The draft law after Article 1 adds a new position 2, which reads – War memorials have been used to preserve the historical memory of significant events and people who have contributed to the freedom and freedom of Serbia with their lives and victims, i.e. the state in which Serbia was composed. The amendment complements Article 1 by defining more precisely war memorials and their importance for the preservation of freedom traditions and memories of significant historical events and people who have fought for Serbia's freedom and territorial integrity over the centuries. Their merit is great and they deserve the respect of the state and the people. I think this law is very important, because throughout history, the Serbian people, and even the Yugoslav people, have never fought conquerive wars, but always the defence wars. It is important to know the truth, that for future generations we leave one true truth, where they will be able to get to know what happened on the right side, because lately through the media, especially electronic media, which young people most use, there are various lies about history, and there are also through books and through various magazines, and I don't think that what was done through history and the brave Serbian people, especially who gave the most victims in history, must know their history, because whoever doesn't know their history, will have a future either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41040	Thank you. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41041	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the War Memorial Act, the first such comprehensive law of the Serbian state in this area, has drawn great attention and I believe it will also attract great support when it is adopted. I say in this area, in an area where we haven't proven ourselves responsible enough for these memorials, because many others are abandoned, some even forgotten, undiscovered. We therefore give full support to the proposed law, with the confidence that we will have responsible and comprehensively investigated and recorded, marked and recorded memorials and places of death of our people both in the country and abroad. We also pointed out that it was very important to record all the dead, killed, so all the victims of the war. In Article 1 of this Law, the provisions of Article 1 of this Law, which more specifically define the concept of war memorial, we have also proposed the introduction of the concept of “civil victims of war, ” many of whom are innocent victims, and who deserve to receive a monumental mark because of their families, future generations and preservation of memories of the victim. Why did we suggest that? To remind you, the 20th century is otherwise the great loss of the Serbian population in various world and NATO wars and to remind you that Serbia has never been the conqueror, but has always been the target of the conquerors. The freshest thing I want to say a few words about it is the brutal aggression of NATO forces on our country in 1999. What makes me say that? For two reasons, the first is to be clear and accurate about it once. Don't look for the guilty among us, and that way we amnesty the one who committed the aggression. It's a brutal aggression on a small country, without any further comments. Serbia of course defended itself as much as it could, but it defended itself, it did not attack anyone. Why do I mention this example of the brutal aggression of NATO? With all due respect to the recognition of soldiers and police officers who have paid their lives to defend our country, our records, the markings deserve and the civilian victims of war. When I say that, I'm not just talking about sites, I'm talking about those who were innocents who got hurt because of the fact that at some point they were on a train, on the street, in a market, in a hospital, in a maternity ward, and I'm not counting any further. For NATO's aggressor who dropped three kilos of bombs on each of Serbia's inhabitants, they were people, children, women, but targets. For them, they were not men, children, women, for them were objects, for them were targets; for them it was collateral damage. For all these reasons, the deaths of these people, because in just one detail, more hospitals and homes of health than tanks have been destroyed, there are many victims of that war, and for these reasons we believe that they should receive due respect, a mark, for the sake of memory and memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41042	I thank my colleague Petronievich. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41043	Among the European peoples, the Serbian people are the most suffering in the 20th century, and we believe that in our capital in Serbia as our debt to all those who died in the country wars, Serbia would have to create a memorial centre. You know, Mr. Minister, that a group of Serbian academics led by Vasili Krestic launched the initiative through an association founded by the "Serbian Memorial" several years ago, and that would be necessary for the reason that there is no possibility that in the currently occupied Serbian territory we would raise a memorial for some of the hundreds of thousands of Serb victims killed in the 20th century. I will remind myself of an event, in 1992, a massacre against Serbian soldiers, and Mrs Gojkovic, on 21 June in the Miljevac field near Drnis, Ustasha, the Croatian occupation forces, although only a few days before, the Security Council Resolution took place to control the truce in the area, in her manner the Ustasha horde attacked the forces of Serbian territorialists and beastly killed 40 Serb soldiers. Not only are they not buried with dignity, but they have forced, these Ustasha villains, captured Serbs who had been captured before, to put you dead soldiers in the Karsk pit. How will we, and yesterday a colleague of Radeta and other colleagues, Serbian radicals have mentioned other cases in the last country wars in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, to honor these victims, Mr. Minister, when we do not have one such memorial centre? And before that, huge Serb victims and Balkan wars were not listed, especially in World War II, because so far there is no idea what the number of Serb victims of communist terror is after World War II. Of course, that was not feasible because we lived in this false state community with those who were just the leaders of these genocide ventures later than 1990 towards the Serbian people. That is why we believe that this would be a debt to them and that it would be known for their descendants and future generations that anyone who comes with good intentions to find the country bows down in one such place to the Serb victims who died through the country's and defence wars in the 20th century.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41044	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The title above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41045	The Serbian Radical Party is deeply convinced that such a proposal must not be the subject of ideological or party debates in the sense that we are making some dissension or that indifference on certain issues is causing a new division within the Serbian people. We are in some way disappointed with these arguments given by SNS MPs and are well-intentioned to make sure when they write an explanation for their amendments, because compared to these arguments that they have proposed, all those amendments that are made to delete, or to change the score and point, look like one serious scientific paper. What we wouldn't want in the next period is not to let down expectations and hopes all of us. We Serbian radicals sincerely hoped that the famous Chetnik Duke Tomislav Nikolic, at least as much as rehabilitated the anti-fascist movement of Draža Mihailovic, but there is no end to disappointment, we knew in part that he gave up that tradition, that he was not interested in it. Instead of mentioning the victims in the anti-fascist war, he raised himself a mausoleum in the form of a church. What we would not want to repeat in the future is that never hatred, exclusion, and intolerance prevails between us. We had an example, bravely killed Slobodan Milosevic was buried at his home because Dragan Đilas, Boris Tadic and others, because of the exclusiveness, intolerance, hatred, after all, and by order of foreigners did not allow him to be buried where things should be buried, and this is in the grandeur's alley because he marked an era. No matter what anyone thinks, we can be dissatisfied with the initiative to move, to raise the monument to Zoran Djindjic, we present our argument, but it is a matter of power and their thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41046	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41047	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, every living Serb has, should actually have certain obligations to war memorials. Someone to take care of them, someone to keep them, someone who can financially help build it, help it, someone to write about them, but we can all at least go around them, at least those who are available to us, at least those who are in places where we usually go. Six thousand war cemeterys, Serbian war cemeterys, scattered around the world, and of course we can't reach everyone and the question is how many people even know that a war cemetery, a Serb war cemetery exists, say in Tunisia, Bizerta, only in Algeria 18 cemeterys exist, but I hope we all know or should know about the Small Zeitinlik war cemetery, so they call the Sokolac cemetery, in flat Romania. There were 1,000 soldiers buried there who gave their lives for Republika Srpska and there was an entire part of the cemetery isolated where Serb individuals, the only ones of their parents who were not left behind. That cemetery deserves, at least whoever of us is going down the Straight Romania to stop by, to light a candle and bow down to them. They deserve it anyway. A soldier's cemetery exists, say, in Banja Luka. Also, unfortunately, the established cemetery when the war started and the war didn't even end, the cemetery was already filled with the graves of young soldiers, mostly young soldiers who also left their lives for Republika Srpska. In that cemetery, unfortunately Steve Radette's grave, my brother from my uncle, but also three other neighbors, each of them was 25 years old when they died. A kind of war memorial has also been written about Serbian victims. Let's say, Budo Simonovic, yesterday I spoke about the victims of World War II in my native Livn, Budo Simonović wrote a book "The Fired Maria Livanska", where the testimony of women, 14 of them, who with a total of 218 women and children were thrown into the Ravna pit near Donji Rujan in the Livan municipality, 42 days of them 14 were in the pit among their dead most born members of the family, without water, without food, God knows how they survived and survived. They were taken out of these pits, 14 of them, three of them alive today. One of them is still in Livn, two are in Surcino, and in Livn, Voja Radeta is my further aunt, 90 years old, still living with memories from that pit of Straight Do. So I'm saying that this book, Bude Simonovica, is a kind of war memorial, because it's hardly going to be in that cave or at that site of the Serbs, that someone will be able to, it's in the middle of Ustasha Livna, hardly anyone will be able to set up a memorial record, but that's why each of us can read a book in which it's all beautifully written. As in the other caves of Lebanon, karsk, I said yesterday, I simply have to repeat because of my ancestors, only 63 people from the Radet family were thrown into the caves, including my grandfather, Stevo Solun. In the village of Golinjevo, where my late grandmother Ruža was, 161 were victims. There's no one alive from the Serbs there. There they threw into the pits the smallest child, who had not had 40 days, and the oldest grandfather who was 98 years old and everything between what was. When they finished it, they said -- now we kill all cats and dogs, that nothing living Serbian in the village of Golinjevo remains, and there is nothing Serbian there today either. Among other things, he wrote in his scientific work Vojislav Seselj, in the scientific section "Roman Catholic, Crime Project of the Artistic Croatian Nation", and described the role played in the crimes, the Ustasha crimes in Livno, Fratra Sretko Perić. This Fratar had a sister who was married to a Croat. He invited Ustasha to Mass and to bless their knives and told them – first go kill, slaughter, my sister who is married to a Serb and after all the other Serbs. When you're done, come, I'll forgive your sins. And they did. They slaughtered all the grown Serbs, all the men, then organized the baptism of widows with little children. Some women agreed, but fortunately for a short time it lasted. When the Italians and Chetniks came there, then these women returned with their children to their faith again, from which they did not actually leave, but there they only had to go to the Catholic church. And yet I must say with pride, that my grandmother Rose with five children did not agree to it, she said, if you should kill all of mine, kill me and five of them, but I will not change my faith. What is the tragedy of this whole case, or especially of Happy Peric? Believe it or not, a war criminal like that, I don't know if he's still alive, but he ended up being mayor of his career in Niski County. So, the hair on his head wasn't missing, it's hardly gonna be a memory for these victims. Therefore, on behalf of all these victims, thank you to Vojislav Seselj for writing a Roman Catholic criminal project of an artificial Croatian nation. Well, people, read what you can't see and what you couldn't listen to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41048	Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41049	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I would really like to express my deepest confidence that there are topics in the Serbian people and states that should not be the subject of a conflict between the government and the opposition. So it is natural that a heated parliamentary debate is under way in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on various topics on which we disagree. However, there are, I would say, topics beyond our party, ideological and any other political differences that should define this nation in some way of unity. Here, I'd say, in this proposed War Memorial Act, it's exactly one of those topics that I don't really see how and why we should share here. So, I couldn't understand the conflicts here yesterday in this amendment's debate between the former and the current regime. I think we need that kind of thing about topics that really don't need to be different between us. You also know the approach of the Serbian Movement Group of MPs and each of the proposed laws that come here by the authorities. We always talk about what is good, point out and praise and support, and do not forget and vote for what we consider to be welcome as a proposal from the ruling majority. But don't mind us, I think it's our obligation, and we must criticise what we have seen is bad in the proposed laws. That's what we've just tried in all our amendments if you've read them carefully, even in this way, to point out in every way that this proposed law could be corrected. You could see that, and I hope that some of our amendments will be adopted, because they are really written in a constructive spirit. They repeat, therefore, what is good in what you predicted by this law. First of all, it's a good thing we have the final register of all war memorials in the country and abroad. It's a good thing you'll know exactly who needs to worry about it. It is also good, I hope, that this law will come into existence and that we will finally list all our victims in various country and defence wars in the past. Of course, it is good to go to what I think also exists here, no doubt a consensus, which is that this country finally makes one serious memorial centre of victims of genocide over the Serb people in the 20th century, which would be one big reminder, and also the opportunity for those who come to this country to visit such a memorial centre and see how many victims are actually suffered by members of the Serbian people in the 20th century, who have always been on the side of truth and justice. It's good, and you know we've supported it and we're taking part in it, and we're forming a commission to investigate NATO crimes. And, I mean, also, I would add all of this, which is good in this law, and otherwise, let me say, what the government did in the meantime, two or three more things. The first is what is being implemented in public these days that is hugely supportive of the idea of the Dvora we've been talking about for years as the only political option that seems to me to be openly advocated, which is the return of regular military service. To pay attention to both this and the declaration submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by Parliament's Daveri Group on genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in the Independent State of Croatia. It's just amazing that here, so many decades after all that, we can't in this House of the National Assembly adopt such a declaration of genocide that our people survived. Why am I telling you all this? Because I believe that the prevention of genocide, and there's a role in war memorials, is extremely important, that the prevention of genocide may be one of the most important points of state foreign and internal policy. So, in order to prevent any future genocide that anyone can plan over this people, we need to bring out the truth about Serbian suffering in the 20th century. One factor in carrying out this truth and cherishing that historical memory and memory is just war memorials. Now, I'd like to ask you a few questions in function, eating, improving this legal solution, some of which are foreseen by our amendment interventions, and some are simply suggestions and suggestions in the spirit of a constructive criticism. Remember, I will repeat the basic position of Serbia's Dveri movement -- we are not opposition to the state of Serbia, we are opposition to the SNS authorities and its coalition partners. So, all that's good for the state, it's good for Dvere, but what's bad for the state and what's bad for the current government, believe me, will always be criticised for us. What is there, in this bill? You have already heard this from our MPs and I will repeat - there are no camps and concentration camps that should be one of the basic elements of protection in war memorials. I just don't know why you missed it. Also, there is no constant criticism of you, a Serbian omen in legal solutions. So these aren't just, as you define them here, liberating traditions and wars, these are, above all, country and defence wars and Serbian military traditions. I don't see why the current government's legal solutions are constantly avoiding this sign of "Serbian", avoiding that national, so to speak, definition, and we've come to the point where "Serbian citizenship" is evicted from the passport as well. So I don't see why this tendency is present in the current government. And, what we're about to do next, you'll see, with the amendment proposal, we don't see why you've eliminated representatives of SPC, other traditional religious communities from the Council for the Breeding of the Tradition of Liberation Wars, or, say, scientific institutes or societies of historians. Also, I think the lack of this law is very pronounced, because it's not defined by the freeing, defensive and country wars in general when it comes to these war memorials. It's very important to define it correctly. And what I think is a major failure, there is no definition there in the section, or member, that defines what monuments are forbidden to raise in Serbia, there are no terrorists, as a very important category that should be prohibited from raising monuments in Serbia. In that sense, I'd like to ask you, you owe it to me from the principle debate, you weren't present at the time, how is one such building of monuments to occupiers and terrorists tolerated in Serbia? A colleague, Marija Janjušević, told you yesterday an example of the monument in Kanjiza. You all know the mention of the Achif-efendy in Novi Pazar. I cited an example of the monument to the wartime commanders of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, therefore, of the direct terrorists in Veliko Trnovac, in the municipality of Bujanovac. So it's all the opposite of this law and your proposals, and why does the current government tolerate such monuments to occupiers and terrorists? And what I would like to point out in particular is that there is one non-existent war memorial in Belgrade that you would have to pay attention to because this government of the Republic of Serbia owes an answer to Serbian citizens, and that is the question – where is the grave of Draža Mihajlovic's General in Belgrade? So, General Draža Mihajlovic, let's not forget, is the first uprising in occupied Europe under fascism and under his command the first cities in Europe are occupied under fascism. Is it possible that, in the spirit of this equalisation of the two anti-fascist resistance movements in Serbia, Partizan and Equality, we were still not able as a state to discover the grave site of General Draža Mihajlovic and to mark that, too, Mr. Minister, as the war memorial of the first species. Why? Because General Draža Mihajlovic and the Montenegrin movement were a symbol of anti-fascist resistance throughout the democratic world. Because General Draj Mihajlovic was celebrated by our so-called Western allies who later turned their backs on him and handed him over to the communist regime's mercy and impassion, though he was the first uprising in occupied Europe under fascism. We owe the discovery of the grave site of General Draža Mihajlovic and I owe it to be a first-rate war memorial in this country, because it hides, in fact, the truth about someone with whom this country can absolutely be proud because it was one who did not recognise capitulation and one who raised the first uprising in occupied Europe under fascism. On the other hand, I would like to point out that you would have had that in mind, I am begging you and I am begging you in this direction, will these war memorials abroad include all the victims and all the war strategists and all the camps and all the others experienced by Serbs in the country wars from 1991 to 1999 at the premises of the former Yugoslavia in the former Yugoslav republics, where and how they died in the practically third attempt of genocide in the 20th century against the Serbian people? So, all that was happening to Serbs in Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, should be treated as war memorials, because there Serbs defended their centuries-old hearths, their families and prevented triple genocide from happening to them in the 20th century? This is very important to me to answer for another reason, because I personally believe that these avionic borders, which were later shared by the Yugoslav republics, are newly formed, and not existing until then, are actually borders set by a terrorist organisation called the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. I can't, therefore, the boundaries set by a terrorist organization to be state borders. There I would only separate two very important things, one communists as terrorists who used civil war and a struggle for liberation for coming to power, and the other Serbs who participated in Partizan units and fought for the release of their country, should be given a lot of recognition, every kind of monument and satisfaction as an anti-fascist resistance movement, but on the other hand abolish every monumental tradition and every respect for communist terrorists who came here to power by killing tens of thousands of Serbs, hosts, patriots, monarchs and anti-communists. So, it is very important that we know in this sense whether war memorials will finally break up with this communist history and tradition and separate communist terrorists, revolutionaries who have killed to come to power, and that communist tyranny will be ridden here, from Partisans and true Serb communists who themselves have suffered from the Communist Party of Yugoslavia because they have had some Serbian feeling and because they have defended some Serbian national interest in all this. It is asked as a fundamental question, why only Serbs were imposed on communism that was contrary to the national interests of the Serb people. Why only two provinces were made in Serbia and not in any other former Yugoslav republic so that Serbia could break further into pieces. So in order to correct all of this, we must also function in this law and war memorials to break up with a negative communist tradition that is actually occupatory here and that has replaced one occupation of Germany with communist revolutionary power and a new communist occupation. And, on the other hand, a Partizan resistance movement involving many Serbs across the former Yugoslavia because they fought fairly to free their country and should be given full recognition and satisfaction. They had no intention of killing other Serbs but to free their then occupied homeland. So that would be some important questions to which I ask your answer and I think I was absolutely in a constructive spirit to point both to the good and the bad side of the proposed legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41050	Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41051	Replica, because the SNS was mentioned. I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Since Mr. Bosko Obradovic asked for some explanations, here, I will try these two minutes to give them to him. A memorial to the terrorists he was talking about just knocked down SNS power with the help of the gendarmes. As for the existence of two anti-fascist movements, and since I see that in your case, there is no doubt that in Serbia and that the Serb people in World War II had two anti-fascist movements, but your movement is not a follower of either, nor of the other, but of a third. You are ideological followers of the Movement of the Assembly, i.e. the Ljotics. Before World War II, the movement "The Assembly" was called the Yugoslav People's Movement "The Assembly". They only became Serbs when the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was occupied. Then they remembered they were Serbs. Ljotic's wife was Croatian, Ivka, from the town of Bakar near Sibenik. It's not that important, but I want to tell you that they're not as many Serbs as they are today, but what's worst of all, Mr. Bosko Obradovic is a follower of movement, a few movement, which, unfortunately, has left a mark on the Serbian people in World War II. The Serbs were dominantly members of two anti-fascist movements, but there was a small group serving the Germans. Mr. Bosko Obradovic is a follower, among other things, Marisava Petrovic, commander of the Fifth Voluntary Squad, etc. The Serbian Voluntary Corps. In 1941, Marisav Petrovic, when there was mass shooting in Kragujevac, led Serbian children, Serbian youth, citizens of Kragujevac, Germans in front of firing machines. I don't know what Bosko Obradovic has to do with General Draž Mihailovic, or the Raknog Movement, or the Partizan movement? He wrote for "New Iskra". The "New Iskra" was read by Ljotics. So, neither Dražino nor Partisan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41052	Thank you. You're way out of time. National MP Bosko Obradović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41053	Thank you, Chairman. Here, if Mr. Martinovic had to answer instead of the minister, he did not answer any questions, so I hope the minister will do well to answer the questions asked. As for Mr Martinovic's presentation, Serbia's Dvora Movement at the time when he was publishing the magazine "The Court of Serbian", published his special theme, the number of "The Court of Serbian" magazines dedicated to General Draža Mihailovic as the first uprising in occupied Europe. Also, he did at that time, about 70 years after General Draž Mihailovic's martyred death, a large National Academy in the House of Trade Unions in Belgrade, and a number of other activities that we are actually marking this anti-fascist tradition of the Serb people, because the Serbian Movement Dveri, precisely the heritage there and such anti-fascist tradition of the Serb people. In that sense, those who claim something different and who are giggling with some kind of patriotic feathers, which are in power, could finally answer the question why have they not yet discovered the grave of General Draža Mihailovic? Here, when you're all such great Chetniks, when you're such great patriots, when you're such a big Serbiaer, you SNS, why don't you do this God-awful act and finally bury General Draž Mihailovic with dignity and discover his grave place? What's been stopping you for six years? You have BIA, you have all the archives, you know everything, and you can find out in one day, but you don't. So you're still the hostages of communist history and heirs to not only that communist view of things, but here's the consequences of this communism. If you are already great patriots and Chetniks, prove it, discover the final grave of General Draža Mihailovic. What's stopping you? What excuse is that? Is Bosko Obradovic stopping you? Are the Dvors stopping you? You won't do it, and you can. You've been in power for six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41054	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, World War II ended in 1945. No more Chetniks, no more partisans. I'm just saying that in 1999, when you wrote, and we read it here several times, for "New Spark", you didn't call Draž Mihajlovic a great teacher, but Dmitry Ljotic. You said, under the influence of Dimitri Ljotic, that the greatest damage in spiritual and cultural terms was done to the Serbian people by Vuk Karadzic and Dositej Obradovic. I really don't know, and I'd like to know where Draža Mihajlovic was buried, but I'm surprised you didn't ask that question in 2004, 2005 and 2006, when various commissions were formed to investigate the crimes that took place in Serbia. You didn't care about that at the time. You were the Duke of Kolubara then. You received money from the "Colubare", from the DSS and from Kostunica in 2004, 2005 and 2006. When the yellows took over, you became the duke of the diaspora, so you were financed by the yellows through the Ministry of Diaspora. Why didn't you ask them where Draža Mihajlovic's grave was? You are essentially not interested in it today, but you are trying to wear Dražina's coat through that Ljotic suit, so that no one in Serbia realizes that you are actually followers of a small group of people, who served the Germans in World War II. Your friends are Bulgarian fascists. Your friends are the ones who put monuments on Bleiburg and, worst of all, you brought them here to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41056	The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41057	Thank you. First, I would like to draw your attention that Serbia has 6,000 memorials, which in the country, which abroad. There are 625 listed abroad so far. Our desire with this law is primarily, among other things, and one of the most important things is, as you said, records not only of the dead, but of our memorials, so that we can pay attention to all the memorials and, on the other hand, to keep them in the best condition possible, so that all the memories we have of our own and the dead citizens of Serbia can show all the citizens and, as you said, draw attention to the death of our people through history not only in the 20th century, but also before. The first in a series of laws that go and that we expect in the second half of the year to be before you is the Law on the Old Fair. It is the first in a series of major memory-building projects here in Belgrade. Then, the renovation of Belgrade Liberation Cemetery, which is due to receive a completely different look and a Cera Memorial centre. This law, which is before you, primarily wants to put in clear rules who can, when they can, under what conditions, with which explanation and how a memorial will be maintained in the future that will be built, so that we do not come into a situation to raise memories without knowing anyone, nor that we come into a situation to raise those who are not allowed to. Article 22 just defines it to whom and under what circumstances cannot raise a memorial and very clearly and precisely define it. When it comes to camps and concentration camps, we saw that in Article 2 paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 we define precisely and by the broader concept of concentration camps, we define that they are also covered, so we haven't forgotten about them. The only thing we haven't clearly figured out is that with a broader idea we wanted to cover all the places where Serbian citizens, or Serbs, died here and abroad. So, one last thing about the Council. Since the Council should reach a consensus on something, of course, there would always be space to say that someone is missing, but if they put someone on, there would always be some dissatisfied side that would want to add someone else. If the Council were to be bulky, I don't think they could work effectively, quickly, and in some things we react spotily. I think that's supposed to be... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41058	Thank you, Minister. Time. Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41059	Thank you, Chairman. It's very important to me that I can explain my position. As regards Dimitri LJotic, as a young student, I was involved in researching inter-war literature and graduated from the esteemed professor Dr. Novice Petkovic at the Faculty of Philology, investigating inter-war literary criticism and conflicts between the literary left and the literary right, including Dimitri LJotic. I very much respect his Christian view of politics, but I absolutely disagree with his Judaism and his collaboration during World War II, just to clarify my position on this matter. But the other thing is more important. The Dvors also dealt with the topic that in 20 years of the existence of the Dvora, we, among other things, published the themes of the Serbian Court and General Draža Mihajlovic but also of the communist crimes, and then of the monarchy as the principle of government and the advantages of the monarchic arrangement of the state in relation to the republican, etc. So many serious topics were dealt with and talked about by the Dvori at a time when hardly anyone talked about them. I would also remind you of a historical detail that you have neglected, that the Serbian national forces and the Second World War were united after the withdrawal from Serbia, which was then occupied under communism in Slovenia, and that personally was the General Draža Mihajlovic and mentioned Dmitry Ljotic, formed common anti-communist units in Slovenia, which had withdrawn from Serbia and you can read it in any more serious historical textbook and see that Serbian nationalists were able to overcome their differences when it came to protecting the country from the overcoming communist dangers and conquests, therefore, Serbia by communism. However, you still haven't answered that very simple question – where is Dražin's grave and why for six years, although you've been in power, you won't discover it because World War II is not over, if communist criminals, like Josip Broz Tito, continue to be celebrated, and the grave site of the first uprising against fascism in Europe is not known to be Draža Mihajlovic's General?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41060	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Please move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read if I have to read another hundred times what Bosko Obradovic wrote about Ljotic's movement "The Assembly". So Dimitrije LJotic – “The Assembly”. What are the values of "The Assembly", says Bosko Obradovic, who is a heritage - nationalism, religion, spiritual values, organic spirit, monarchism, national culture, against party democracy. So, against party democracy, abolishing parliamentaryism, progeny, etc. He is the successor of the saying "The Parliament", "The Ornas", "The White Eagles", etc. And he says -- these are youth circles that give us young people strong ideological food. So, you're a follower of the Parliament, but what terrifies me with you, that's your disastrous historical ignorance. He says – Draža and Ljotic have joined together in Slovenia against the communists. Mr. Obradovic, Draža Mihajlovic did not see Slovenia during World War II. He was a man in Bosnia, and Dimitrije LJotic went to Slovenia and died in a car accident at Ilinska Bistrica in April 1945. What kind of merger are you talking about between Draža and Ljotic? He preferred the whole time of the war and fought against those who served the Germans. There are hundreds and hundreds of reports of Draža Mihajlovic, the government in London. Read some of those archives.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41062	Thank you. We're going to move on to the next amendment, I think we've had enough history class in this article. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41063	I thank the president. First of all, I join all those who praise the proposal that the government come out with such a law because it really missed our legislation. However, I also agree that in this law there should be one member that refers to the memorial of all Serbian victims both in Serbia and out of Serbia. I think the Serbian people deserve it, given the huge sacrifices they made during all the Liberation Wars. When it comes to Article 2, first of all, I don't know if it's a military or military cemetery, is that a language question? We should consult. Secondly, whether a memorial church should put in a memorial tap, from the Cukur Cesma to the numerous skulls of the dead all over Serbia, and in particular I cannot agree with the explanation, and yesterday in the break I spoke to the minister, that there are no words in item 2 - camp. It cannot be observed in other areas, or given the relevant historical significance of the concept of the camp, from Simisto, via Jasenovac, to the Soviets, or to Norway. I think we really need to be all unique on this point, and I think that the ministry should make an effort to put this concept into place, unless a ban is received from those countries that had camps, concentrational ones, that Serbia, as a future EU member, should ever become one, should not enter the term "logor". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41064	Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41065	Thank you, Chairman. I would absolutely support the amendment proposed by distinguished Professor Miladin Ševarlic and especially what he drew your attention to, Mr. Minister, and that is that there is no reason why there are no camps or concentration camps in the lists of war memorials. You can turn it into whatever form you want, that's impossible to explain because there's no record of war memorials. These are actually strategic key places that need to be the subject of historical memory and memory. Also, I would draw you away from this opportunity just one more thing of your attention, which is that war memorials actually remind us of the greats of our people who were willing to give their lives so that we could live in freedom today. You forget that these greats still exist among us today, thank God, alive and healthy, those who survived those wars, I mean these most recent homeland wars in 1991 until 1995, or 1999, and that these are war veterans you simply don't care enough about. I will remind you that war veterans have scheduled a major protest for Vidovdan in Belgrade on Thursday and that it would be your turn to finally receive them and finally respond to their numerous demands, not just to meet with wartime veterans' associations that you yourself have formed and represent your party stations. So there are war veterans who are not members of the SNS and it would be very important that you sometimes receive them and hear their torments and their problems. This is the only country in the former Yugoslav republics that took part in a civil war that has no Law on War Veterans, has not paid off their daily lives and has not properly solved the problem of all these people who are looming in various existential problems today. In order not to start a hunger strike Thursday, as they announced that they would end their justified protests both here in front of the Serbian Parliament and in front of the Serbian Presidency, I ask you, Mr. Minister, to act, to invite them as many today or tomorrow for talks, to finally receive and listen to them, and not to let people who were willing to give their lives for this country so that we today live in freedom and in peace, protest, strike hunger, and question their health because one minister, who did not know how much he was in war operations and how much he was on the front, the minister was either military or now the minister in charge of combat issues, wants to accept them at all. So, please, this is an alarming question, a major protest is being announced in Belgrade on Vidovdan, war veterans from all parts of Serbia are expected to arrive. You have a chance to receive them today and tomorrow and to prevent their start of hunger strike Thursday.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41066	The second amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Ambassador, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41067	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2, where the amendments remain fully reasoned, with a proposal to be adopted. What I would just like to say briefly is that I do not repeat the views of the MPs of the SRS, because I fully support them and I think they contribute and can only improve the text of this bill, so they should be appreciated both in this sense and respected. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking Mr. Minister a question. Mr. Minister, is there any initiative in the government to raise the monument to Slobodan Milosevic in Belgrade? Free Milosevic, as a hero in a war that was imposed by the illegal bombing of 19 of the most powerful forces in the world of this country, opposed enemies, deserves in any case a monument in the middle of Belgrade and is buried in the Alley of the Giants. This deserves a president who was delivered on Vidovdan in 2001 by a traitorous DOS regime so-called "bloody hands". The criminal tribunal of The Hague, where he was practically killed. Also, I ask Mr. Minister – will Belgrade have a street called Draža Mihailovic's General? Another question – when will the construction of the old fairroom memorial site end, with about 50,000 prisoners going through, because in that part you can only see the watchtower of fascist guards guarding those 50,000 captured campers? As far as the law goes, he should have been brought before. In any case, bear in mind that the DOS regime has not erected a single monument to those who would deserve it in this country at all times while they ruled. We expect that the current government will take into account the consideration of these proposals that followed by the MPs of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41068	Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41069	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already listened to the fine stories of representatives of the ruling coalition according to the amendments to the War Memorial Act. We've heard about how you've separated some million for those monuments, which is good. We can discuss whether it can be better, but in my opinion, that's not the point. We need you to answer some more difficult questions today. Because the way memory will be kept for all those who have given their lives and all those who have shed blood for both Serbia and to protect the Serbian people and to free the territory of the Serb people for centuries is something more important. So let's see what the state's relationship with Serbian territories will be like, let's hear why you forgot the Republic of Serbia's Krajina, let's hear what happened to those who spilled blood to protect the Serb people in that territory. And how is it possible that you claim that we have wonderful and idyllic relations with Croatia, and that this same Croatia has driven hundreds of thousands of Serbs from their centuries-old hearths, that it has killed thousands of people, and that you not only mention them? Of course, it is also unnecessary to talk about any monuments to those victims. And what is at this point a question of all questions, which is – what will happen to Kosovo and Metohija? Is there any point in celebrating heroes, celebrating those who in the last centuries gave their lives to free or defend Kosovo and Metohija, if we will, through shameful Brussels negotiations in some form, hand over to our eternal enemies in those areas, and these are the scepters, hand over this Serbian territory? Then shall we tear down the monuments? Do monuments make sense if we give up Kosovo and Metohija? It's not a pretty monument, it's about these people. The point is also in relation to the state. The point is that today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is still the person who said -- Kosovo was Serbia. The fact that someone says -- Kosovo, instead of Kosovo and Metohija, which is consistent with the Constitution and what is something that bothers our enemies, because that name Kosovo and Metohija reminds us of what essential and historical Kosovo and Metohija are, therefore, can monuments be discussed in such a situation, while we are at the same time giving up essentials, which is Kosovo and Metohija? No one has the right under any excuse, whether it's a better life for people, whether it's an EU entry, to give up everything that the generations of the Serbian people have bled for. Don't tell us about the monuments, whether it's a million or two. This is as important as fountains, if you dare give up Kosovo and Metohija. No one has a mandate for such a thing, no president, no minister, no Serb, can say such a thing. Therefore, you take care first of what generations will remember, because it is not essential, once again, how much you will separate for a monument, but whether you will really preserve what generations of the Serb people have fought and died and left behind in the amannet generations to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41070	Thank you. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament of Vesna Ivkovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41071	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with an associate, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, in Article 1(2), paragraph 1), the word "traditions" is replaced by "tradition". The amendment takes place in fact in a legal-technical order. This article accurately defines individual terms and meanings, which are not bindingly established in another regulation. It's mostly about expressions that are essentially related to the matter that is subject to this law. This law regulates the protection of cultural and historical goods and is in accordance with the Constitution. This area shall be regulated in a comprehensive manner and shall be united by applicable rules in this area. A very important benefit of the law will be a unique record of all war memorials in the Republic of Serbia, Serbian war memorials abroad, as well as war memorials of members of foreign armed forces in the Republic of Serbia that will be kept permanently. More importantly, there will be records of the dead, starting with the First Balkan War. The proposal for this law is the result of the need to pass a new law that would unequivocally define competences and overcome outdated solutions, harmonize the terminology and regulate this area in accordance with the principles of modern civil society, with respect for human rights. This law has made great efforts by the competent ministry to compensate for what has been missed for years and to provide adequate protection to institutions and organisations dealing with the preservation of cultural heritage from war periods. By editing and maintaining war memorials, we cultivate a tradition for future generations, because beside language, letters, history, customs and immovable cultural heritage represents the identity of every nation. The freedom tradition of the Serbian people is expensively paid for by the lives of our citizens. The freed tradition of Serbian people in many stands across Serbia is referred to by Prof. Dr. Predrag Markovic, deputy president of the SPS, who conveys his selfless knowledge to younger generations. Respect for tradition is a fine thread that binds us to the past, but which makes both our present and legacy for the future. Tradition is one reminder that we have our own place in order of things, i.e. that we have the identity of a nation. In a constant race after time and profit, which most of mankind today is being slaved, in an era of globalisation that undoes many of the specificities of peoples and countries, we must preserve our identity for future generations that are coming, and we will do so through the preservation, maintenance and arrangement of war memorials that talk about the rich historical past of the Serbian people and its liberating and never conquerive wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41072	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41073	Thank you. With all due respect to our tradition, we've heard a lot of patriotic points here that threatens tradition and devalues. However, he is missitting, speaking, the legislator has had the same treatment for all of us, and one single answer to all of our amendments, whether they have set up opposition or position, reads: “The amendment is rejected. The draft law was drawn up in accordance with the methodology for making the rules. The provision is clear, precise, defined and does not require further clarification. The amendment does not affect the essence of the matter governed by the bill. “ So each amendment got the same answer, so I doubt that these amendments were even read. So, I doubt it, I didn't say it was true, and if it wasn't read it really offends me, and it should be all the other colleagues here, especially when it comes to this sensitive matter. We really think that we have made a constructive proposal regarding this Article 2 and that some necessary changes should be made there. So we didn't delete it, we didn't deny it, but we think it was necessary to introduce some necessary changes. For example, what does “the place of destruction ” mean? In the definition of "sacrifice" it is a place and a wider spatial continent. We believe that this should be its immediate environment, because the wider spatial continent is not defined space. So this can cause various abuses, let's say, when memory centers are about reaching a much larger area than is necessary, to protect some cottages, as we already know it happens in national parks where the most common memory centers are, and we really don't think that this should happen. We therefore believe that a sublegal act should be adopted as soon as possible, which would clearly define the site of death, that is, that spatial continent that is located right next to the site of destruction. In addition, we had objections to point 6) where we believe that, apart from all that is stated as protection of war memorials, it should be pointed out that there should be no renaissance. So, no renaming of any object that is a war memorial, because a war memorial doesn't have to be just a sculptureal work, a war memorial doesn't have to be a record, a war memorial can also be a building heirloom, and for that reason we don't think that it should come to terms with it and that it should be clearly highlighted in the law. Also, point 7 of this Article only states that military memorials and memorial centres require orderly maintenance of access routes. It's a very narrow thing. So we have to maintain absolutely this entire space, internal traffic infrastructure, communal infrastructure, because war memorials are sometimes the mention of the tap, the elements of general and ambience lighting and all other objects within the fenced complex. Here is the question – who will actually care, or manage with these centers, or objects? Who's gonna take care of them? Everything can be defined, anything can be done, but unless it's properly managed with these objects, we have a big problem and it will go back into oblivion, as well as many war memorials from the previous issue. So there's a whole series of questions that should be dealt with by sublaw. I'm interested in why this procedure is referred to as the competent authority, which gives the appropriate permits... I understand why the Department of Civil Engineering is bringing licenses to the difolt. I don't know why the Ministry of Energy is specifically singled out in this law, as an extra? Why is it not the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Forestry, because war centres and memorials are most often found in these areas. If I could get answers to those questions, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41074	Thank you. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41075	Thank you. After the First World War in Serbia, "crates" spread. These individual memories of dead relatives and friends represent the strongest relationship with the sufferers and the first more powerful vision of war events from the very history itself. The local tradition makes up the second degree of memory and includes building monuments and keeping memories of fallen fighters. The Communists have built a cult of warriors, though a Partisan warrior. The celebrations, the academys, the jubilee, the anniversary were held regularly. She was becoming a strong fighter organization. Throughout Yugoslavia, there was a mention of the markings, the bust of warriors, schools and streets with the names of the dead warriors and heroes. She was nursing the so-called so-called. memory culture. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the bill on war memorials of law is a unique opportunity for us to say more about war memorials in the world, or abroad. Here I'm going to tell you about a mention of the chapel of the University of Ohrid skeleton. There are 400 Serb refugees buried near Biljana's sources in Ohrid. These were boys between the ages of 15 and 20 who fled from the Bulgarian occupation in 1915. On the border belt near St. Naum, they were captured by comet squad members and shot. During World War II, Bulgarian occupiers mined and destroyed the monument. It remains only the lower part of the monument containing the remains of Serbian youngsters. That's why we need the records of Serbian war memorials as our debt to all the victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41076	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41077	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, repeatedly during the debate, the MPs of the SRS pointed out that the War Memorial Act is necessary, but not in the way this Pedlog Law offers, and this area of this Pedlog Law is not properly arranged. We also pointed out that it is our duty to protect all Serbian victims from oblivion and that our relationship with war memorials reflects our relationship with all the victims of the Serb people. I would remind you of one of the many unpunished crimes against Serbs in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. In Stara Gacka, near Lipian, 14 innocent Serbs were massacred in July 1999. Members of the Cypriot terrorist KLA then killed 14 innocent farmers, 14 innocent Serbian peasants who went out to reap grain. In memory of the victims of this crime at the school in Stara Gacka, a memorial of the records with the names of all the dead were placed next to them, including verses that send a clear message and say: “In my field, a joyful harvest song is no longer heard, and it is up to me to bear witness and remember, the evil that I have never forgotten. ” However, the Ship's terrorists have also destroyed the victims' gravestones, but also this monument. We must not forget these 14 innocent Serbian peasants. It is our obligation to protect all Serbian victims from oblivion and to express our gratitude to all those who have given their lives for our freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41078	Thank you. The second amendment was submitted by Mirjana Dragaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, gentlemen, when we talk about the War Memorial Bill, I would once again like to point out that we believe that it is of great importance that it is brought at this time, to point out that it is the first law that makes the state of Serbia and that it is very responsible in this regard. The fact is that even a list of war memorials, as well as all casualties during this last century in the Republic of Serbia, cannot be made in Serbia for a short time, nor is it an easy job. With all this in mind, we fully support all the efforts that both professional services and the world and the public and experts will have in the coming period, simply so that this can be achieved. It is important to point out this time that it is indeed a persistent, long and persistent path that will truly achieve the ultimate goal, not just to be a good intention. The great work will surely run the profession, but when it comes to memorials, it is important, on the one hand, that they be dedicated to soldiers and heroes who have defended themselves and the right to life in defense wars. This amendment I have submitted concerns the emphasis of all civilian war victims that have taken place in these conflicts. There was a huge loss of the people, we saw in World War II that there were camps, pits, etc. places where lives and various places of suffering were destroyed that I just don't know and can we write down. But in modern times, when NATO waged war against the Serb people, under the cynical name "Blessed Angel", he led it as a video game. Unfortunately, trains and buses, bridges and markets, houses and hospitals were also killed. In them were people, people who were legitimate targets for them, who unfortunately called a cynic name -- collateral damage, because for them they weren't human lives. We see from all this that all this time freedom for the Serbian people was expensive. I would also ask and suggest that the story ceases whether partisans or Chetniks, it's the same story as whether it's socialism or capitalism. Let the people say when it is better, and we are most important together to stay on the right path to recovery and strengthening Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41080	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, six thousand memorials, it's a lot, it's a lot for one people and that's not all. Given this fact, I don't think it's moral, but even better said, brazen and rude of some MPs to ask a question – how many wars have we lost in the 1990s and how many have we won? If we have waged defensive wars, there is no question of how many we have lost or won, but whether we are ready to defend our country or not. The Kosovo Testament could be applied – it is not the question – what is the power, but what is the sanctity that we defend. Here among you there are my colleagues with whom we shared an opinion perhaps ten years ago and the town of Loznica is the first freed city in occupied Europe. He was released on August 31st 1941, and for two decades now there have been SRS with top officials, and at that time and state, you would have participated in the appointment of Remembrance to Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misiti, where our coalition partners prevented it from ending. But it exists. There's one mention of a record on the so-called so-called. The Adriatic House in Loznica, set up by the Association of descendants and war participants, has not accepted the date in the official town of Loznica in the best way – the release of the town of Loznica, i.e. the day of Loznica, is celebrated and marked on 16 June. That's the day the Loznica town got the status of the town. We Serbian radicals think it would be far better if because it can be considered, I think historians say that the start of World War II could be taken on August 31st 1941. The town of Loznica is a beautiful city, and I think in cultural, economic, touristic terms, it would contribute greatly to the development of the city and I would say to the middle Podrinj in general. Try to get this problem that we're running for, to tell my colleagues on my right, to solve it. Surely this is what the victims of not only World War II deserve, but all the wars in which Serbs participated as obliged to defend and protect their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41082	The Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41083	The major problem with war memorials will certainly be in occupied Serbian territories, specifically in Republika Srpska. There are many places there to be marked as memorials, but unfortunately the Ustasha Croatian state does not want to be a co-worker in the business of the state of Serbia. Instead, they extend the list of Serbs caught at the border if they cross to Croatia and each time have a new alleged war criminal. Today, MP Alexander Seselj tried to talk about it, address Plenkovic and told him in the Council of Europe that he understood, Alexander Seselj understood that the purpose of the Council of Europe was to promote democracy, human rights, respect for the law and anti-fascism. And today we have, he said, in front of him, thinking of Plenkovic, who celebrates Jasenovac, a concentration camp for 700,000 Serbs, Jews and Roma, who celebrates Bleiburg, the leader of the neo-Nazi regime in the heart of Europe, in which Serbs are second-class citizens, the president of a political party whose main ideology is ethnic cleansing. The leadership of the Council of Europe should be ashamed. Instead of being ashamed of the leadership of the Council of Europe, Alexander Seselj was interrupted in a further presentation, but they allowed Plenkovic to say that the apple does not fall far from the tree, that the party's representative, referring to the SRS, is favouring large Serbia, which will cover the territory of other countries. Then he says -- the president of the party and his father is a convicted war criminal and Serbia, according to Plenkovic, and you, Mrs Gojkovic, were not in the O.R. yesterday. The same was said by the representatives of the new domain, so they say – Serbia has committed aggression against Croatia, but before that, Bosnia, Slovenia and Kosovo and is responsible for all war conflicts. So in the Council of Europe, Plenkovic can say something like this, and the representative of our National Assembly, our colleague was interrupted only because he presented the truth about the Croatian Ustasha regime and, of course, called for the leadership of the Council of Europe. He said they should be ashamed, and certainly should take appropriate measures when it comes to increasingly lush blooming in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41084	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41085	I thank the president. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill on war memorials. As noted in my previous amendment, it is not enough just to pass the law and to think that this is how we solved the problem. Cultivating Serbian war traditions is a lasting process that must have adequate representation in our education system. Unfortunately, today we have a situation where many of our students and students know nothing about celebrities from our history who have fought, and many of them have given their lives for our country. Not to mention the sites outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and not only that, the fact is that Serbs are the people most injured in the 20th century and we do not yet have a museum of Serb victims. What's worse, we quickly forget our victims and show no respect. We know that many of our fighters from the Balkan wars have become severely disabled without being taken care of by their countries, so many have come to the beggar stick. It is the same case, and today we have a large number of our countrymen, participants in the 90s wars that have become disabled and are not properly cared for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41086	On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41087	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with his associates. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and in accordance with the amendment to Article 1. If you remember, the amendment to Article 1 suggested adding the word "position" in the law contained, believing that the law that regulates and sets up and builds new memorials was not sufficiently defined. For this reason, I suggested that Article 2 define the meaning of certain terms and phrases add point 7, which would mean setting up a set of actions and procedures provided for by these and other laws, which allow the setting up or construction of war memorials. At the same time, points 7, 8 and 9 of the Bill would have become points 8, 9 and 10, which, as I had already explained earlier, would have been clearly defined in Article 1 and Article 2 of the Law, especially in Article 19. Namely, it remains a little vague until someone who reads the text of the law carefully until it reaches Article 19 to determine whether this law refers only to the already existing memorials or to the possibility of building and installing new monuments, monuments or arrangements of unedited military memorials. Since the law includes this, it would be perfectly logical to amend to Article 1 and to Article 2, as well as to Article 2. 3 and 4, which harmonize all of this I have suggested, accept, which would only give this law quality and clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41088	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41089	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on War Memorials, as referred to in point (7) of point 1 of point 1. Our intention was to avoid burdening the bill, so the amendment proposed to delete point 7 of point 1 of the first point of view, which defines regular maintenance. We in the SRS feel that defining concepts in law is unnecessary. We also believe that the very essence of the law as well as the application of the law in practice is much more important. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, it was written that the initial basis for this law was the provisions of the laws which would cease to apply, which I had already mentioned in the discussion of the previous amendments, but certain solutions from signed and ratified interstate agreements and other states, including the Russian Federation, in principle, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the deputy head of the Vjerica Radeta parliamentary group, spoke of the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on Social Security, said that the SRS will always provide public support when it comes to co-operation with the Russian Federation. All amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group aim to contribute to the adoption of the best text of the law, and the adoption of this amendment would give them a more relaxed and precise text. The Leskovec government had no hearing and will for the initiative of the Association of Fighters of the 1990s and Municipal Committee of the SRS Leskovac for the construction of the monument-marks of fallen fighters in the 1990s, and a project was built, a specific location, but no realisation took place. I expect by passing this law that this project will be implemented, the heroes of the Jablani County deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41090	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill on war memorials. When this law is looked at, the first impression is that it is one of those laws that is not of particular importance to the state of Serbia. But that's what it looks like. This, and similar laws, represent the mirror of every country and its relationship to those who have built their lives into the foundations of that country. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia does not show an adequate and real attitude towards the victims who gave their lives for the statehood of the Republic of Serbia and we in the SRS keep pointing out that. I must admit that this is not only the case with this authority, it was a similar situation with previous authorities, including the authorities in the time of the SFRY, and also with the authorities at the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It's like we're being followed by some fate, like we just don't have that sense of sacrifice that's important to every country. That's how many examples show it. One example is that Serbian heroine, famous Milunka Savic, ended up as a minor social case. She worked as a cleaning lady for Belgrade public toilets, and this happened again with some other Serbian giants. Let's say Duke Bojovic, the famous Serbian duke, ended in an infamous manner when new communist authorities came to Belgrade. Under strange circumstances, the Duke Bojovic ended up, and Radio Belgrade made a statement, announcing that all those who come to the funeral of the famous and famous Duke Bojovic will be arrested, detained and processed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41092	Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41093	Thank you. It is my duty as a MP to say that today and these days, too, we should have talked a lot more seriously, about many other laws that are here on the agenda, and we have dealt with one undeniable law here for two days, but very actively. Why is it an undeniable law? Well, it's undeniable because all of us are Serbs and all of us who are Serbs and who have some memories of our heroes in the past, of course we want all of us to be marked to respect all of this. But the question is also what is the relationship to the descendants of these victims, and the descendants of these victims are all of us. And what I'm trying to say is that when we come from the people and we know how the people feel and how the people live, we know that we don't have a good relationship with the descendants of these victims and our citizens now, and so this law seems a little degutant to the extent that we've given something, which I say we're talking about, and it wasn't at all controversial. What I'm trying to say is, why is this law urgent? The law isn't urgent at all. And we've given him so much time. Secondly, given the problem we have with the Ministry of Social Affairs, with the previous minister and his potential corruption, the question here is, where are the money from previous memorials, or from the previous money that was designated for the preservation of these memorials? So, for example, in 2016, in 2015, we have 25 million and 710 thousand for just 27 war memorials, and 10 million are defined for foreign memorials. Well, we have in 2016 defined 44 million, 45 million for just 25 war memorials, means retailes of 20,000 euros per memory. Then we have 10 million again for foreign memorials, and again last year we have 26 million, and we only have 17 memories. Since they're just spinning one of those same memories, then we have six thousand total memories listed, and then we say, we don't have the funds, so we have, and we don't have a report of how they've been spent, or how the next one's going to be defined or anything. We have a strong suspicion that in the work of that ministry before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41094	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41095	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, marking the 100th anniversary of the release of old Serbia from the Ottoman Empire, the great benefactor and patriots, the Serbian host, the South African industrialist, Mr. Nicifor Anicic, born from the Pre-polje village of Stranjani, restored the monument to the liberators of Prepolje in 1912, who raised the citizens of Prepolje. In the wake of the celebration of the great jubilee, Mr. Anicic, with the square in the city centre, restored the monument of the dead warriors in the wars from 1912 to 1919, the First and Second Balkan Wars and the First World War, or the Great War, was the work of the former Yugoslav Vajor Ivan Rendic, and his construction, immediately after the end of World War I, was initiated by the radical party Nikola Pasic, who won the first post-war elections in the municipality of Prepolje. Both memorial monuments were restored and brought to an enviable state by a Pre-Peaceal Vajar with the world's great reputation Goran Čpajak. Ppajak is the current teacher of apprenticeship at the Faculty of Applied Arts in Belgrade. He's been working these days to reconstruct and restore the monuments of gratitude and France in Calemegdan. His work on the restoration of two memorial monuments in Prepolje and the superior patronage of the second Prepolje, Mr. Anicicic speaks a lot. They talk about the fact that the task force, will and hearing of preservation and cultivation of memorial sites can be greatly achieved, by local forces, by loyalty, also by its cultural and historical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41096	The People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. On Article 2 of the amendment, the National MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. And after that, we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41097	Thank you. First of all, I must say that I was truly pleasantly surprised to hear that a fellow member of the ruling majority said something that I keep repeating, which is that cultural heritage represents the identity of the nation. I agree completely with this, and I'm very happy if that fact is here and accepted and recognized. Of course, this law is one small step in that direction, and we should make a lot more and much bigger steps. I also have to look back on something that I look back on every time, and in which I also, for my own pleasure, have joined some colleagues, and that is that since we have no chance of moving away from the two members of the first law in these discussions, I find it not at all good to be in such a way that I do not like the way they are, of course contrary to the Rules of Procedure and it seems to me to be a member of 57, a united law on memorials, seasonal workers and children's help. So now you see what kind of, I hope it's not really about each other, but obviously there may be some connection between those points. But to return to cultural heritage and the identity of the nation, to culture. One of the most important factors in this regard is to cultivate the purity of language, so I say that since we are always talking about only the first two members, we have the opportunity to evaluate them, very detailedly, and I have to notice that in this article, at point 9, there was a phenomenon which unfortunately became very detached in the Serbian language, which is that it is wrongly avoided using contributions, or that it was shown here that the memorials are marked in a visible way. Unfortunately, this amendment of mine has not been accepted. I must say that even in public and in all possible places, from the highest possible places we constantly hear such misuse of language, it is not good at all, we keep forgetting that there are contributions in Serbian. Well, that's why it's not right to say it in a visible way, but it's right to say it visible. It is not a rule to say in a good way, but to say it correctly – well. It is not right to say it in a great way but to say it correctly – excellent. And that is why I would like to appeal that we begin to express ourselves correctly and cultivate Serbian language, because this kind of misstatement is very similar to a bad translation and is certainly not in the spirit of the Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41098	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41099	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPplatimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41100	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, on the proposal of the War Memorial Act, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. War memorial laws. Article 2 paragraph 1 after point 9) adds a new point that reads - war memorial records also include records of all war memorials. I explained - the amendment adds the records of dead persons in wars and records of all war memorials, because without systematicised data, the proposed framework on war memorials would not be complete, especially given the different forms of war memorials and different levels of their protection and arrangement and reflection. A particular problem is the incomplete records of the victims in the Liberation Wars and the war conflicts during the 1990s. We owe these precise records to those who gave their lives for freedom and their family. Article 2 The law on war memorials taxively determines the meaning of certain concepts and what war memorial is, what is and where is the place of suffering, where is the famous place and the wider spatial continent, what is the public mention of the mark and what is considered a dead person. This article is closer to determining the protection of war materials, as well as the regular investment maintenance and editing of war memorials, and for the purposes of proper application of the understanding of the solutions contained in this legislative project. The new legal solution specifies the role of local self-government units related to the regular maintenance of war memorials on their territory, i.e. clearly defining the competences of the Republic of Serbia. This legal solution will regulate responsibility for recording memorials, records of all war victims, as so far records of the victims have been incomplete and liberating wars and in war conflicts during the 1990s. It's unacceptable that we don't know the names of the victims in all the wars, especially after the 1999 bombing. We owe these precise records to those who gave their lives for freedom and their families. It is particularly important and important in this law that Serbia's War Memorial Council be educated in order to successfully implement the Law on War Memorials to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars in order to give an opinion on the proposal to edit and remove war memorials. The council appoints a minister in charge of respect and cherishing the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. By adopting this law, all state bodies, economic operators, natural persons, or the general public, can initiate reconstruction, recovery, reconstruction of existing war memorials, as well as construction, installation and removal of war memorials, and can actively participate in realisation and financing through various types of donations. Therefore, it is rightly expected that the application of legal solutions in practice and clearly defined procedure of the whole procedure, from idea to realization, will be simplified and transparent, when available to all legal and physical persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41101	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Stevic's. The People's MP, Josip Broz, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41102	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, it is important to point out that the application of the War Memorial Act will not create additional costs for citizens or businesses, as there is no additional financial obligation for its application. In addition to conservation and maintenance, construction of new monuments that must contain a proposal to maintain them is also planned. It is also important that war memorials are an important part of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, which improve respect for human rights, national and religious feelings and traditions. In Mladenov, the symbol of the city is a monument to the Serb warrior from 1912 to 1918 and is a monument to 73 dead warriors with lyrics etched on the monument – for freedom, for unification, for glory. Just as the monument to the winner in Calemegdan is a symbol of Belgrade, so other cities have some of their symbols in terms of war memorials. The cultural heritage is handed over to the next generations and leaves a mark and perseverance in time. Stronger links between history and tourism are being established. It is necessary to create tourist tours that would tour monuments of importance for our history. Additional contents need to be made, museums to get as many tourists to know our history as possible. The more they know about her, the more they will appreciate us, because Serbia is a small country, but it has a big heart. From the above, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 where Article 2 is added, which indicates that the adequate maintenance of monuments and the expansion of memorial complexes and the construction of new ones, which do not need to be spared, can result in income tax in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the immaterial benefit is certainly the cultural, historical, military and political significance of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41103	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the two former Yugoslavias can be colluded into the memory of the Serb people's skeletons. Both of you. That's what I say quite responsibly. In this memory of skeletons, our ancestors were mostly killed. They freed themselves, but others and on their bones, both Yugoslavia was created on their blood. I think it was a mistake, and that's why both states mentioned skeletons. They freed more than once those who, in gratitude, killed their liberators at least twice. They were freed from life, property, territory. The same ones our ancestors freed. Hundreds of thousands were killed, in this memory of skeletons, hundreds of thousands, millions, members of most Serbian people. So, automatically, the entire former Yugoslavia can be a memorial to the victims, our ancestors. That was a cruel ethnic cleansing. The result of this crime is acquired territories that once belonged to our ancestors. There's a saying - when the crow gave birth to the falcon. And that is why I am asking that in the village of Vranic, on the estate of that Ljotic, which is here in the mix is also in favour of the Bulgarian Atak, in the Ljotic movement that supported Hitler, those neo-Nazis from Alternative for Germany, that the property in the village of Vranic, the memorial centre in the memory of the villagers, which they called the towers, because on his private estate, the property of his ancestors, was deprived of property, and even life, hundreds of peasants from the Chacan region. So, don't be surprised by this greeting, this is a greeting -- Hi Hitler, and -- for home-ready, coalitions, and I need the camera to show it well, that's what Serbs have never done, but it's like to the Latvians, who have tried to mix up all their ideas here, all their neo-fascists, neo-Nazis, and to God, they show up as freedom fighters. We've died a lot for others, it's time to live for ourselves. We've had enough, especially us peasants, crazy braves, it's time to be just brave and wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41105	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41106	Dear chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Serbian people have often been struck by powerful forces through centuries of history. The victims are huge, there have been very few words in these two days, and one of the colleagues today mentioned a figure of 6,000 memorials, which the Serbian people cherish, to preserve the memory of the too many victims we have given defending freedom and sometimes our own survival. Except that it's a good thing we're passing a law like this and we're editing this matter, and I think that historians, those who investigate all of our people's strategies, need to deal with both numbers and facts more. Why? We're very often witnessing number bidding, so we don't contribute to keeping the pies to our victims. History needs to give clear facts, clear data that will not be disputed in the future. In this way, the memorials that we build and keep will also gain meaning and will not be subject to criticism and debauchery among us. Of course, as I do yesterday and today, the best memory of those who have died through the centuries defending our country, defending freedom, are living people, are descendants. So we must do everything to repay them in the best possible way, to create an environment where the Serbian people live, to have children, to be born to descendants, who in the ultimate line, and to keep a living memory of all the victims and all the victims of our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41107	Thank you, colleague Jovic. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41108	Thank you. The esteemed ministers, with co-worker, fellow MPs, respected citizens, were restored at the Petrovaradin cemetery in 2013 to the first World War Russian soldiers. A monument in the form of a Russian Orthodox cross was erected back in 1929, where 96 soldiers of the Russian army were buried, who died of wounds and diseases in the Austro-Hungarian prison camp near Novi Sad. It was torn down in the 1990s and restored in July 2013. In 2017 the work was completed on the restoration of the Monument of Freedom at the Irish Venec. I could still list all over Serbia, this is specifically about Novi Sad, and this is just an example of what I've cited, proof that some of the many examples of SNS dealing with war memorials. For us, all the sacrifices that have been given freedom of Serbia deserve our great respect. It is our job to raise such monuments, restore and maintain and preserve the memory of their victims. The best way to preserve this memory is to create an orderly, economically powerful, politically independent and internationally political plan-based Republic of Serbia. That is why the development of the Republic of Serbia in every emerging form is the best monument we raise and which we repay to the ancestors and the better and the more orderly country we leave to the offspring. So in the voting day, I will support this and the other laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41109	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Bug Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Djordjevic with an associate, respected Serbian citizens, the area of protection of war memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian war memorials abroad in our legal system regulate a number of regulations that were passed during the time of the existence of the SFRY, i.e. when jurisdiction was shared between the former federal state of the Republic of Serbia, for these reasons it is necessary to pass a new law in order to replace the outdated solutions. The territory of the state has changed, the institutions that existed then no longer exist. We must strive to preserve from oblivion the events of our people's history, to enable young generations to learn about the struggle of their ancestors for freedom, their suffering, their heroism and their loyalty to their homeland. This law creates conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage for the period of war. In order to no longer be a situation for us to have any different features without clearly established criteria, to be raised, to be celebrated, whose memories should be kept and that the existing features would not be abandoned, it is necessary to adopt an adequate legislative regulation. In voting day, I ask my esteemed and respected colleagues to support this law, of course, if they have the strength and the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41111	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a Messenger of the people, Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41112	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers, the Battle of the Church and the Church heroes are an example of how they love and defend their homelands, and with their courage they have entered the annals of world history. It is therefore important that we respect and cultivate our history first and foremost, that new generations learn and respect the history and tradition of their ancestors who gave their lives for Serbia. To learn about the days of pride and glory when Serbian officers commanded -- for me, to be proud of Serb soldiers who had their courage to win the first victory in World War I. In their honor, the Cer Memorial Complex project, sponsored by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, was launched and the government of the Republic of Serbia and seven towns and municipalities from the Mačvanski District participated in the project. Why seven? The only ones who did not participate in signing a contract to start a company that will lead a project to build the Cer Memorial complex is the town of Sabac. Someone here from the opposition said that this law should be fully followed by their anti-Serbian policies, but, apparently, listeners Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas, Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, instead of helping and participating in the construction of the Cer memorial complex, intended for one of the most significant events in Serbian history, which is otherwise partly located in the territory of the town of Sapca, they are quite the opposite of deciding to associate with the mayor of Peća, Gazmendo Muhadgeri and the president of the assembly, Islam Husai, while smiling under the flag of the self-proclaimed and unrecognizable state of Kosovo. So, on the one hand, we have Duke Stepanovic and Serbian heroes who gave their lives to defend their country's freedom, and on the other hand, new friends from Peci. Of course, Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic and Nemanja Pajtic have defined themselves as these other new friends from Peći. Who it's from, and I'm not surprised. In the end, they probably watched the Serbia-Switzerland match together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41113	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41114	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, the cultural heritage memorial corpus plays an even stronger role in this law and, most importantly, we also view cultural heritage as a resource in the field of culture, in the field of education, in the area of economy, economy and tourism, and this is the part where, for example, the Memorial of France, the Monument of Gratitude, the Memorial of the Unknown Hero and the symbols and visual identity of Belgrade, and it certainly has to do with tourism and the economy. It was challenging whether these amendments could have something to do with both corruption and economy and anything and I think I have here and what important proof that they have when. When you enter the Geosrbi portal, you will find more precisely where the monument is and where the bones of Serb victims from World War II on Zlatibor in the Municipality of Chatin, you will see this monument and the place where they rest their bones on plot 4624/1, and then on the site of the Republic Geodesy Institute, the number of plot 4624, under the number of parcels one, type of cargo – mortgage. Dear friends, in Zlatibor, the place where the bones of Serb victims from World War II rests is mortgaged, along with hectares of the surrounding country, and for the purpose of the loan raised, according to the state auditor's report, for the disputed acquisition of the gondola. This Milan Stamatovic, who took this hand, gives us a lecture on how to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. He teaches us how to be Serbs. These coalition partners are too bad they're not here to see what these amendments have to do with both corruption and many other actions. These people when you ask how the country where the Serb victims are resting is mortgaged, they will answer how much they hate Alexander Vukic. That's their answer. They wait for what the Serbian patriarch will say about Alexander Vukic to form an opinion on the Serbian patriarch. Indeed, for some people’s personal interests, nothing is sacred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41115	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is LJibuška Lakatosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41116	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow MPs, the proposed Law on War Memorials is adopted by emergency procedure, which is the need, because it is of great importance to regulate issues that regulate the law in order to make the state administration work more efficiently in the process of safeguarding maintenance, as well as financing maintenance and planning of memorials, as well as keeping records of existing memorials. The law defines the competences of local self-government units involved in the regular maintenance of war memorials on their territory and the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia in terms of the investment maintenance of war memorials and on the territory of our country, as well as the maintenance of Serbian war memorials abroad. The regulations governing the area of war memorials were passed 40 years ago and therefore the adoption of this law is a need, because it defines more clearly the responsibilities, strengthening responsibility and efficiency of the units of local self-government and other institutions and individuals, as well as the creation of the necessary conditions for the protection of cultural heritage related to wartimes. Through education, which is an important segment of every social community, in primary, secondary and high school institutions, the necessary level of knowledge about historical facts, related to the war periods of our country, is to be provided, fostering a tradition that, apart from language, letter, custom and belief, symbolises a particular nation as an immovable cultural heritage. The organised war memorials as an important segment of Serbia's cultural heritage should become part of a quality and attractive tourist offer, which will certainly affect Serbia's overall development. The programme objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the improvement of the standard of living of Serbian citizens, are also discussed by the proposed laws on simplified employment in seasonal affairs in certain activities, where both employers and seasonal workers will be motivated to be registered, and thus the grey economy facing our country is curbed. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children encourages a population policy and improves the material situation of the family with children, another significant indicator of the government's responsible policy, headed by Aleksanda Vukic towards all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41117	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41118	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is part of the Battle Memorial complex in Batina, near Bezdan, the monument to the Red Army, etc. "Winning", raised at the site of the most fierce struggles, so-called Bleeding quota 169. Within the complex there is a monument with two exhibition rooms, with a permanent museum exhibition about the Batin Battle, as well as a memorial park and a common tomb with the remains of 1297 Red Army fighters. A part of the memorial complex, more specifically the memorial museum, was built in 1981 and is located on the Baška coast of Danube, on the Serbian side. The museum has been destroyed for many years because it served to station military units during wartime acts in Croatia. The funds of the province's government of Vojvodina and the city of Sombora were renovated and the new museum setting was officially opened to the public on the 73rd anniversary of the Battle of Batin, that is, on 11 November 2017. For the adaptation of a memorial museum on the coast of Duvan near the Bezdan, the province government has singled out 11.6 million dinars, while the town of Sombor has invested 3.5 million dinars. The museum was all grown up. It was impossible to approach it from growing and forest, and only its top was seen. Workers of the Sombor firms have made superhuman efforts to bring the museum into its present state, to train it to the public. The new position at the renovated Batin Battle Museum shows the course of the Battle of Batin, which was fought from 11th to 29th November 1944, in the fruit of the 50th Grand Duchy Division and the Third Ukrainian Front of the Red Army. Since Prime Minister Ana Brnabic was also present at the opening, she noted that Serbia proudly keeps a memory of all heroes who have laid down their lives for freedom. Serbia is still resting on the same values, anti-fascism and freedom, and our policy has not changed so far. The government of the Republic of Serbia seems to continue with the difficult reforms aimed at daily improvements in the lives of all our citizens. We especially care about young people, because without investment in youth there is no future, but we need to take care of the older generations, which will direct our youth to preserve and maintain these war memorials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41119	Thank you, colleague Granny. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, there is no more important question for all of us and the task that we have to solve in order to reach the most important goal of ensuring a highly developed and modern society, developed and strong local self-government, a greater standard and a better life for all of our citizens. According to this 2012 goal, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has achieved a number of results that all relevant international institutions assess with the highest rating, which today only those who in 2012 have been in a position to make them themselves. Their interest went in the opposite direction from Serbia's general interests, to make it a country in which it can be properly lived, with the right to equal chances for everyone to advance and create a better future for their children. Today, when the personal dignity of our citizens is raised, we are able to discuss this Law on War Memorials, which we are unequivocally saying that by regulating, protecting and maintaining war memorials, we cultivate traditions for the future of our generations, because in addition to language, letters, history, customs and belief, the immutable cultural heritage is of the particular value of every nation. Our cultural heritage related to wartimes, and therefore a dignified memory of the deaths in many war events that have occurred in our country's space, we must protect them with historical facts and keep them from oblivion. Powered local self-governments, as they are today, alongside the people who lead them, handling SNS policies, respecting the actual facts of the Serbian people's and other citizens' deaths, will fully implement the provisions of this law. Realising this law will preserve our cultural heritage from wartimes, but which is also important, we will improve our tourist offer, which will certainly contribute to the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41121	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, local self-government in Vojvodina is full of mentions when it comes to Serbian, national communities and members of foreign armies. Directly and through the institutions, the province government is keeping each of these segments equally. Vojvodina is part of Serbia that is inhabited by first-world war volunteers, those who have survived. We have a moral and emotional obligation to say a little bit about them, because I am a direct descendant of one of them. The Serbian people's history was given to volunteers by one of the most honorable roles. The First World War volunteer movement of Serbs is a unique and specific phenomenon in the world. The only true thought of every volunteer was the Serbian homeland. He willingly chooses for himself, his life, and his family very often sacrifice for his native breast and heart, and their descendants, we must not forget the glorious ancestors who made our homeland with their blood. Whoever forgets that has lost Serbian history has lost himself. Volunteers from America, Russia, New Zealand, Australia, arrived in Thessaloniki to fight for the country of Serbia and a glorious country. It's believed there were about 40,000 of them. That's an assumption, you don't know the exact number. Many remained in Zeitinlik, a Serb military cemetery in Thessaloniki. It's a pilgrimage place. The Serb army has lost every third soldier. The compressions planted around the graves of Serb soldiers are the Hilandar monastery, a great symbolist, as a guard for the fallen Serbian heroes. This year it ends 100 years from the breach of the Thessaloniki Front. In Serbia's territory, we only have individual features of the victims on the Thessaloniki front. The Thessaloniki front war memorial is the Serb military cemetery in Thessaloniki. There were very many sick, very many wounded at the breach of the Thessaloniki Front. Serbia's military sanity could not recover from the Balkan wars and could not help all the sick and wounded. So at the invitation of Nikola Pasic, about 200 foreign doctors, 500 educated nurses entered the hospital of Scottish women and a doctor, Elizabeth Ross, who came from London, volunteered to treat patients of spotted typhoid in Kragujevac and died there. I'd still like to commend the 60-year-old nurse who came from Switzerland, so-called. Clara Katarina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41123	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41124	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the Memorial Park of Hisar, which makes up the Statute of Victory and 17 stones with the names of the most prominent woodland fighters in World War II, has this year detailed the memory complex that has been abandoned and exposed to destruction. It is now a place for young people to visit again, as it was previously intended for the collective visits of preschool and school children. During June 2018, more than 40 years later, a children's event called "Memory Park 2018" took place in this area, which was attended by all preschool and school children. The National Museum in Leskovac was founded in 1948 and was located in the house of Bora Dimitrijevic Pixle, which was built in the second half of the 19th century in the so-called "St. Balkan style. In 1974 a new facility was built in which museum collections were moved. The museum is a complex type because it collects, studies and presents historical and artistic objects from archaeology, history, ethnology, art history, from the prehistory of Leskovec and the environment to today. The crown of the museum's decades-long work is a permanent setting of "Timeboard of the Wooden End" opened on 9 May 2015. It is the first phase of reconstruction of a permanent position from 1974 and shows the life of the people of Leskovic region from Neolith to the late Turkish era. In two architectural works, eight thousand years of history were presented. The first part of the vitreous form of the pyramid symbolically depicts the archaeological treasure of Hisar, a hill above Leskovec, which represents the richest site of the Brnič cultural group from the 14th century BC. From the period of Roman domination, he presented gold jewelry from the locality of Mala Kopasnica. Medieval history depicts Dubocica and the time of Nemanjic, a time of despotism and the development of the city in Turkish times. A space that testifies to the Middle Ages is dominated by the figure of Serbian knight Nikola Skobaljic in natural size and under full military equipment. A special place was also given to the Woodland Panajour, the largest and most famous fair in the Balkans, where Dubrovnik merchants and traders from all over the region came. In the second architectural part of the setup, the archaeological site of Caric's town, the birthplace of Emperor Justin the First, was presented. Part of the setting in Caric's city, which is located on the preliminary UNESCO World Heritage List, is the material collected in hundreds of years of research. As part of ethnology, the setup monitors the period from the Turkish era to today, the development of trade, the economy and the customs of the woodland. Part of the setting relating to World War I contains documents, photographs, weapons and military equipment of soldiers from this area. The working movement between the two world wars shows the development, organisation and operation of the labor movement in the woodwork area from 1918 to 1941. The Leskovac proletariat during this period has organised major strikes to improve the economic position and gain political rights, but it is also the period of the golden age of Leskovec, the overall boom and the progress of the city in which it has won with the right of the synonym of the dyed-out little Manchester. I'll talk about it in the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41125	The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41126	Thank you, Chairman. Tourism revenues in Serbia reached a record amount of nearly a billion euros last year, with an increase of 17% for 2018, which would be around 3% of GDP. Serbia has no way out of the sea, but is investing in highlighting its geographical position in the heart of the Balkans, on river cruises, historical monuments and low prices, which will attract more foreign tourists. The introduction of free vouchers several years ago, which was issued last year by about 60,000, has only opened a gateway to the development of domestic tourism and shown a series of untapped potentials and opportunities for profit. Rare are families where there are no participants or victims in any of the wars, and Serbia has been silent and listening too long from others about itself. With the development of memorial tourism, we have opened up the opportunity for citizens, families to show the world their memories, memories of past generations, of our heroes and heroines, to correct the wrong picture of Serbia presented by malicious extremists to the world, trying to hide and conceal the truth. We found a way to tell our own stories. That's why realising the War Memorial Act is very important. From an economic point of view, we come to the conclusion that the inclusion of memorials in tourist offers will boost the development of all tourism branches. So, by restoring monuments and investing in the remains and legacy of the past, different opportunities are being opened for the employment of citizens, the development of infrastructure and the improvement of living standards. Great cultural potentials for Serbia can contribute to economic development, the preservation of income, strengthening foreign reserves and the creation of new jobs. By preserving and revitalising the forgotten site of destruction, the possibility of developing different tourism branches and strengthening the private sector, which is given the opportunity to in an innovative and creative way, transfer skills, tradition, customs and knowledge, participate in the economic development of the country and also provide itself with a continuous flow of money and financial stability. The amendment I have made just indicates that the implementation of this law provides for Serbia's overall development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41127	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Stoiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Studenka Kovacevic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41128	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Your Honor, that peace has no price, However, in situations where our Serbia had to defend itself, the heroes we must remember suffered. Among those heroes is Tibor Cerna, who died in Kosharam in 1999, one of the 108 soldiers who gave their lives to Serbian Koshar, defending Serbia's freedom and independence. After 18 years, a monument was erected to him. The monument was discovered by Alexander Vukic, along with Tibor Cerna's mother. Tibor died in his 21st year of life, and his unlived life is ours. We owe so much to such a small number of heroes. 108 laid down their lives and prevented our country's land invasion. The last words of Tibor were worth dying for. Today this is a country worth living for and we will continue to develop it economically. We will not allow the battle with a far superior enemy to be repeated, that 20-year-olds suffer, that no mother will ever feel such a loss again. That's why peace and stability are so important. I will also say that the KLA, NATO and Albanian armies attack on Košara Karaula lasted 67 days, and the battle for Kosare officially ended on June 14, 1999, when the Yugoslav Army pulled out of Kosar on the basis of the Kumanovo Agreement with KFOR forces. The sacrifices made by our heroes should always remind us that we should do everything possible to avoid new wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41129	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jovica Jevtic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41130	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the military memorial within the meaning of this law is a military cemetery, a single grave, a gravestone, a monument, a public memorial, a place of destruction, a famous place and another piety symbol of importance for the cultivation of the tradition of the Liberation Wars of the Republic of Serbia. Since military memory of places of special importance for respect for tradition and history, it is necessary for every tourist organisation in the territory of their municipalities to place a mandatory part of the excursion programme to visit military memorials located in the municipality, so that visitors can best get acquainted with our history and liberating tradition. On the territory of the municipality of Bajina Basta on 12.08.2016, a memorial was discovered for Darji to Aleksandrov Korobkina, a Russian nurse who treated Serb soldiers during the Cerska Battle. Darja Aleksandrovna was a nurse for the Drinska Division's second call, and during the difficult struggles at Kurovic's hut, until then, she had the impertinence of the wounded Serb soldiers. It's been recorded that in just one day, she overtook more than a hundred wounded. She died heroically on October 2, 1914 on Gucheva. The memorial plate at the base school building in Bačevci was discovered by then by Minister Alexander Vulin and Russian Ambassador to Serbia Alexander Cepurin. In this way, Bajina Basta and Serbia have shown that they do not forget their eternal friendships with the brotherly Russian people and respect all the brave people who gave their lives for Serbia's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41131	I thank you For Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill on war memorials. The area of protection of war memorials, i.e. the area of protection of war memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and of Serbian war memorials abroad, is governed by several regulations. Regulations governing this matter were passed during the period of the existence of the SFRY and the SRJ, when jurisdiction in this area was divided between the former federal state, in whose jurisdiction were war memorials, that is, graves of fighters abroad and graves of members of Allied and other armies in the territory of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia in whose jurisdiction were graves of fighters in the country. In the formulation of the provisions of the draft law, the basis was set out in the applicable rules. However, the applicable regulations in the positive legal order of the Republic of Serbia do not regulate the area in a comprehensive manner, so the text of this law includes individual solutions from signed and ratified international agreements with the Slovak Republic, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation and established the basis for negotiating and concluding agreements where negotiations are still under way. In addition, a comparative legal analysis of regulations in the region has been used in drafting the text. What I'm trying to say is that in the village of Reljan, in the municipality of Presevo, a monument was erected to the fallen soldiers of the Yugoslav Army in NATO aggression, that the heroes who defended our country should not forget. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41133	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vladimir Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41134	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the area of the memorial has so far been under-protected and inadequately protected. As I have already noted, previous legal solutions are more than 40 years old. Since then, many have seen political, economic and social changes, all of which have led us to have inconclusive legal solutions in the area that are not in line with other regulations, resulting in multiple difficulties, a problem of vaguely defined competences, difficulties in the work of institutions and inadequate protection and the possibility of control of spent resources. However, it is important to point out that the bill monitors social flows, including the trend in the work of digitisation. There is also a significant newspaper that is being introduced, which is a unique record. It is predicted that a single record is being kept on Serbian war memorials located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also abroad, but also on the number of people killed, starting even since the First Balkan War, which is one of the most significant newspapers. So far, there has been no legal basis for keeping this type of record. According to the Bill of Law, the Ministry keeps records of deceased persons, and the aim is to use them for statistical and scientific research purposes. The specific objective is to combine data from previous records kept by the competent state authorities, as well as other legal entities in accordance with the Personal Protection Act. The possibility of international co-operation with competent authorities from other countries in international organisations is also foreseen. Co-operation is achieved in accordance with the law and international agreements. This is one of the most important newspapers provided for by the War Memorial Bill. By keeping a unique record that monitors the development of information and technology resources, telecommunications and digitisation, we pay due attention to war memorials and persons who have laid down their lives for our country's freedom and we draw attention to future generations for the loss of our ancestors. On this occasion, I would invite all MPs to support this bill in the voting day and to pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41135	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41136	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Law on War Memorials will regulate matter related to the maintenance and arrangement of war memorials, means the arrangement of military graves, individual graves, gravestones, monumental chapels, memorial churches, memorial records and place of death, a place of importance for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. This shows our respect for the victims of war and the fallen fighters, for our past and for all those who have lost their lives in armed conflicts. Serbia wants its brave ancestors to pay their honours and always seeks to make mentions in their honor worthy, because that is how we keep memories of them, and that is also a guarantee for a better future. This is how we preserve our tradition and remember the heroism of our people. We remember and condemn violence in March 2004 in Kosovo and Metohija, and in a dramatic way the problem of preserving, restoring and protecting cultural monuments has also been revived. Kosovo is the seat of an artistic heritage that testifies to the presence and life of different civilizations on the territory, which is the intersection of culture and spiritual creation of the East and the West. More than 300 cultural monuments have been registered in Kosovo and Metohija, and over 120 are Serb monuments of religious culture. Many medieval Orthodox monuments have been torn down, damaged, and threatened. The destruction of religious and cultural heritage is one way to show hostility and the method of eradicating the testimony of the historic presence of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. The situation was influenced by the fact that UNMIK and KFOR's international forces had no view of the fact that protection of cultural heritage is an important factor in protecting and stabilising opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija and that this is an important prerequisite for stabilising the situation and normalising the relations of national communities in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. In addition to cultural goods, all Serbian cemeteries in the southern areas have been destroyed, so it is difficult to go and find the grave of their ancestors. This is what our president is doing to protect everything in Kosovo and Metohija. We're investing and rebuilding in destruction with the goal of creating a strong, economic, stable and independent state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41137	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41138	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 2. The draft law adds Article 2 which further defines the introductory provisions and Article 2 of this Act. What is most important is that this law creates the necessary conditions to protect the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important to distinguish competences in the financing of regular maintenance and investment maintenance between the competent ministry and the local self-government unit on whose territory war memorials are located, and that is what is currently defined by this bill, as they clearly specify the duties of the local self-government unit for regular maintenance, on the one hand, and on the other hand, clearly define the competences of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to investment maintenance. Also, the bill defines and overcomes problems when units of local self-government are unable to provide financial resources related to the regular maintenance of war memorials that are important for the cultivation of Serbia's Liberation Wars tradition. The bill also addresses the issue of maintenance and jurisdiction in the area of protection of war memorials abroad, and the law defines the obligation to keep records of war memorials in the country and abroad. The competent authority for keeping records, as well as the central records conducted by the ministry responsible for fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, is also defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41139	Thank you, colleague Pesic. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41140	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the task of the modern democratic state to preserve cultural identity through constant and professional heritage care. The wealth of cultural heritage testifies to the ethnic, linguistic, cultural, religious, and other differences of one country. I think it's really a good time to pass a new Law on War Memorials that are of paramount importance to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. I want to point out the importance of adopting this law for our children and for all future generations. To create a better future, we need to get to know the past. If we look at the present in which we live, we can conclude that generations born in the middle of the last century, even those who later did not learn some important lessons. We must not let our children know how many memories exist in their country, not know who they are dedicated to, what they represent and what they teach us. Based on the partial data collected in the previous period in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are some 6,000 war memorials, and it is not on retrieval that, for example, 625 Serbian war memorials have been recorded abroad in the following countries: Albania, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Belarus, BiH, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Greece, Denmark, Egypt, Zimbabwe, Israel, Italy, South Africa Republic, Canada, Libya, Macedonia, Hungary, Malta, Morocco, Germany, Holland, New Zealand, Norway, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Tunisia, Turkey, France, Croatia, Montenegro, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Sweden and Spain. It is also important to say that all state authorities, economic operators and natural persons, i.e. the general public, can initiate reconstruction, recovery, reconstruction of existing war memorials, as well as the construction, installation or removal of war memorials, and can actively participate in the realization. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty and obligation of all of us to bring our children closer to our history, not to forget who the heroes were, who were the heroines of the Serbian past. We make this law a bond between the best we've ever had and the ones that are just coming. Kissinger said -- history, it's the memory of the state, the memory of the nations and the indication of the state. War memorials are our memories, so you never forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41141	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41142	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I have submitted another amendment to this bill with the intention of putting an accent on undeveloped areas, on underdeveloped areas, mountain-mounted areas from which a large number of people who have given their lives for our country are coming, and we are giving this law a great opportunity to pay these people back their respects. Mr. Minister, I thank you because in the previous period you were also a man who was in the Army in special units, you were a participant in the war, you were Minister of Defence, and now as Minister of Labour and Social Policy you really have an understanding and this law is very important for all of us. One more thing that is very important to us, you have people next to you who really are people of integrity. One of them is your ministry adviser, Mr. Sasa Dujovic, who was also a war participant, a man who fought for our country. That's why this law you've proposed serves to honor our people who have died. Today I'm going to talk about some of our monuments to the people who died in Nis, from the nicks. Let's say the monument to the Chegra where our Duke Stepanović is, Stevan Stevanovic, along with his men, wanted to free Nis the Dukes. In 1809, they organized themselves on May 31st, but because of disagreement they failed to do so, and that's why the Turks organized themselves, which is why our Mr. Stevan Sidelic saw that he couldn't be saved and shot at the gunpowder. He didn't want to be in the hands of the enemy, but he gave his life and was our legend. A monument to the drums, the same sight where more than 10,000 campers were shot during World War II. A monument to the liberators of Nis in the center of Nis. That's all we have to remember, what we have to keep and always cherish. At the same time, we have given the set of laws the opportunity to give birth, to stimulate birth through the help of our families, women who will give birth and create our families. I have put the amendment here with the desire to give a great accent to women living in the country, families living in the country, to provide them with 20 to 50% more funds because they live in our villages and because they will guard our villages. Once again, I thank all of you, and I urge my fellow Members to vote in favour of my amendments, to vote for everything that is worth it, and we must respect our people who have given their lives for our country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41143	I thank my colleague Miletic. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41144	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, 11 weeks of continued NATO bombing in 1999 took thousands of lives, including innocent children. The material damage is not worth talking about, but I must stress that targeted monuments of culture are targeted. The conflict wasn't bombed, but she suffered her victims, too. Before the aggression itself over terrorist actions, some had to be present in Kosovo on official duty. Thus, my fellow citizen Bora Stevanovic was in Kosovo as a member of the MUP and passed his life right there in 1998. He left behind a two-year-old child. In the park outside the police administration in Sokobanja, a monument of Boris was placed on which the lyrics of Milan Rakic were written. In 2014, he was awarded a posthumously gold plaque for courage. In memory of their second employee at the Sokobanja police station, they established a small football memorial tournament. Let this be a good example to all Serbian citizens that we must not forget any of the freedom sacrifices we enjoy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41145	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41146	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, we have very expensively paid for freedom and it is high time and it is time for us to finally live in peace and to make victories, to win alongside Alexander Vukic and the Government who, through this law and through all the laws we have passed, and which we will bring to the future, creates the conditions that we expect only peace and expect only in peace. Of course we can't, and we'll never forget how and at what cost it's paid, and it's paid for with lives. We won't forget. To forgive perhaps we can, we forgave the Germans the First and Second World War. We've forgiven the Turks, we've forgiven them a lot, but we won't forget, and we can't forget that the 14th of September of this year will be a full 100 years since the beginning of the Thessaloniki Front. The commander of the Serbian army was Duke Zivojin Misic, Petar Bojovic and Stepa Stepanovic, who commanded the first and second armies of the Serbian army and exactly the 140,000 soldiers who were headed for a breakthrough of the Thessaloniki front and who were moving faster than the French cavalry deserve to be finally built on today and in this country the memorial complex that deserves the army, as both our ancestors and those military victims deserve. I mentioned in the first amendment that in 16.11.2017 a contract was signed and certified by notaries, the Government of the Republic of Serbia along with the town of Loznica, the municipality of Bogatic, LJubovija, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Vladimirci, Koceljeva founded the Memorial complex "Cer" d.o.o. Sabac and this Memorial complex will be 6,001 or if we have 6,000 complexes may not be the largest, but it will certainly be one of the greatest and most significant monumental complexes that we will show to our ancestors, but also to our heirs how and how we remember those who freed us to live and allow us to live in freedom. What is important, I have done it through the amendment and submitted it is precisely an opportunity to regionally connect and regionally advance Serbia, and these are also memorial complexes. It is this memorial complex that I hope at Cer, before the centenary is marked, which is the 11th of November of this year, that will finally be set as a cornerstone and I must mention again that the citizens of Sapca, and the citizens of Serbia also know that there is someone who today does not want to participate in the construction of a memorial complex located on the territory of the town of Sapca, which is precisely the remains of the yellow company, Dusan Petrovic and its satellites. Incredibly, but true, they did not sign a founding act on the establishment of a public enterprise located in the area of the town of Šapca. On behalf of the citizens of Šapca, I apologize to my ancestors and the first thing that we do when someone who is trusted by the citizens and who thinks about the future of the citizens of Šapca and Serbia to the first thing we will do – we will enter a partnership and a public enterprise that will primarily be in the area of Mount Cer and which will show how much we want to repay our ancestors. The Cer Memorial complex will, of course, help to develop this area and unite a region in which first of all Cer, Pocerina, Jadar, Podrinje, Machva, Tamnava, Posavina will have opportunities to develop a tourist complex and that, in addition to agriculture and fruit growing, they are also known for tourism. What's important, this government, this president of the state, is thinking about the future, but thinking about the past and exactly his initiative is building this memorial complex. The living were, see, very soon we will have a complex where the monument of 55 to 60 meters, in the form of a cross, with two panoramic lifts, with accompanying facilities, will decorate the Cer Mountain and be a lighthouse for all in Serbia, but, of course, those outside Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41147	Thank you. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41148	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning, if you noticed, almost all the representatives of the opposition, I will not say all, but almost all representatives of the so-called. The civil, democratic, pro-European opposition apparently by the dictatorship, and by the dictation of the new boss Dragan Gilas, they have asked an almost identical question, which is what Aleksandar Vukic is doing as president of the Republic regarding Kosovo and Metohija. We are accused directly and indirectly of betraying Kosovo and Metohija, of leading a non-patriotic policy, of going over Serbia's Constitution, of running some secret negotiations, of being ready to accept the independence of KIM, of accepting the KIM chair in the organisation of the UN, etc. It is obvious that it is a dictatorship, because it is impossible for almost identical questions to be asked by the representatives of the Dvora and the Democratic Party and the party of Vuk Jeremic and there have been enough of these parliamentary clubs that have come from the Movement enough. So, they all had the same question, and the question was, in fact, the attack on Alexander Vukic, on the Serbian government, on the SNS, that we are traitors and that we intend to do something wrong when it comes to KIM. Why am I saying this? With us Serbs, unfortunately, there is one feature that we are trying to be senile and courting those who don't usually love us or love us too much and who don't think very much of us. I hope this discussion of mine won't be misunderstood. I'll try to explain how much hypocrisy today was present in the National Assembly, this morning, when these questions about KIM were raised, when many of them were bullied by talking about KIM, with something I'm about to read to you, which is about this political mile, that's this democratic, pro-European, civil Serbia that SNS accuses of betraying KIM. So, I hope no one gets me wrong. I'm talking about a man who was just an actor until yesterday. He was an actor and he remained an actor, but when someone comes out of the acting world and openly supports one political option, then I don't just look at him as an actor anymore, but I look at him as a politician. And when someone from the art world steps into the world of politics, then he must be willing to suffer certain political criticisms. Why am I saying all this? Nikola Djuričko gave an interview with a journalist named Vid Bajic on 25 June 2018. Why am I saying this? Because this morning we were accused of being traitors, of hating our own people, and of doing everything according to the dictatorship in Brussels, of selling KIM, here, the minister was a living witness to these issues. Mr Đuričko says next – “I love Zagreb, I have many friends, acquaintances and often find myself here, both privately and businessly. I was on satire days for the first time, even though my theater was already coming. According to Zagreb, we were always great at the "Animal Fest", a great party - says Đuričko, who, apart from acting, tried music, TV and directorship. “ Now something about their European, other Serbian, civil patriotism and the defence of KIM. Here they mocked us, asking us to name the wars we won in the 1990s, which we lost, in which we participated, in which we did not participate, called us, who is a little politically written, that in fact we Serbs and Serbia are responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, that we are responsible for the wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we are responsible for what happened at KIM. And, says Mr. Gjurichko next, for those famous nineties, and yesterday I read to you a part of what they said in the '90s, but now they're trying to hide like a snake's feet, he says -- it was the hardest time for these spaces, the system collapse, saved me from the army. I studied for ten years, and we from art studies were freed from the army. So, on the one hand, you have this, and on the other hand, you're trying to make a career, and by the way, you have to grow up, and you have to stand alone. Fortunately, I also understood early the emptyness of these nationalist stories. In the '90s, I worked intensively in the middle of all this, and if I hadn't, and somehow ended up in the army, I'd be deserting at the moment, says Djuričko, and he adds that in time, earning from acting, he lived much better than his parents, and he was already developing love for both film and theatre boards compared. He says – The Đuričko part of the Serbian public, says this Croatian journalist, Đuričko part of the Serbian public does not tolerate precisely because he was without hair on his tongue commenting on daily political circumstances. After making a film in BiH with Angelina Joli, he ended up on some obscenity list of anti-Serbs, and his own political engagement was cemented by candidate Sasa Jankovic in last year's presidential elections. Jankovic said in a strong campaign that Vucic holds Serbia in a state of emergency, that he sows fear, and anyone who holds the constitution declares traitor. He also troubled Srebrenica, and a number of Serbian nationalist myths, making it clear he was not popular with the voter's work. The same thing happened to Djury, who was secretly supporting him. Djurico explains his support to Sasa Jankovic, who, I see now, killed by the defence of KIM, along with Vuk Jeremic. Gjuricko says -- it seemed to me that as a aged, free citizen of Serbia, they could express their political stance. This has caused me a lot of trouble, and today I cannot play in some Belgrade halls in Serbia, be careful, he says in Zagreb. There is a repression in Serbia against all who are not like-minded by some general discourse, and this should end at any cost. For all things, some people give up expressing their views, but political attitude must be formed and clearly communicated regardless of what you may lose. This is what a man in Zagreb says, and here today, if you read "Evening news", Milorad Pupovac, who lives in Zagreb, says he can not take a single step anywhere for a month in Zagreb without being exposed to the worst possible attacks and insults just because he is a Serb and because he is a Serbian MP in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Gjuričko says about it and what our Serbian culture is like, says political culture – Serbia's political culture is at a very low level. We're young people, we just have to mature through many processes. We haven't even pushed out in the '90s yet. Sometimes it feels like the same nationalist rains as it did. I hope it won't all come again someday. First of all, we need to make peace with the fact that history is science and that it's done by scientists, not by a team in a cafe. When we accept it, we can only formulate our position on this basis, and with us the reverse process is in force, history is falsified and used to manipulate people. I don't want to read any more. Why did I read this? Because the lessons about the defence of KIM, about how we're going to betray KIM, about how we're going to sell for what the Serbian people who live in KIM, the lessons about patriotism are being taught to us by people who openly confess in the middle of Zagreb so they don't go to the military, that they deliberately extended their studies so that they don't go to the military and that they go to the military, they say, from that army, they would desert immediately. And here, today, as far as I was informed through "Tanjug", the Serbian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has protested sharply over Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's move, who has today accused Serbia of being an aggressor to Croatia and that it is the main culprit for all the wars that were waged during the 1990s. So all those who are this morning, I see that none of them are here in the O.R., apparently asked a question by the dictatorship of the new boss of that so-called. European and so on. Democratic opposition, this new boss is called Dragan Gilas, a man who has only been reported to him, how undeclared he is, that only the Holy God knows, has a 25m-euro reported asset, which is portrayed as some kind of socialist, as a uniter, and so on. The pro-democracy and pro-European opposition, which, therefore, is in their dictation, has been asking these questions by his dictatorship, accusing Serbia's current leadership of treason. Here, this is what people like this do who are willing in the worst possible way to speak uglyly about their country. I am in my own time, and so were my other colleagues while we were in the opposition, never ugly, I think it's a basic political code, never talking about my country, so don't even talk about its government, it doesn't talk ugly when it goes abroad, it defends national and national interests. At least one part of the official state policy is represented, and you do not go to Zagreb to those who say – your people are responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and then you tell them – I am not one of them, I studied acting, if they had mobilized me, I would have deserted first thing tomorrow. Why did I say all this? We do not accept that the lessons about KIM, patriotism, Serbia's defence are being held by Sasa Jankovic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas and those who today, only to be given the opportunity, to sell to Serbia, as they have been selling it in time, as our people would say – for a can of lenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41149	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Janošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41150	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected fellow citizens, mentioning the obelisk located on the Mihaylovak Road, just two, three kilometers from the city of Zrenjanin, was placed and imagined as a self-absorbed abstract structure and sculpture that emerges from the plain part of the plain. The monument was erected on July 26th 1941 by gunfighters, the Velibečka Squad, who performed a grain and monument burning action that summer, was erected after World War II by the project of the grain architect Tibor Bence. The two basic elements that make up that monument are the concrete pentagon of an irregular form, the height of three meters, which emerges from the ground, three iron spikes directed towards it that have symbolic meaning, which is a way of torturing and killing all the people who then lost their lives, and between them one woman, Ruza Shuman, who was offered pardon, and that some of the information of his fellow citizens. She said then - never, I die for freedom. That's the firmness of moral decisions and moral principles I advise those who have just left the hall with a smile, they mocked my colleagues when we defended the amendments, those who attacked Alexander Vukic and the SNS. That absolutely says who's the real patriot here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41151	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41152	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have been discussing details of the Law on War Memoriales waiting for a full 40 years to come to the National Assembly before the MPs. He was waiting for a responsible government and a responsible resolution ministry to send to the National Assembly just like this law, a law that in a comprehensive, comprehensive and complete manner regulates war memorials, but regulates both their regular maintenance and their investment maintenance. For the first time, it regulates the way and process of building new war memorials, because the country of Serbia, every city and every city have a hero who gave their lives for freedom, and freedom is the greatest value for SNS and the greatest value of all Serbian citizens. These heroes who gave their lives for freedom deserve to be killed in a dignified way. This is exactly what this law and Article 2 provide for that clarification of basic concepts. I offer all my congratulations to the restoring ministry for deciding to come to the National Assembly with a bill like this. War memorials are part of cultural historical heritage, it's part of our identity, but war memorials are and can also be significant places to visit tourists, and tourism as a branch of the economy since the takeover of the SNS authorities year after year has seen growth in the overall participation of GDP. Why is it important for Serbia to be politically but economically stable? Today, it is both in one sense and in another, thanks to the responsible exercise of power, an economically and politically stable country. It is important for Serbia to be an economically stable country and from the aspect of protecting those most vulnerable groups, and we know that wars also result in wartime military disabled people and that families of dead fighters remain. I must say that the Resorient Ministry, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs is a total budget, which was scheduled for 2017, 72% of the total implementation of that budget went to the rights of users who enjoy more laws, these funds and who are allocated to them. I must point out that through the Ministry of Labour, rehabilitation and treatment has been approved, in 2017, for 519 disabled military people and that there are also approved funds for 22 associations that cherish the tradition of the Liberation Wars, but also encourage social inclusion and wartime disabled and families of fallen fighters. Of course, funds for the work of these associations are given through a public call, in a completely transparent manner and of course also takes care of the spending of these funds through regular reporting by those who carry out project activities. I must point out that in the last four years, more has been done to rebuild war memorials than in the last 20 years together. Also, I must point out that, in the context of marking the Liberation Wars, the Republic of Serbia has, in 2017, had 14 state ceremonies, and I must also point out that the funds for the reconstruction and reconstruction of very important war complexes and war memorials were approved. On this occasion, I would point out the construction of the terrain around the Memorial in Vardište, otherwise the memorial mark is in Republika Srpska. Finally, I would conclude that war memorials should also be places of great historical hour for our children and of course, and Serbia is a place for a safe and safe future for both us and our generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41153	Thank you, colleagues. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41154	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on War Memorial, which establishes the meaning of certain terms used in this Act. Closer explanations have been made of terms whose meaning is not binding in any other regulation, and all of this for the purpose of proper application and understanding of the solutions contained in this law. For these reasons, their precise definition is needed. The amendment reads in Article 2. The bill adds the 2nd position -- the implementation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving the functioning of the judiciary. On the territory of the Great Plan municipality there are a large number of war memorials, monuments built to honor our ancestors, who gave their lives in the 1912-1918 Liberation Wars, the Balkan, World War I, as well as monuments built in honor of fallen fighters in World War II. In every village of the Municipality of the Great Plan, there is such a mention of the markings, and I spoke of it in the presentation of the previous amendment. I'd like to continue now. In the villages of Velika Oresje, Bresje, Milosevic, there are monuments that were erected by fallen fighters in World War II. In Lower Livadica there are such monuments to fallen fighters in the wars of 1912-1918. In the very center of the Great Plane, in the city park, there is a magnificent monument to fallen fighters during World War II. In the town of Markovac, in the center of the village, one across from the other, there are monuments of fallen fighters from the First and Second World War. In Lozovic, there is a mention of a crypt where 12 Soviet soldiers were buried, who died in October 1944 by liberating Lozovik from the Germans. In the town of Velika Plana, there is a monumental bust to the folk hero St. Mladenovic, and there is a mention of a screenmark with a list of fallen fighters in 1991-1999. About all these monuments local self-government takes full care of the old and maintains them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41155	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41156	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs, because of the important geostrategic position Nis has a troubled past. Many armies, peoples, and rulers each left their tracks in their own time. The cultural historical sights of the city of Nis and its surroundings are numerous. I'll only mention some of them, not diminishing the importance of others. A monument to the liberators of Nis at the centre of the city in King Milan Square marks the period of liberation wars against the Ottoman government and during World War I. The cell tower is a unique monument in the world, the cruelest, created as a result of the great battle on the Chegra. The tower was originally made up of 952 skulls, and today there are 58 skulls left, one that is assumed to belong to the army leader Stevan Sijlić. In 1833, the French poet Lamartin passed through Nis, saw the Celle Tower, and on the other hand, he said, quote: "Let the Serbs preserve this monument, he will teach their children what the independence of a nation is worth, showing them the price paid by their fathers." These words are written on a bronze plate, in French and Serbian, which is located in a chapel built in 1892 to protect the Cele Tower from further collapse. This frightening witness of the tumultuous history of Nis and human cruelty was created after the battle, the famous battle of the Chegra on May 31st, 1809. The tower of human skulls was erected on the way to Constantinople as a warning to those who raise rebellion. In the Serb people, however, such a gesture of Turks had an effect. On the hill of Cegru near Nis, where the famous Czech battle of the First Serbian uprising took place, there is a monument in memory of the brave soldiers and their commander, Stevan Siljelic, who died in this place by a far greater Turkish army. Furthermore, I will mention the Red Cross camp in Nis, the Red Cross concentration camp, today's memorial complex, February 12th, one of the concentration camps that established German occupation forces throughout Serbia in 1941, where a large number of Serbs, Roma and Jews died. Then, the Bubanj Memorial Park during World War II, this place was one of the largest sites in Yugoslavia, where it was shot between 10,000 and 15,000 people, three fists that symbolized a child, a woman and a man and represent rebellion and despite the enemy. There are numerous cultural historical monuments in Nis, as I said, that speak of the history of this city. Monuments to the victims of the 1999 NATO aggression. To mention, there is the fortress Banovina, the Office House, the Radio Nisa building, all of these are places where the history of the Serbian people was written. Nis is marked by rich history and centuries of struggle for freedom and survival and numerous historical buildings, monuments, monuments, monuments, records and memorials of witnesses, and we must adequately protect them in order to stay and survive. That is why I call on all MPs to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41157	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that there are no MPs here who are representatives of the former regime for one simple reason, the state's relationship to the memorials and the place of death, whether the Serb armies, whether members of Serbian nationality, are also a relationship to their own people and to their own state. As they looked after it, we saw it from the previous period, and in order to take care of it in the future, we also saw it from their discussions. They are willing to even deny the crimes and battles and freedom Serbia has. It seems to me in their exposure that the happiest would be if Serbia had lost all wars and lived under another state, under someone's occupation, as we had lived before in the past under the Turkish Empire. Unfortunately, I will return only a little bit to my presentation yesterday and today's event at the Council of Europe. I claimed that the Serbian army in World War I brought freedom to all nations of the decomposed Yugoslavia, but in order for new authorities in new countries to justify their crimes, Serbia and the Serb military must be declared aggressors. And today we have had one such situation in the Council of Europe, by Plenkovic, the prime minister of Croatia, who has no courage to face his people with the fact that in the 1990s members of the Croatian people killed their own citizens as well as in World War II. Until they accept such a fact, the true desire to reconcile Croatia with the Serb people will not be on the side of the Croats.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41159	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk ambassador, Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41160	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for decades the area of making features that shape historical memories has been unedited. Following the disintegration of the common state for military memorials and victims' places in Serbia, the laws of the 1960s and 1970s apply. This has created conditions for a chaotic state that lasts for 30, 40 years, and in the sense that we have developed different features without clearly established criteria, without precisely making decisions that make them rise, to whom they should be raised, to whom they should celebrate, or whose memories should be kept. It is precisely the essence of this law that the corrections of a decade of carelessness and a decade where there was no legal solution and where any local self-government could set up any monument so as not to account for what message the monument sets and gives to future generations. The adoption of this law will comprehensively regulate matter related to the maintenance and editing of war memorials. Ensuring the implementation of the provisions of this law is also achieved by prescribing appropriate penalties. The biggest newspaper to pass the bill is the responsibility of the ministry in charge of fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, to give consent to the rise of a new war memorial. It is also very important to define elements when a new war memorial is not allowed. A system like this will bring a uniform application that contributes to the improvement of respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, traditions, as well as the improvement of the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41161	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41162	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, just now in this afternoon's session because of the viewers who are monitoring the transmission to say that Article 2. The draft law on war memorials, in fact, clearly defines the meaning of certain concepts used in the law. The adoption of this law was necessary because it was necessary to regulate this area in a comprehensive manner. So the adoption of this law after 40 years has been our duty and obligation towards our tradition, according to our history and our people, because solving this problem with the pietate, according to our countries and the injuries among other things, is the basis for building a new and better future. This paper in the law, which stipulates that the competent ministry will be able to cultivate the traditions of wars, gives consent to the rise of a new war memorial. Personally, I think that perhaps the government, which works in a committed and responsible manner, all my colleagues have previously clearly illustrated our deaths, our memorials, from the Balkan wars, but we have to do one memorial dedicated to civilian casualties and that of NATO bombing 99. The local self-governments are appropriate to mention the victims of a tape bomb in Nis, Aleksinac, victims on a bridge in Varvarin, victims on a train marked, but in my opinion, it would have been useful because more than 2,000 civilian victims fell in a senseless NATO bombing. So that the ministry responsible for this is safe in a new way and giving the legal opportunity to open new memories should also be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41163	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Before I give my word to my colleague, Becic, just to say that the SNS Parliament Club has spent the time it belongs to him, so you only have time as an amendment applicant for two minutes. Here you go, colleague Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41164	Respected chairman, the implementation of this legislative solution requires certain budgets from the local, provinceal, republican budget. And, after the consolidation of the budget at all three levels of government, we can finally separate and allocate funds for war memorials. But because of the shameful attempts by the former regime and individual opposition leaders, Gilas, Jeremic and others, who do not choose funds to save their millions that they have collected through privatisation and abuse of budget funds, through the devasting of Serbia and the laundering of world's dirty money, through their NGOs and institutes. The desire to challenge instability in Serbia, through various failed protests, spreading false news and constructed kidnappings by journalists that require the MUP to single out huge resources, personnel and material and significant budgets for investigative actions. It is clear that all attacks at this time on President Vukic and his family are in the direction to weaken his attempts to make a huge contribution to Serbia and its citizens in continuing negotiations with Belgrade and Pristina. Those leaders must finally understand that they too have been seen by citizens that they should allow these funds to be channeled into childcare and such legal solutions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41165	Thank you, colleague Becic. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41166	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to Article 2. I have tabled an amendment to which a new position 2 is added and which further defines the law contained. It is not only the objective of realising the proposed law that the state administration works more effectively in the process of protecting, preserving, restoring existing and building new memorials, but also the moral obligation of each individual to the ancestors who gave their lives for their country. It is therefore necessary to record all war memorials in order to ensure that they are cared for as best and regulated by law as possible. The provision of a law laying down the competent authorities for these matters is important and will be implemented within the framework of the ministry of care for the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. So far, there has been no legal basis for recording war memorials in one place, a newspaper of the proposed additions to this law. This newspaper implies the co-operation of all bodies that possess any partial records of war memorials and this way will be easier to obtain data necessary, among other things, and for scientific and research works that will process this significant area. The realisation of this law allows a state programme to mark the anniversary of Serbia's historic events of liberation wars, which has been defined on the basis of respect for the need to preserve a worthy memory of the victims of war participants in the past. The implementation of this programme is within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and all projects related to reconstruction, recovery and reconstruction of war memorials in co-operation with the relevant cultural monuments institutions planned for 2017 have been successfully implemented. It is planned to continue to support these projects in 2018. So... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41167	Thank you. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Savkic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41168	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on war memorials – item 2 is added: "The realisation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions." The protection of working memorials is carried out by the ministry of the local self-government unit depending on where the memorial is located, as well as by monument protection institutions. When it comes to regular maintenance, the obligation of local self-government for war memorials located in their territory and the Ministry of Defence to maintain regularly within military facilities is prescribed. The bill also provides for a way of overcoming the problem that arises when a local self-government unit is not in a financial capacity to ensure regular maintenance of the facilities. At that time, the minister shall, at the proposal of the competent institution for the protection of cultural monuments, arrange the way and the level of participation in the costs of regular maintenance. On the other hand, the competent ministry is costing investment maintenance of war memorials in the country and abroad. As regards war memorials of foreign countries located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the jurisdiction of foreign countries has been established as a rule, while the international agreement can also agree otherwise. In this way effective protection of war memorials, enabling the smooth work of organs, and most importantly, prevents the collapse and damage of war memorials that are a significant element of our national identity. In view of all these facts, the implementation of the War Memorial Bill results in a positive effect and contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted in Article 2. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41169	The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Miloevich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41170	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 2. I propose that Article 2 be added, which reads: "The realisation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector." The realisation of this law involves the taking of numerous activities necessary for the protection, regular and investment maintenance, editing, removal and financing of war memorials. The Republic of Serbia is on a path of comprehensive development that will not be stopped and cannot be stopped. This involves a free competition and creating additional conditions for the further development of the private sector. As a country that wants to become the most developed tourist in the region, in addition to what our natural resources and urban or rural tourism offer, in a significant place and the sea offer should also be a proud and glorious history of Serbia. This is a potential that we should present to people who want to visit our country and are numerous examples of highly visited destinations and localities right from the field of war memorials. From the above, I believe that the development of the area we are talking about and the improvement of the private sector is closely linked and that, with respect for the glorious history and ancestors, we are not only honoring the greats, but also raising the reputation of the state, presenting to tourists the proud past and creating the opportunity to improve the entire economic situation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41171	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Mother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41172	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected ministers with associates, each of us came from one of the 174 local self-governments, as many as there are in Kickinda, and we are witnessing that there are a number of war memorials in each of our local self-governments. If we take the information given in the bill that there are between four and six thousand memorials in Serbia and we take an average of five thousand memories, if we divide it into 174 local self-governments, we come up with data that 28-29 war memorials per unit of local self-government, and if we take it as six thousand, then we come up with data that it is 34 or 35 war memorials per unit of local self-government. Whether it's small or much, it's hard to give a grade. But given our history only in the last century, where we fought six wars, it's probably not something big. Also, we're witnessing that war memorials in local self-government are in a different position. Some people take up a place that really belongs to them, while others are kind of abandoned. For this reason, I believe that the introduction of records, mandatory records that will be conducted by units of local self-government, can contribute to the development of the efficiency of local self-government by re-enrolling these war memorials, by giving them the attention they need again and by knowing whether some of them need to be invested, in regular maintenance or investment maintenance, and that each war memorial gets the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41173	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lint, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41174	Croatian military, paramilitary, police forces committed numerous crimes against Serb civilians and prisoners during the war in Croatia and after Croatian criminal acts in western Slavonia, Otkos, Orkan, Papuk, then, after and during the crimes actions of Maslenica, Miljevaci plato, Medak pocket, Flash and Storm. I'm going to point out the crimes in one of the province's municipalities in particular now. It's the area of the then Gracac municipality. In the area of the then municipality of Gracac, during and after Croatia's criminal action, the 146 Serb civilians died. In the area of the town of Gračac – 32 civilians, the village of Kijani – 18 persons, the village of Ljubović – one face, the village of Mazin – eight faces, the village of Gubačeva Polje – two faces, the village of Brubno – three faces, the village of Cerovac – three faces, the village of Deringaj – four faces, the village of Glubovo – one face, the village of Grab – two faces, the village of Raduc – three faces, the village of Ploča – 12 faces, the village of Jovani – two faces, the village of Vrebac – two faces, the village of Prljevo – four faces, the village of Pribudić – one face, the village of Rasticjevo – one face, the village of Rudopolje – two faces, the village of Sudvor – one face, the village of Otrić – two faces, the village of Palanka – two faces, the village of Štika – five faces, the village of Štikada, the village of Tomingaj – two faces, the village of Tomingaj – two faces, the village of Popin – the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of Pop – the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of Š. Our countryman, Stevan Veselinovic, who is of the Gracac municipality's birthplace, submitted a request to the war crimes prosecutor's office in 2006 to prosecute these crimes. Still until today, our D.A. hasn't done anything. I appeal to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office to finally launch an action to prosecute crimes in the Gracac municipality as well as in the whole of Croatia against Serb civilians and prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41175	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zvonimir Djokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41176	Thank you. In a NATO aggression that began on 24 March 1999, due to the alleged humanitarian disaster in Kosovo and Metohija, 19 NATO countries, the alliance without the UN Security Council's approval, attacked the then SRJ. During the 78 days of bombing, 2,500 people were killed, including 500 civilians, including 79 children, and about 12,500 people were wounded. During the bombing, 1,150 combat planes participated, 1,300 cruise missiles were fired, and 2,300 air strikes were carried out on 995 buildings across the country, using ammunition with impoverished uranium. 37,000 cluster bombs were used, 420,000 missiles fired, with a total mass of 22,000 tonnes. A total of 25,000 different facilities were damaged, of which 14 airports, 18 kindergartens, 69 schools, 20 health homes, 19 hospitals, 910 commercial infrastructure facilities were destroyed, 38 bridges were destroyed, 44 bridges were damaged, 470km of roads and 595km of tracks were disabled. One third of the country's energy system was destroyed in the bombing. The total material damage was estimated at tens of billions of dollars. And, in short, all the victims of this criminal aggression of NATO alliances must be reminded from year to year, as long as we exist, of ceremonies such as the Day of Remembrance of the victims of NATO aggression held every 24 March throughout the country. It must also remind us of the Day of Remembrance of the civilian victims of NATO aggression on May 7th for the bombing of civilians with cluster bombs in Nis, as well as every anniversary of the battle at Kosharam on June 14th in honor of heroes from Koshar and their heroic struggle against KLA terrorists.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41177	Thank you, colleague Djokic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Pantovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41178	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the Serbian people have often been targeted by various conquerors during their long and difficult history who wanted to impose their power on this Serbian geospace, but each time so far the free spirit of our people has won and every time so far our country has risen after these difficult times. In all these deaths, our people had little understanding by the great powers and the international community, but there were also those who always stood by our people in those difficult moments. That bright example is friendly Russia. Today, when we discuss war memorials, we should mention that in our country there are many graves and monuments of brave Russian soldiers who, along with our shoulders, have freed Serbia. Serbia did not forget the help of brother Russia in World War I. Today in Belgrade, we have a magnificent monument to Russian Emperor Nikolai who entered World War I because of Serbia. Also, we have a memorial park for Belgrade's freedomists from World War II and many other monuments. Serbia has not forgotten Russia's help in recent history. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija, UNESCO, is a shameful British resolution and precisely because Serbia is not forgetting today bravely resists all attacks for the West to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation. The state today takes care of memories, maintains them, and does not allow them to fall into oblivion and cultivate friendly relations with those states that have always been with us in difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41179	National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vujadinović's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41180	Thank you, Chairman. Article 2 defines concepts that later appear throughout this law, including the notion of a dead person. You heard it in the debate yesterday and today an attempt to insult those victims we had in the last century, setting some sort of a thesis whether the wars we won, lost, etc., I must say that all those who were listed here are actually winners unlike those who are trying to offend them today. Insults are all they have left. Fortunately, they don't have the power to continue to pursue these and those, i.e. Their descendants and that's the only weapon in their hands today, fortunately. I remembered a time when it was working and closing, their persecution, if you'd end up killing. No, it's not a hard word. I will remind you of the case of Vlajko Stojiljkovic, the minister of police from 1997 to 2000, and later the MP in this respected home. After a series of persecutions, shaggings, humiliations to him and all those who followed, I say, Serbia's defence policy in those 1990s, he committed suicide in front of the parliament building. It was just one symbolic thing to say, showing up where those who gave what was most valuable to this country came from. Vlajko then left a suicide note saying that the economy was being destroyed, that we were selling economic resources, that we were destroying a police organization, that we were campaigning against all of the Serb people's civilization achievements, and we were witnessing all of that. We are witnessing other events today, thank God, raising monuments to police officers in Belgrade. Recently, the prime minister, the police minister, you Minister Djordjevic also attended, erected a monument, discovered a monument to the dead members of the MUP, and this amendment is actually just to say one more sign that we will not forget them, but also forget everything that happened to us in the previous period by those who... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41181	Time, thank you. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Yokic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41182	Gentlemen, we've passed the law, we'll rebuild the memorials, but what's our problem? Our problem is the application of this law and how we will preserve, maintain, improve these memories. To do that, I'm in favour of the so-called so-called. personal responsibility. I'm not for that amorphous group responsibility. I particularly like that this law highlights the minister's responsibility, that the minister must be responsible for implementing these decisions and members of this law. That's why I'm saying that local self-government is also in charge of having local self-government in charge of a particular public enterprise, that the public company knows which person is responsible and that these big memorials have their own guards. We have to do what we do to preserve. So it's easy to do, the leg's harder to keep, because in 2000, we've convinced ourselves, that's when they wanted to destroy everything, to rob everything, that we simply as a people with all our markings disappear. That's why we have to learn, and we can't forget what we're doing right now, what we're doing right now, is we have to do this this way, which means establishing personal individual responsibilities for all the laws that we're making. I say, in particular, I focus on the ministry, or the minister, having to supervise, check the decisions made in local self-government, and local self-government on public enterprises, and public companies on workers, and then at all times, you need to know who's responsible for what. It's the only way to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41183	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41184	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, the respect of war memorials is certainly an old culture, traditions and the history of a nation. War memorials are actually stories of major Serbian victories and major Serbian casualties. No major Serbian war victory was achieved without the great loss of the generation that was ready to suffer for Serbia's freedom. When it was killed, which is the biggest price paid, the economic cost of loss of material resources was also paid at that time, but Serbia has the disaster economically not only during the war. Serbia also suffers from the wrong economic decisions in calm times. From 2008 to 2012, if you start from the macroeconomic parameter most frequently pointed out, job losses, Serbia suffers a huge loss, 400,000, 375 thousand, 260 thousand per year means a lack of jobs in Serbia during the time period. If you look at Serbia today, then there has been no more suffering since 2015. In 2017 alone, 75,000 new jobs were opened. With the unemployment rate at 14.4% in 2008, it reached 25.5%. Serbia is now at a 12% unemployment rate. What needs to be pointed out specifically is that the number of employees is growing. With 48.6% of Serbia has, practically, historic unemployment. It should be pointed out, of course, that the level of the inactive population is dropping. Practically, new jobs are being opened in new companies, the consequences of foreign direct investment and the growth of small companies. All this is possible because the government of the Republic of Serbia respects macroeconomic policy and leads it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41185	National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41186	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, besides continuing investment in health, the Municipality of Nova Varoš is working very actively to create new ideas and new projects aimed at numerous national competitions. Most of these projects have received green light, so over 40,000,000 dinars have been approved over the past few months. Nearly 24,000,000 dinars have been approved for the production of project-technical documentation, and then for the expansion and completion of Duke Petar Bojovic's market, which includes the raising of the monuments of Novovaroshan killed in Balkan and world wars. The Serbian government has also provided funds of 30,000,000 dinars to pave the way through Javor, which connects the municipalities of Nova Varoš and Ivanica, i.e. from the monuments to Major Ilic, to the monument in Calipol, where 140 years since the end of the Javor War in 1878 is marked on July 12th this year. A memorial tomb in Javor buried 7,000 Serb soldiers who died in Calipolje in July 1876, and a monument to Major Mihajl Ilic was erected among the humvees, who was in command during the fight and who was responsible for the victory of the Serb army in Javor. This event is marked this year under the auspices of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and is included in the calendar of events of national importance. The realisation of all these projects is an indication that the Serbian government is pursuing the overall development of the state and raising the standard of living of all its citizens, not forgetting the heroes who gave life for the better future of its descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41187	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41188	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, overall development involves investment in both the economy and health care, and tourism, infrastructure, but also cultural and historical heritage. The government's progress results on Serbia's progress say Serbia is on the right track, and for this reason I have submitted an amendment. I come from Toplice, from the municipality of Kurzumli, and I am proud to point out that Toplice has always given the best heroes, but, unfortunately, so many victims. This is witnessed by a large number of monuments that we have on the territory of the entire Toplice, as well as on the territory of the Municipality of Kursumlia. In honor of the fallen fighters of Kursumli, there is a monument in the city park, which was set up by Turks back in 1878, a monument that was erected in 1896 with voluntary contributions and the contribution of King Alexander I. Then we have a monument to members of the Army, police, but also to civilians, victims of NATO aggression, also in the city park, and the monument was discovered on 28 August 2000 on the day of Kursumli municipality. Then, a monument in the village of Playground to the liberators from the period from 1912 to 1918, which I spoke of yesterday. Then we have a monument to the fallen fighters of the Warm Uprising in the village of Pussycat. This number of monuments not only in Kursumlia, but in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, says that we need the War Memorial Act and how much we need it. That Serbia is taking care of its descendants is talking about the law we are discussing today, and that it also tells its successors all the measures of the government that we took in the previous period. I will take the opportunity to mention it, and my colleague Marinkovic mentioned in the debate in principle, that we are opening up a furniture factory, which will employ 100 workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41189	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krivokapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41190	Thank you. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted Amendment 2 to Article 2 of this Law, which adds an additionally defined view to the said article, and it reads: "The realisation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to undeveloped municipalities." In this article, as we can see, a closer explanation of the terms whose meaning is not bindingly established in another regulation, but for the purposes of proper application and understanding of the solutions contained in this law, their precise definition is necessary. It's precisely the terms that are essentially related to the matter that is subject to the law. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a Law on War Memorial adoption, aware of the importance of memorial monuments and how important it is for these sites to be maintained and marked with dignity, as they also warn. We have to keep in mind that unless there's a memory culture, then there's a possibility that a mistake can happen again. The Serbian people and the Serb soldier characterise the free spirit, continuity in Serbian genes to fight without mourning their life for freedom. What our soldiers experienced from the Battle of Kosovo and the Balkan wars, to hell in the war in Kosovo and Metohija, where NATO beastly attacked a small country, where there was something indescribable in the history of mankind. I can't help but mention that the mother lost three sons of Milic, two at the Kosharam battlefield, and the third quickly passed away, reminding us of the Milic Brothers' Square in Kosovo Mitrovica. So, for all things, it's very important to protect and maintain the existing war memorials regularly. One way is certainly also memorial tourism, which can significantly contribute to their preservation, but also to the overall reputation of the country through greater visibility of a certain period of our history. Serbia's ability to present itself in this segment is high. It is precisely because of all of this, that Article 2 needs to be added to Article 2 which will further define that the implementation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to undeveloped municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41191	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Parezanovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41192	Thank you. I think that the state of Serbia in the past few years marks the great days, the holidays, the jubilee on I'd say never more dignified, never louder way, and I think it's important because those days are talking about our liberating, our anti-fascist character. I think that any citizen of Serbia can be proud that the state of Serbia marks large jubilee and that best says the number of citizens present at large events, such as. Statehood Day. On the other hand, I think that the state of Serbia is paying a great price for silenced for decades on major crimes and terrible World War II events, i.e. from the time of Jasenovac. Although I can partly understand why it was during the communist era, I always wonder what prevented politicians from speaking clearly after 2000 about the Serb deaths at the camp in Jasenovac? Were they too busy robbing privatisations or perhaps too afraid of what someone outside Serbia would say about it? But that's why the state of Serbia is clearly talking about it today. Today, in the middle of New York, there is talk of the loss of Serbs in Jasenovac, because we want every man in the world to know what the Serbs have suffered and what kind of sufferings and what injustices the Serbs have survived in World War II. Also, the assembly majority has decided to form a commission to investigate developments during NATO bombings. Although we are leading a policy of integration, not a policy of conflict, we are not afraid to fight for the truth and we do not care what someone else outside Serbia says about it. This was brought by this congregation majority, no congregation majority had done so before 2012. Also, these legal solutions, and I'm bringing the end, are very important, because all previous legal solutions are decades old and a few decades old and instead of all of us supporting this law, some people are...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41193	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41194	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, the War Memorial Act addresses issues of importance for protection, regular maintenance, investment maintenance, editing, removal and financing of war memorials. It should be noted that the Republic of Serbia has always waged defensive wars, and that in these wars, unfortunately, it died in World War I, Balkan wars, World War II, wars of the 1990s and nothing caused by bombings by more than three million people, most Serbs. From these wars remains a large number of war and peacetime people who have established various associations with the aim of protecting and helping these people, making life easier for them. For example, by providing eased and free parking, reserved parking places in front of their public institutions and buildings in which disabled people live, building a ramp for disabled people in cars in as many places as possible, removing architectural barriers that allow them to move, allowing them to use cultural and sports and entertainment facilities under more favourable conditions, etc. One of these associations, the largest associations is the Association of War and Peacetime Military Disabilities of Serbia, which I spoke about yesterday. Today I will talk about the Association of Persons with Disabilities and Veterans of the Wars Novi Sad "Milos Obilić". It is one of the largest associations in Novi Sad and in the entire Vojvodina, as well as many others. Among other things, I have to mention the Association for the Protection of the Rights of Fighters in Nis, the Alliance of Veterans Associations and War Disabilities from the Fatherly Wars of the Republic of Serbia in Koseric, the Association of Armed Conflict Participants in the area of the former Yugoslavia of Novi Sad, the Association of Veterans, the War Disabled Wars of the 90s of the Zlatibor County of Uzica and many others. Why? It's a good thing there's a record, because this way we can help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41195	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41196	Dear Vice President, by applying this law, we will greatly contribute to the realization of the moral and patriotic feelings of our students and students. If Sasa Jankovic, called Sale Prangi, possessed moral-patriot feelings, and did not, I would not quote, that Serbia has yet to prove that Gracanica and Decani monasterys are a Serbian, complete quote. Dear People's MPs, it can only be said by someone who has completely lost his mind. If Sasa Jankovic, called prangi, had lost his mind, his party colleague, academician Dusan Teodorovic, who said, I quote, never during my long career in the country and abroad, had made such a mistake in assessing the working skills and moral code as Sasa Jankovic, finished the quote. You see, honourable Members of the people, it's about one moral zeroe, no working qualities. Nothing better was his colleague Dusan Petrovic, who was the minister of agriculture, and within a year he had 500,000 cows slaughtered. It's about people who are freelenders, lesbians, axes, and luftigozes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41197	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41198	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable ministers, when we talk about the protection of war memorials and regular maintenance, we recognize a great role, alongside the ministries, and units of local self-government. With regard to the protection by units of local self-government dealing with regular maintenance, the bill recognises the role of duty in ensuring the immediate environment of the war memorial. As regular maintenance includes works carried out in order to protect, and in the part relating to the orderly maintenance of fences, access roads, trails and other facilities, the role of local self-government and responsibility in implementing the War Memorial Act are highlighted. It is the local self-government that is required to provide the proper infrastructure of a war memorial, to maintain it, to make sure that there are no inappropriate activities, not to allow the construction of inappropriate facilities nearby. Therefore, it is the obligation of the state and responsible leadership to protect such places, to safeguard tradition, to protect cultural heritage which is important for the future of our people, and not to allow, unfortunately, how some work, to use such areas of the famous places and places of destruction for personal benefit, but responsible leadership, by coming to the power of the SNS, to analyse in detail every segment important for the better future of our people, and to provide citizens with a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41199	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Grubor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41200	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the main objective of this bill is to define the responsibility, strengthen the responsibility and efficiency of local self-government units and other institutions and individuals, as well as to create the necessary conditions for the protection of the cultural heritage associated with the wartime. A system like this will contribute to improving respect for human rights, national and religious feelings, traditions, as well as improving Serbia's tourist offer. It is unfortunately rich in a large number of memorials to the large number of victims of the Serb people from the time of the First Serbian Uprising, First and Second World War. One of them is the memorial skeleton in Draginjac, a village near Loznica, which testifies to a mass crime committed against civilians then occupied by Serbia, when, during one day, on October 14, 1941, revenge was committed by shooting 2,950 civilians. In the fall of 1941, the Vermacht units went on the offensive with the aim of restoring lost territory in western Serbia. A criminal expedition headed for Krupanj, but on the bridge over the Adriatic, near the place called Gajic Stan, near Draginjac was stopped and broken by the Partizan squad. The German occupation forces, in retribution for this defeat from Draginjec and the surrounding area, collected and then shot civilians in several places in Draginjac, and the youngest victim was only three days old. Afterwards, they were buried in common tombs that were arranged and marked after the war. In 1961, all remains were transferred to a common memorial-oster outside the village marked with a granite monument of seven meters, author of Ostoja Gordanić...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41201	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41202	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, and today we are discussing important laws, laws that give us the opportunity to remember our history, to remind ourselves of the importance of maintaining tradition, but also to remind our children not to forget all those ancestors who gave their lives for Serbia's freedom. Otherwise, we Serbs can proudly talk about our history. As a Kruševljanka, I can say that in Krusevec we have a lot of war memorials, but also that the state of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as local self-government are taking care of all those monuments that were set in the previous period, but also of the setting up of new monuments. I would like to point out that in Kruševec during World War II, many people lost their lives and that a memorial centre, or a site called Freedom and that the city is really paying special attention and taking care of this monument complex. Otherwise, there are two amphitheaters in the central part of this monumental complex, and every year there are various activities to remember all those people who gave their lives for freedom. In voting day, we will support a set of these laws, so I call on my colleagues to vote on these good laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41203	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41204	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, today we are talking about a proposal for a War Memorial Act. So our country has suffered a great deal throughout history and in this country every inch is a war memorial, but what is very important is that our common obligation is to repay in an adequate way all of our ancestors who have laid down their lives for our freedom, for the release of this country. I will also remind you of a quote from the anthological section "The Book of Milutin", where one of the actors in the book says – the people must respect the bones of their ancestors, there is no safer basis than the bones of the ancestors, at least for us Serbs. It's a sentence that definitely says a lot about our people and the suffering we've been through for centuries. What I'm also trying to say today is that it's really an honor and a great pleasure to have the memory of the Iron Regiment Park in the city of Prokuplje, whose members got 149 Karadjordje's stars with swords, 10 legions of honor, it's a French medal, and six Russian crosses, it's the most Russian medal. I will also remind the People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that members of this famous Second Infantry regiment "Knjiz Michaelo" were also Serbian heroine Milunka Savik, who was characterized by bravely chasing herself against large groups of enemies, then nurse Florence Ans, a British nurse who was the first Serbian officer in our army...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41205	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41206	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The Nis Military Hospital as a historical-medical anti-thete belongs to the oldest and most respected medical and military institutions in Serbia. The military hospital was founded in the 19th century, on January 11th 1878 immediately after Nis was released from Turks and by 1881 was the only hospital in Nis. In the first place, due to the large number of wounded and patients, the hospital was in two locations, one of which was close to the Cell Tower, where today the magnificent building is also a memorial for the birth of health care and medical visitation. From the time of its establishment to the proposal of the Serbian Army's Chief of Staff, Dr Vladan Djordjevic, the next top command of the Serbian army from the existing Turkish hospitals in Nis is the Moravska Permanent Hospital, which has passed a long and thorny path through nine wars, led by the Serb people, and has started and developed healthcare and health institutions not only to the health end but also to the entire region. In 1900, I must once again make it clear that in Nis they are a special institution under the patronate and for the purposes of the military hospital forms a preventive medical institution of the Royal Military Paster Institute, which was tasked with organising preventive medical protection of military and population members. It is started with the production of the vaccine, i.e. the vaccine and the first vaccination against major goddesses and other infectious diseases. Dr. Mihailo Markovic will perform first calf stuttering on July 7th 1900 to obtain animal lymphatics for vaccination against the great goddesses. As early as November, 19000 vaccines were stored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41207	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41208	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, this is my second amendment to the bill to another member. I submitted the amendment because the war memorialized an important segment of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia. And it will become part of a quality and attractive tourist offer. Tourism is a branch that directly affects growth in economic growth. Why doesn't most opposition MPs understand our amendments, we're asking ourselves here the MPs of power? I'll list a few basic reasons. They shut down factories during the government, and we open them up, they lead the country to bankruptcy and budget deficits, and now we get to surpluses. They've had an economic downturn, and we've got economic growth, they've increased the number of unemployed and we're reducing the number of unemployed. I've given you the basic reasons for their lack of understanding of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41209	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41210	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'll pick up where Sonja Vlahovic left off. It's sad to look at those empty benches against us. They had a chance to do anything, even these memories to fix it, to recover. Like I said, I'll pick up where I left off. When you take the Ibar Clissur and leave the city of the Kings, follow the village of Konarevo, where you will see a beautiful pyramid in the country's cemetery. All of you who passed the Ibar Highway have probably seen that building. It is a monument that once an unknown donor made, or gave money to be made. It was made by architect Spasoje Krunic and dedicated to children, not only to Serbian children, but to children from all over the former Yugoslavia who were at an orphanage in Matarusko Banja from 1942 to 1947. That orphanage could only enter a child who had no one of his own. I will continue this valley of the century, through the valley of the lilac. In the village of Cerje on Wednesday between the King and Raska, all of you who traveled to the Ibar Klisur saw a beautiful monument of a Serb soldier facing the south. In 1930, a group of workers and engineers of the state-owned company for construction and technology "Labor" from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia built the monument with their voluntary work. For eighty-five years, no one approached the monument, or touched it, or did what they did, but the individuals shot at it, served it as a shooting range. In 2015, the Department for the Protection of Cultural Monuments of the City of Kralje renovated, fixed the monument, brought it to its proper state, as I mentioned earlier, which no one had looked at for 70 years until it was done by the Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41211	National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Manojlovich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines the introductory provisions of Article 2 of this Act. In explaining the first amendment, I was talking about the economic memory complexes that the previous government had left to remind us of her, the vastly closed factories. Fortunately, Serbia today is a proud country, one that can remember, and its people to judge and judge, and that is why today we are in this room in this way. The Princess Milica, the ruler and the enlightener, who in their own way gave up all previous authorities, returns to Kruševac after six and a half centuries thanks to the initiative of Mr Bratislav Gasic and these authorities. Also, the town of Kruševac has made appropriate decisions, and the city commission has approved an already existing idea solution for a monument intended for the victims of military, police and reserve members from 1991 to 1999. As one of my predecessors said, we must forgive, forget not to forget, and many have suffered to preserve what some have stolen by 2012. They've taken the ideals. It's our duty to dedicate the memories to them. They've taken the living from us. It's our duty to remind them of that. They've taken away from the unborn generation. It's our duty for them to never feel it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41213	Thank you, colleague Manojlovich. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41214	Thank you, Chairman. On the proposal for a Law on War Memorial, I submit an amendment to Article 2 in the sense of adding Article 2 which reads - the realisation of this law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rule of law. The proposed law meets the necessary conditions for the protection of our cultural heritage related to wartimes. By editing and maintaining war memorials, we cultivate traditions for future generations, because besides languages, letters, history, customs and beliefs, and immovable cultural heritage is one of the identification codes of each nation. Thanks to Serbian associations and associations of other countries in which there are memorials, a large number of Serbian memorials have been restored, a number of monuments and monuments have been built on which numerous delegations and individuals lay their garners and flowers. As a fine example of caring for these memorials, I would point out the work of the Association of Serbs in Slovakia, where it is, after Zeitinlik in Greece, the largest tomb of Serbs outside the country. Slovakia, Serbia's friendly country, should express great gratitude for the concern of Serbian memorials on its soil. Such examples are also followed by Serbia, guarding the military and civilian cemetery of other countries. Serbia has the most Russian memorials, as a large number of Russian volunteers and soldiers participated in Serbia's freedom struggles. There are three Russian monuments in the territory of the city of Vranj. However, all memorials, regardless of whose, should contribute to the establishment of good neighbourly alliances and friendships between the peoples and countries of Europe, with the goal of never repeating the wars and suffering of the people again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41215	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41216	Honored chairman, Minister Djordjevic, fellow MPs, the amendment to the 2nd War Memorial Law provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues across the street think our amendments are pointless. No, they're not, we have something to say, to explain the positive side of the law that first held this authority responsible for all issues of importance for war memorials in the Republic of Serbia. I must say, by applying this law, there will be no additional costs. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. All those costs are provided for under the existing rules governing this area. A positive effect can also be measured by immaterial values, such as the state's concern, a dignified memory of the dead through the protection of war memorials. The solutions provided for in this law will affect all state bodies dealing with the protection, maintenance, arrangement and integration of war memorials, and this ministry responsible for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, the local self-government unit, the Foreign Ministry, or the territorially competent diplomatic consular representations of the Republic of Serbia for Serbian war memorials outside the borders of our country, and such memorials are located in more than 40 countries of the world. Each of these memorials, wherever they are, will be except for the pitetite, as well as a tourist-visited facility, and thus the tourist dinar will also affect the growth of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Each of these war memorials will also be used for educational purposes, by organizing school trips, our children will be able to learn everything about our glorious past from little feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41217	Thank you. The People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bagby, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41218	Dear Chairman, esteemed Ministers with Associates, fellow Members of the People, I have proposed an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on war memorials with the aim of putting the smart amendment on the need to cultivate antifascism and freedom traditions, because fascism was and remained the greatest evil humanity has ever encountered. Fascism is an evil that was defeated nearly 7.5 decades ago, but has not been completely destroyed, an evil that has been trying to revive itself over the past three decades and return to the political scene, both in the countries of the region and beyond. In recent years, we have been facing numerous attempts to end history, attempts to declare the liberators criminals, and testified traitors are criminals to abolize and write aside the winners. So today, we have had the opportunity to hear that we sincerely respect the politics of Dimitri LJotic, a convicted traitor and war criminal, a man whose followers helped a German occupier commit a terrible crime in the Kragujevci Forests. He called several times today, Obradovic, communists and partisans, more specifically those who freed us from fascists and their servants, called them and condemned them for crimes, but in no word did he remember condemning the bloody crimes of his political role model Dimitri Ljotic and his executioners. No lie by Boška Obradovic will be able to change what we must be proud of, and that is the fact that Serbs are one of the nations with the strongest and longest anti-fascist tradition, a people who had two anti-fascist movements, a people who must not forget the truth of the struggle of their ancestors, the truth which is only one and which, because of not one policy and not one ideology, and at least the Ljotic people, followed by Bosko Obradovic, cannot change, nor end, and the truth is, however much the Bosko Obradovic bothered, that the Serbian people through the National Liberation Army and the Partizan squad of Yugoslavia were the fourth conquering power of the world, and this was recognized by all the countries of the winners in World War II, and the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom and America. The truth is, as much as Bosca Obradić bothered, that the Serbian people in World War II for freedom fought most under the red five-point star, one part, because he truly believed in the idea of a better and fairer world that after the war would bring this five-point and red banner, under which they fought and died, and the other part, even though he really didn't understand any ideologies at all, fought under five-point because their brothers Russians fought under it, but also because he recognized that sign as the strength that provides the greatest and strongest resistance to fascist power and evil. The fact that this historic period of the anti-fascist struggle of the Serb people marked and pointless fraternizing conflict cannot and must not reduce the heroism and sacrifice of all those who fell as sincere anti-fascists, regardless of the sign and uniform they wore, such as the crimes committed in the name of any ideology should not be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41219	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of Chapter II, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41220	Thank you. After this law, i.e. in the course of the application of this law, many Serbian heroes will be left without a grave or a white one. I guess that's our destiny, but it's good to make sure it's as little as possible, and as many of those war memorials we should be proud of and who we should cherish. Here's an example of Loznica, I don't know if there's anyone here who doesn't know that Loznica with Banja Kovac is the first freed city from fascist Germany in all of Europe, and that Loznica was released on 31 August 1941, and Loznica was released by the Chetnik commander and Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misita, with a group of his Chetniks and a group of passwords who joined them there. Imagine that to this day no street in Loznica bears its name and that neither state nor local self-government has ever done anything to mark the tomb of Joy of Misity. The Serbian Radical Party, with great pains, which we had since the coalition partners then, built the Veselin Misiti monument and we went every year, we will continue to, of course, on 31 August to place a wreath on Misit's grave, but only two years ago have people from local self-government started to come, and before that, from the state level and from the level of local self-government, no one ever came. So much for the government's relationship to such important things and to these great people and great names. (President: I thank my colleague Radeta. Here, I'm done. No wonder you're not able to find any Mezu Omerovic, let alone do something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41221	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. At the title of Chapter II, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41222	More than 6,000 cemeterys of Serb soldiers who died in the country's wars are located in more than 50 countries around the world. Mr. Minister, until this law was passed, I'd say the state wasn't seriously involved in this matter. What counterpart Laketic was saying, indeed, in 2018, that a monument should be erected to the Iron regiment, and thank God that someone thought of it, but none of what the state needs to do outside Serbia's territory has done systematically. If so, it is an example that 75 grave sites scattered from Bitola to Kymakcalan are there today, and that in 2014, when a hundredth anniversary was to be marked from the beginning and do not forget, the great role of Russia, which saved Serbia, which suffered the most, but when the Russian army, when Emperor Nikolai II, provided all the brotherly assistance of Russia's mother, the largest Orthodox country, and its greatest friend. So, to this day, we haven't done anything like the state in that job at that location. Yesterday I was talking about some places on Corfu. As possible, then, Mr. Minister, that we expect something only from the adoption of this law, when there is no action through the media, through state institutions that Serbian children are going on a trip to Kajmakhalan. Mrs. Radeta spoke of her child's involvement, probably that there are among you, too, descendants, here are colleagues Blago and others. But imagine you are sending your children on a field trip somewhere else, and they are not going to visit that site of brave Serb soldiers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41223	On Chapter II, the name Glava II and Article 3 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Jovan Jovanovic put together the title of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Radojićic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41224	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed to be a member of the 3rd. The bill changes and reads – a council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, it is formed to give an opinion on the proposal to edit the war memorial and remove the war memorial, in the next text of the council, because this wording of the council is more precise, more comprehensive, i.e. better defined the function and way of forming the council, and we believe that this amendment should therefore be accepted. A council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars has a very important function, as it is directly dependent on editing and removing war memorials. In previous discussions, we have listed only some of the mentions of features and monuments in Macedonia, which are in very poor condition, which for various reasons and circumstances have not been taken into account and which require reconstruction and recovery. Through the next discussion under the amendments to Article 4. The bill, we will talk more about the very composition of the council and solutions of the SRS for the composition of the council, which we have proposed, will certainly take more care of the protection of Serbian memorials.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41225	I thank my colleague Nikolic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41226	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, Lonely Minister Djordjevic, we have seen that proposals for editing or removing war memorials can be submitted by state authorities, authorities of territorial autonomy and units of local self-government, legal and physical persons. The terms and procedures of the arrangements are also prescribed, i.e. the construction of new war memorials, but these conditions are as if they were a simple building facility. The elements to be defined when and who is allowed to raise a monument, the war memorial must be very condensed with the guarantees of certain organs. On this plan cannot stand our and their victims, as my esteemed colleague, Nejo Jovanovic, said well yesterday, because human lives were equally valuable in terms of terms. One practical question for the government -- who will hold a monument to the former president and the Hague-based victim, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, if that unit of local self-government refuses to do so for political reasons? To whom does Slobodan Milosevic, the town of Pogorevc, the state of Serbia, the SPS or the family belong? I have to make a complaint to the SRS about this law, which is how we conduct a public debate. You have set up a public hearing in the framework period from 31 December to 20 January. If we know that a few days of New Year's Eve are a celebration, then a few days of Christmas celebration, then a Orthodox New Year, how many days to conduct this public debate? I don't think it's enough that you pointed out on the Ministry's website.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41227	Thank you. By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41228	Dear Chairman, I would first of all like to support my colleague Dubravko Bojic's amendment from the SRS parliamentary group, as well as the other amendments to this parliamentary group that are absolutely on track to what we wanted to say to the Minister of our amendments. In particular, in this Article 3, we felt that membership should be extended in this council for the care of the liberation traditions and representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church, because I really don't think there's any reason that the injured SPC, which has always been with its people in camps and in refugee and all other tortures, is not someone who will take care of all these war memorials, and how many priests and monks of SPC died in the 20th century alone. So, I think there's been a major breach here and I'm asking you just to pay attention to that. Also, I would like to remind you that you have not answered me, Mr. Minister, to a very important question -- are the Serb people's sites on the premises of the former Yugoslav republics also covered by the plan of future war memorials? So, I mean all the places of the Serbian people's suffering from Slovenia, through Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So will we, as a state of Serbia, take responsibility to take care of all these strategies, because they were all Serbian, country, free and defence wars to save the Serb people from the triple genocide that was provided for them in the 20th century. Another very important thing that we mentioned here, too, and we didn't get an answer from you -- why is that Serbian omen avoided in defining certain legal solutions? So these aren't just liberating traditions, these are country traditions, these are Serbian military traditions, these are the defensive military traditions of the Serb people. This is very important for defining what the Serbian people did in the 20th century. The Serbian people defended themselves from genocide, which was practically planned over this people. We need to define this genocide prevention as one key policy in the 21st century, so that this genocide never happens again. That's what I insisted on in my previous speech and please pay attention to that. So if we don't cultivate historical memory and memory, if we don't preserve and bring the world the truth about genocide against Serbs in the 20th century, then who else will care for us. I remind you that here, the ruling majority, has been reluctant for two years to accept a declaration of genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in an independent state of Croatia, handed down by a parliamentary group of Serbia's Dvora movement. I don't see any reason for that. I think we're all unique about these topics and there's no reason not to bring one common position and put genocide prevention policy into one of the most important state priorities, both on the outside and on the inside. Our people, our new generations, don't know enough about the Serbian death of the 20th century. This should be one of the important points in our textbooks, and it is not on the right level, in our media and not on the right level, and then in our war memorials, where it is also not on the right level, because we have not suffered, Mr. Minister, only on the premises of Serbia, we have suffered at the premises of all Serbian countries in the Balkans where Serbs lived, from where they were expelled, where genocide was committed, and where, practically, the Serbian people became the largest people of refugees in modern Europe with over a million Serbs who had to leave their eternal hearths. As the queen of Serbia, we have an obligation to care for a comprehensive heart, for that integrated Serbia, for Serbs living outside Serbia's borders and to cultivate this historic memory and memory of all those who have been killed just because of their Serbian name and their Orthodox faith, wherever they live in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. So, a very specific question for us, are those sites, too, the memorials that this state of Serbia will respect and take care of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41229	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41230	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by respecting your tolerance for the opposition, I'm advertising Article 107. So you let the speaker say what he wants, but for me, it's a violation of dignity. He said we do not want to adopt a declaration of genocide committed over the Serb people in Croatia. That's just not true. It is true that this declaration, the proposal for a declaration, for some strange reason did not include the death of Serbs in the 1990s, nor the Storm, nor the Flash, nor the exorcision of 400,000 Serbs, nor the murder of only 1,882 people, of which 940 were over 60 years old, of which 543 were women. Thus, the proposal does not cover the persecution of over 400,000 Serbs and the murder of several thousand. Another reason why I'm suspicious, and I'm talking about the death of Serbs in World War II. This greeting, probably this greeting was the reason why the proposal for a declaration was so. The lady who greets the fascist greeting, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, (Vjerica Radeta: And who is it next to her? ) Bosko Obradovic is next to her. And on the other hand? ) Sasa Radulovic, the other side of the medal. We suspect that they are at all sincere and that this resolution has been drawn from sincere initiatives. Under this sign, Serbs were killed and therefore we do not want to vote for a declaration that was not complete. Number two, this lady said that the storm was a humanitarian action, and there's no storm in the motion for that declaration. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41231	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41232	A colleague, Marijan Rističević, just before you, I speak by Article 27, resented you, said you were tolerated by the opposition. Every time we hear something like that, we have to react because we don't belong to this one, Gilas's opposition, or I don't know who's gathering them now, and somehow we always need to ask for the emphasis that we Serbian radicals are the opposition authorities, but that we're not part of that pack that makes some new movement in Serbia or I don't know what. In particular, it is impossible for us to be classified, that our colleague Risticevic would put us in opposition with whoever was talking earlier. Earlier, a follower of Dimitri Ljotic spoke, and we Serbian Chetniks cannot possibly be in the same group. Chetniks have always fought the Latvians, so I'd only ask you to keep that in mind in the future. Of course, all you've brought up by colleague Risticevic, we don't have any objections to what you've said, the only objection is that, can you imagine one of us standing next to someone who says hello to the Hitlerian salute? Can you imagine one of the Serbian radicals standing next to someone or being with someone who said that Srebrenica was a genocide, such as Boskov's friend and co-worker, together on the list and entered parliament, said Sanda Raskovic Ivic. Can you imagine us saying that one of us Serbian radicals says that the Storm was a legitimate act, as Sanda Raskovic Ivić said, who, I repeat again, who, along with Bosko Obradovic, entered parliament, is better said, pushed by Scott. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41233	Only my colleagues, Radet, can send an appeal to colleagues who support the government to find an expression in their presentation without regard to the SRS. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on the injury in the voting day? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41234	Thank you, Chairman. I would point out that the order of the National Assembly session is being taken care of by the President of the National Assembly or, in this case, the chairman, you as vice president of the National Assembly. I'm sure you didn't have that intention, but so it turned out, that in some way you are allowed to speak in such a non-gentlemanic way about someone who is not present, and our colleague, MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić, is not present at the moment. That's the first problem. You should have stopped at her protection even for that gentleman's sake. On the other hand, let's ignore it, here's my colleagues, they don't want to be gentlemen, what they're attacking me is fine, I'm here and I can answer them, but if they're attacking someone who isn't present, that's not right in my opinion. But they say it's okay and if it's okay, then that's it, that's it. The other thing is a bigger problem than that, and the problem is when some fake photograph is being misused and where no one in the world can believe that Sanda Raskovic Ivić saluted Hitler's greeting, because Sanda Raskovic Ivić, do not forget the daughter of Jovan Raskovic, one of the leaders of Serbs in Croatia and also the victim of the same persecution of Serbs from Croatia, and simply insinuate and catch a photograph where someone raised his hand to look like a Nazi greeting, it can be like Marijana Risticevic, but it cannot be like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There you may have at some point been able to intervene and ask the great hero Marijan Risticevic not to strike against the ladies who are not present, but to continue the controversy between us who are present here. Here, I'm here, ready for every kind of controversy with these great heroes, that's not at all controversial, but to say, you're a little bit of an excruciating that they're targeting me without abusing the absence of the lady and that in such an ugly way they're treating someone who's a victim of Ustasha persecution from an independent state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41235	For someone to be hit by criticism, and the MP is, it doesn't matter whether he's in the O.R. or not. As far as I know, counterpart Sanda Raskovic Ivic is a permanent MP in the National Assembly and Serbian citizens pay for her not sitting in the hall, which is her political choice. But I don't see why I'd have to intervene to protect someone. Also, a picture like a picture, pictures often speak more than words. I don't want to get into the credibility of the painting, but also the fact that it was mentioned at some press conference that the storm was a humanitarian action completely legitimate, leads me to believe that the image is true. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41236	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 103 paragraph 8. The last time I spoke, I was talking about the promoters of the genocide declaration in Croatia, so that was precisely the part of the opposition that came forward earlier. Of course, and this Gilas left one that's not here, so he's doing shifts. So, this Gilas leftist from the Gilas Millionaire movement who robbed millions suddenly became sensitive to women. I'm giving him every right. I won't mention any women who don't work in the public sector. He mentioned mine several times, you're the chairman certainly remember. He was carrying out incorrect data. I've brought confirmations, shown both the chairman and all the MPs. I will not enter his family, nor will I mention the women of any MP who do not work in the public sector and do not work in the state. That's not the case with him, but I'm not. When a national MP, and I'm going to show this to her, I'm going to show it more than once, it's not just a photo, there's a Bosko Obradovic here who's smiling, and I'm saying that the photograph is authentic, therefore, that the greeting is not mounted. Maybe it's a Roman greeting, maybe she was going to say ave Rome, and she mixed up Rome and Crimea. When she was in power, such a Russian lover, didn't go to Crimea, didn't go to Russia to be an ambassador, went to Rome. And I've told the lady many times that Rome is not Crime, but come on, the Roman salary was far higher. Now I don't know if they're all against the EU or for the EU -- there's Vuk Jeremic, there's Gilas etc. And it would be good to make a statement? But when someone protects women, they need first of all to protect those who are not in the public sector. But he and this woman went into parliament, she's an MP, I'm gonna show it to her, and I'm saying the picture is authentic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41237	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The word has the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41238	The dignity of the Assembly, counterpart Arsic, member 27th and 107, was injured when MP Bosko Obradovic spoke. Namely, he said, in a desire to self-promotion and to wash his Latvian biography, he supported the amendment of counterpart Dubravko Bojic, as well as all the amendments of the SRS, and it is indeed a great shame for the SRS that a follower of Dimitri Ljotic supports us in any way. He doesn't even know what the amendment is, because if he knew, then he'd see that he was coming into collage with himself. Namely, counterpart Bojic asked that the title above this member be extended to a society to mark all wars in the Republic of Serbia, in the way we have been saying it for two days, which is to insist on all victims who suffered for the country in the 20th century. Now, you know, it's amazing that someone who is, and has talked a lot about it here in the Assembly, and has been given the so-called – Bosko Obradović, introduced by Ljotić's bud Bosko Obradovic, that in such a way it is said by someone who is a great fascist and a faithful Nazi follower, someone who, in July 1941, received the highest award from the occupation forces in Serbia for his outstanding contribution to collaboration, and that same year, in my native Kragujevac, the Latvians participated in the shooting of several hundred Serbian students from the Kragujevac High School. And this is really amazing. And I wanted to react this morning when Bosko Obradovic said he was talking about the heroic exploits of Draža Mihailovic. Well, Draža Mihailovic had already sent a letter to the Yugoslav government at the beginning of the first acts of occupation and said Dimitria Ljotic must be branded as the biggest traitor to the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41239	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Thank you very much. A colleague, Jovanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41240	I thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I must express my understanding for the amendment of the distinguished colleague Bojic, because this amendment is based on something that no one in this House in this House can doubt, which is that we are obliged to bow down to all the victims who have given their lives for Serbia, for their country, for the citizens of Serbia, and to make sure that this drink as a historical obligation is always being carried out consistently by us, the MPs. No matter who it is, no matter what historical stages it comes from, from which historical period, no matter what character it is, and it is always about those who have really given for their country everything they could, or their lives, in this context is not a questionable reference to the name or to Slobodan Milosevic, whose name and character history will tell their court, but we must never, absolutely, give a drink to those who have worked against their country, who have not acted as patriots, and in history they have recognized more as criminals, such as Milan Nedic, Ljotic and many others who have tried this country in various ways and her people to sat down and who have disgraced their Serbian background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41241	By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41242	Dear Chairman, it is not easy for our minister, Mr Zoran Djordjevic - how to come out to meet the SPS, who gives up Slobodan Milosevic, and somehow would mention him, not to mention him completely or to come out to meet Aleksandr Martinovic, who is ashamed of his radical past and does not know whether he is a radical or progressive and whether Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are the greatest villains, traitors and thieves or are the greatest heroes, heroes and geniuses, but good. It's not easy for you, and I admit it. I want to say one other thing here. You haven't answered my very simple question here. So, not only the fatalities and the list and the records of the victims in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also of all the former Yugoslav areas where Serbs were killed in their centuries-old hearths, will yours, as I say, register war memorials or not? Look, this is a strategic issue, because if we only narrow down to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we recognise the communist AVNOJA borders, which were called by a terrorist organisation of that time, we recognise the collapse of Yugoslavia and the narrowing of Serbian countries only to Serbia and everything outside Serbia we declare not Serbian. Be careful, you war memorials practically mark the identity and policy of an integral Serb, regardless of AVNOJ's borders, if you treat all these Serb sites as war memorials that will mark the state of Serbia. If you do not treat them, it means that you recognise Yugoslavia's disintegration as one process that has forever broken down with those Serbian countries that are no longer Serbian. They are now something else, some kind of Independent State of Croatia, which has formed on genocide. By definition, the only real genocide state in this world is the Independent State of Croatia or artificial Bosnia and Herzegovina, or let us not forget the crimes of Slovenians with whom the civil war began in the former Yugoslavia. So every name, every place where a Serb died in the 20th century, and especially in the Civil War from 1991 to 1995 must be recorded, must be preserved, must be remembered, must be entered into the care fund of the state of Serbia and your ministry. If you worry about it, these Serbian countries are not lost and there is one perspective that Serbs will one day live in the united Serbian countries and that, besides Serbia, the Serb state community will also be Republika Srpska-Montenegro and Republika Srpska Krajina, not to forget it. If you don't worry about it, then it means that you as a SNS, as a ruling regime, gave up taking care of Serbs living outside Serbia, forgot their suffering and suffering, gave up Serbian countries from which a million Serbs were expelled based on the civil war that took place there. So this is a strategic question, this isn't just a question of war memory and what's going to get into the register. This is a matter of policy towards Serbs in the region, according to Serbian countries in the region. Have you forgotten them or do you care about them? I'm asking you, here, this is the third or fourth time I've asked you, don't give me any more answers to this very simple question, you worry about it -- don't worry about it? For you, war memorials -- they're not war memorials for you, but they're other states and some other strategists that belong to me, I don't know who else and the state of Serbia has anything to do with it? The Serbian state, as the queen of all Serbs living outside Serbia's borders, has the obligation to take care of all 20th-century Serb strategies that have found themselves currently outside Serbia's borders, and whether they will again be in some united Serbian countries in the future, we will see. Time is changing, so Serbia-Montenegro and Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska can be reunited. It is all subject to political change, but it is important how we as a state of Serbia are being set up. If we set this as our national goal, if that is the idea of the leader of the Serbian people, the unification of all Serbian countries, then we will succeed eventually. Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41243	Right on the line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41244	First of all, the SPS doesn't give up anyone, especially its president. Slobodan Milosevic was the president of the SPS and about him, as I said earlier, will give history his own court. As president of the state, he played a historic role, however anyone looked at it and in any way. With all his faults and everything he did well, he remains a character, remains a person who in history takes his place. The Socialist Party of Serbia has never denied anyone, but will always condemn those who worked against Serbia and Serbs. Dimitrije Ljotic was a person of the most trust of fascists, a person of the greatest confidence of the German occupier. Dimitrij Ljotic was a person whom the Germans offered to establish his government to support fascists, who would support Hitler, but the traitor Nedic rejected and proposed another traitor to the Serbs and the Serb people, I apologize, Ljotic, for proposing another traitor to the Serb people, which is Milan Nedic, to establish a government that will also support Germany's Reich. Against such traitors, Serbs and all those who have collapsed and who have tried to put Serbia further under the yoke of the German occupier, and we will never give anything but the words of condemnation and what the Serbs mean to do so is always to have a special memory and therefore to look at their future in a completely opposite way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41245	Based on what colleague Obradovic? (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. Only if you have recognized yourself in the sentence that you are a follower of Ljotic (Nedjo Jovanovic: I did not mention him at all. ) (Bosko Obradović: Yes. Is it? Well, then I give you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41246	Thank you, Chairman. I have already said, and it is no secret that I respect the pre-war political career of Dimitri Ljotic and his Christian view of politics. I believe that from that period of his political action he can learn something smart. The second is the collaboration and operation of Dimitri Ljotic and Milan Nedic during World War II, which I am absolutely as a convinced anti-fascist, but on the other hand, I am asking you and I think it was my turn to warn the previous speaker that the insult of General Milan Nedic is something that is beneath the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. General Milan Nedic, according to all the scientists of this people, was placed in the book "Don't forget 100 famous Serbs" because General Milan Nedic was a person who saved 10 and 100 thousand Serbs from the mentioned Ustasha knife, not only Serbs but also Slovenians and other non-Serbs who fled the NDH and other parts under the fascist occupation. Therefore, General Milan Nedic deserves some respect for the Serb people, and he has tragically suffered and killed by communists just to avoid knowing the full truth about his aiding of the Serb and Serb population that he had to avoid in the then occupied Serbia under the Germans. Yes, he was a collaborator, but do you know which Milan Nedic? The Chief of General Staff of the former Royal Army, the celebrated First World War war war commander, a man who was anti-German and who, when he saw a Hitleric threat that Serbia would be divided among all fascists, fragmented and destroyed, accepted the head of the National Rescue Government to save what could be saved and sacrificed his own in military honor and sacrificed his future, knew that he would be condemned but saved by the Serb people in World War II. That should be respected. That's what the communists don't respect because they killed him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41247	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41248	I thank the chairman. I will not speak in that people's way – what someone is ashamed of, another is proud; but in any case one fact is an irrefutable fact, that while the whole of Europe is committed to a folk-free fight, while the whole of Europe boasts that fascism was broken in 1945, which was destroyed by an occupier who wanted to conquer the whole world, we in parliament today listen to something that every normal citizen should be ashamed of, and that is an ody of some respect for the character and part of the man who helped that same same Hitler, that same German occupation machine, that same fascism as ideology, so should anything be said except that it is for a great condemnation. Nothing more. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41249	You have no right to a colleague, Obradovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? You guys work hard when the game's over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41250	Dear Chairman, you're funny sometimes, I admit it, it's not often but you can be like now. So, Article 27. I know that you know history well and that you should have warned your distinguished colleague Nedjo Jovanovic of the lies he is talking about. So it is well known that the Serbian Dvora movement is anti-fascistly defined. We even received paper from the State Department and local self-government that when we register our political organisation in its statute and programme there is nothing at all that is controversial for the state of Serbia. What is important is to remind a colleague of Jovanovic, because he has violated the dignity of the National Assembly because he originates in fact from a communist terrorist organisation of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, which in its time played football with the Germans during the Ribentro-Molotov pact between the Third Reich and the Soviet Union. So, if someone served fascists, they're Serbian communists who, during World War II before they got the Cominterna warrant here, hung out and played football and collaborated with our occupiers. It was only when they received the order of the Cominterna to raise the uprising, because it only then became in the interest of the Soviet Union that our dear good communists remembered that they might also be partisans and rebels. I know fellow Arsic that you know this well and should have protected the dignity of the National Assembly from this communist false history that actually collaborated with fascists while Serbs as a people were anti-fascists. The problem with us as a people is that the anti-fascists, the real anti-fascists headed by General Draž Mihailovic, did not come to power after so-called. Liberations, already these revolutionaries and international terrorists headed by the KPJ and Josip Broz Tito, the greatest war criminal and the executioner of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41251	I don't really know what to say to you. This was a classic replica. It had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to go in there, that I am from the chair's office expressing my political views on the people and events that you've just counted. If you'd like me to answer that, I'd like to refrain from it and leave for another chance when I'm in benches where the MPs are sitting, not the chairman. According to the Rules of Procedure, First People's MP Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41252	I thank you, Chairman. What you said at the end, you really should have done at the very beginning, not to allow the harshest abuse of the Rules of Procedure by Boško Obradovic, who advertised Article 27, and to the Rules of Procedure did not even connect in any dictionary, but in any letter of what he said. Everything he said was about the harshest possible insults, and these insults refer to millions of those who, along with other patriots and patriots, had one ideology, which is communist ideology. That means 20,000,000 Russians, French, Spanish and many others who gave their lives for freedom, who gave their lives to break Fascism. I will never speak in any of my discussions in a way that involves opening new fronts and deepening ideological differences. We have overcome these ideological divisions and are prepared to, as I have said, pay tribute to anyone who has contributed to freedom in the sense that all those who have made this contribution are given and shown and shown by appropriate marking by any monument, in any other way. What Bosko Obradovic said about his shame, not ours. All those who have been covered by such serious and harsh insults will know that they are showing their judgment towards Bosca Obradovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41253	Col. Jovanovic, do you want the Assembly to declare itself? (Nedjo Jovanovic: No. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41254	The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Comrade Arsic, you have been obliged to act, because a great insult has been done to all of us sitting in this highest legislative body. In 2018, to be heard here, and without your reaction to the warning, the words that Bosko Obradovic just said, that is truly amazing. And if it wasn't exactly what he's saying and he's trying to wash away his Latvian enthusiasm and now he's transferring the ball to the alleged honorary role of Nedic as prime minister of the occupation government, here, I'll explain that it's not exactly true. Namely, journalist Stanislav Krakov and Dimitrij LJotic met on August day at the corner of Knez Milos Street, but now I really don't know what the street is called now, mostly, it was a place called "The Two Kings", where the Hilton Hotel is now talking about how to consent Milan Nedic, who was otherwise brought down by personal tragedy after World War I and the losses in his family, to serve a German occupier. And they succeeded there because both had certain family ties with Nedic. And his role, not that it wasn't honorable and famous, was really something that embarrassed Serbia and everything he did as a general of the Serbian army before that, and everything from Dimitri Ljotic's head, because he didn't memorize it. I will underline this parallel with this yellow betraying company and all the bulument that belongs today and Bosko Obradovic, which Soros, the American officials who issue their orders, so even before the war, Dmitry LJotic, the Germans tasked that he... (Chairman: Join, end of colleague. I have to finish, really, this is very important because of the dignity of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41255	But I need you in two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41256	Then I'll get back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41257	Then report back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41258	Because then it will end up being that we embarrass the state of Serbia with such words. Here, I'm done. So, the goal was to set up Nedic as Prime Minister, and that was all from Ljotic's head and his agreement with the Germans, the dead Serbia, to be in lethargy, as they would say, if they were in power -- here's Kosovo and Metohija, here's Vojvodina, take all of our grain fields and do all that, if that was their infamous role, and that's the magnificent Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41259	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41260	Mr. Arsic, I finally get to come once in a row when you're chairing. You usually take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41261	You need to be in the O.R. more often.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41262	It's a positive change. And you, Mr. Arsic, must follow the Rules of Procedure more often. I expected that you would eventually overcome these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in particular the provision of Article 27, then, the provision of Articles 106 and 107. Let's go from Article 107. He says the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. And Article 27, which refers to the chairman of the National Assembly’s meetings, says that the president of the National Assembly is, that is, the chairman of the committee on the application of this Rules of Procedure. And that, Mr. Arsic, while you're at it, is your task. There are days, hours, moments when your will is suspended, the Rules of Procedure, when nothing is valid, when you decide that everyone can talk about whatever they want, that it's a non-important topic, that it doesn't matter if they insult someone, because that's how it came to you. You have no right to make sarcastic comments. You can comment exclusively in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not tell me how much I'm in the O.R. As far as I'm concerned, I answer to the citizens of Serbia, not to you. So it doesn't matter how long I am, and today I've been for a very long time. That doesn't give you the right to comment past the Rules of Procedure. You said for a moment that a speaker who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure didn't say anything about it, that it was a classic replica, and you didn't interrupt it. That's when you admitted your own mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41263	Here, I confess and now a mistake, colleague Sarovic. You work out the same way when the game is over, as well as your colleague Obradovic. And respect for the dignity of the National Assembly is not only for what you say, but also for how you behave and how you come. I came to this hall and the National Assembly building when the day of the plowing was never in jeans and short-sleeve T-shirts. You have no right to re-injury with the Rules of Procedure, because I couldn't respond to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from the People's MP Bojan Bagica, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41264	Thank you. Article 103 of Article 7 has been broken. I can say it is sad to see Bosko Obradovic today who insults both this Assembly and Serbian MPs and citizens with the outflows of love for war criminals Dimitri Ljotic and Milan Nedic. But that hatred that it shows towards the Partisan anti-fascist movement is followed by a once-in-a-lifetime Latvian. Because now I'm going to show you a photo. This is Slavoljub Slava Koić, a 17-year-old boy, captured in 1941 by the Germans, who was tortured for three days by the Latvians and stoned by a five-pointed star before being shot. Now, it's the work of the Latvians and it's hate for the Partisans, for the people who hated this country. These same Ljotics and non-dicians founded a youth training camp in Smederjevska Palanca, known as the "small banica", a camp where it was beaten, tortured more than 1,300 young people from the territory of Serbia as a whole just because they were anti-fascists, only because they were farmers. They lived in the worst conditions, and the camp's managers were the married couple Popovic, of whom Milan Popovic was a Nedician husband, and his wife Dragojla Popovic, who ran the women's camp, was a member of the Assembly. These people, such ideology and such politics are represented by Bosko Obradovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41265	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41266	Since the MP has said four or five times that he repeated the same question, I do not want to mislead Serbian citizens who have not had the opportunity to read the law, because the MP himself obviously did not read the law, so he came unprepared. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia cares about everything that is Serbian and caring, not only about what happened to our people in the 20th century, but before, in all its history, and the MP's answer to his question lies in the article. 14th and 15th. I'll be very busy, when we've finished the debate, to give him the law that's been passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41267	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Comrade Sarovic, you don't have time for a parliamentary group. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41268	Mr. Arsic, look, they wanted you, they didn't want me, I came to the floor. You say, and thank you for saying, that the shirt I came in today is not adequate, but I suppose you don't know, so it can be for you a relaxing circumstance, this is the St. Archangel's T-shirt, of Emperor Dushan the Powery. I don't think you may know, but it's a good thing you said it wasn't acceptable for you. It is for me, and I'm proud of it. (President: colleague Šarovic, about his amendment, please. It's about the amendment. If we're talking war memorials, Mr. Arsic, all day long the MPs have been talking about Serbian history, about Serb military leaders, and certainly one of the greatest, if not the greatest, Emperor Dusan Silni. I don't think any Serb should mind. I would understand that it bothers our enemies, but to someone who presides over the National Assembly sessions, I find it embarrassing. As far as my amendment is concerned, we heard a lot of things in the debate today. We also heard from one of the speakers that supports the borders of the great Serbia, but brought Ivan Pernar to the Assembly. We heard from one of the speakers that there is no peace between the Serbian-Croatian people and the Serbian-Croatian state. You may recognize, Mr. Arsic, who said that, but the problem is that official state policy is different. You're asking to condemn genocide against Serbs, confess their crimes, and that's what needs to be done, but you missed the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41269	The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41270	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. A bill on war memorials. It is known to all of us that there are a large number of cultural and historical monuments in KIM territory that symbolize the eternal struggle of our people for freedom. Of course, the most famous monument to Kosovo heroes is in Gazimestan, but there are other landmarks dedicated to Kosovo's color. An opportunity to mark Kosovo's six-year-old colour, a large number of monuments have been restored, and some new ones have been raised. This is how the monument of the Prince Lazar and the memorial “Knez Lazara Knights” was erected in Gjilan. Unfortunately, after NATO's occupation by the Apparatus, the "Priests of the Prince Lazar" went down on purpose on Vidovdan, among them a monument to Prince Lazar. This monument was destroyed on July 24th 1999 and was taken to the American base Bonsteel. By God's providence, a Serb from Shilova somehow got hold of this monument and brought it to Shilovo, a village near Gjilan. My smallness is when I visited my hometown of Shilov, I learned that the monument is located in my village. With the help of my friends and people of goodwill, I formed a memorial board, and I was at the head of that committee. We set the monument during 2007 above the village of Šilovo, next to the Orthodox Church of St. Mark. In addition to the monuments, in the center of the village there was also a monument to the holy Prince Lazar, who represents a symbol of this village where locals of the village of Šilovo are still gathering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41271	National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Sarovic, you can't have a word. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Sarovic, don't play with the card. That's what little kids do. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Vukajlović, although counterpart Sarovic wants to take that right from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41272	Thank you. Just one question. So, 6,000 memorials, these war memorials, we have at our discretion, we don't have accurate records. Just answer me, Minister, I ask you nicely. In 2015, 2016 and 2017 Serbian citizens, the maintenance of these war memorials, which in the country, which abroad, cost over one million euros, and the total memorials on which something was working or were subject to recovery is 69. So, for 69 war memorials, we spent a million and a few euros in three years, and now tell me one thing. If we have 6,000 memories, where we got the money from, and you didn't predict anywhere, and you said you didn't even need the money, you were just a very nerd in one segment of the law saying that it would be in the division and part of the funds that were defined for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We know how your Ministry of Labour and Social Policy worked while your predecessor from your government, who is now the Minister of Defence, led this ministry. It's under a big veil, highly doubtful. We know about the aunt from Canada, we know about some assets that are not allowed. He didn't know how to explain it to the citizens. Now, you explain to us why you let sublegal acts decide on how to finance both in the country and abroad these war memorials, why didn't you put it in this law so that we could see how you would finance it, not just grouply in that department for you, and then we would interpret how much it would be? If we have six grand, and we have one million euros, then how much money do we need...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41273	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41274	Mr Arsic, once again you have violated the 27th member who gives you the right, but at the same time imposes on you the obligation to conduct the sessions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This means that you must concentrate and put your personalaffinities or animosities aside to other MPs. You allowed yourself something you shouldn't have, giving the word to Mrs Vesni Vukalović Nikolic, you gave yourself the right to say – here I give you my word, even though my colleague Sarovic wants to take it from you. Mr Arsic, I am not someone to kidnap, especially distinguished ladies, such as Mrs Vesna Vukalović Nikolic, I am not taking anything, nor am I in a position, and more importantly I do not want to. You know, I've never taken my mandates in this assembly, I've never taken anyone's word, I haven't taken the time, that's what the others did. Therefore, you must, Mr. Arsic, refrain from such comments. You may be glad to hear from someone, perhaps you don't love someone, it's hard for you to listen to them, but you are obliged to try and at least act, even if you realize an illusion that you are treating all MPs in the same way. If you are unable to do so, then you should resign as vice president of the National Assembly, so let's see if there are any persons in your parliamentary group who are able to perform this role adequately. It is clear that your relationship with all MPs is not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41275	A colleague of Sarovic's... Nemanja Sarovic throws. I choose the words of my colleague Sarovic. I'm trying to be polite, because while I was reading the amendments and asking if any of them wanted to answer the word, you answered and if you had no right to do so and you knew you had no right to do so. I also heard what you said to my colleague Boyic. Somehow, at that moment, everything was quieted down in the O.R. Why are you doing this? It's a mild word to joke about what you said. Don't take your head off. Has anyone taken anything from the Serbian Parliament ever written a travel order to come from Belgrade for a session, and I write that I came from Vranj. Here's your colleague, Djordjevic. (Inemnja Sarovic: I want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day. ) The Assembly will be declared in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41276	To answer the parliamentary question. To be precise in 2015, 2016, 2017, 50 million dinars are allocated each year for the investment maintenance of war memorials. It is true that there are six thousand of them, and it is true that all six thousand are not in the same condition. What we are not satisfied with is the state of our memory in Macedonia, and here we will see that in some future time we pay more attention to them and bring them into, I say, a decent state of mind, that is, the state of our memorials deserve. But what you've also badly formulated, we don't regulate underlaws how we spend financial resources, we regulate investment plans. The investment plan is carried out when the budget is adopted and on the basis of the adopted budget we predict, we make a plan of how we will and what memories we have in that year to renovate, maintain or invest in them some additional funds. In particular, for example, different memories require a different amount of financial resources. In this year, we gave the most for Zeytenlik and for the restoration of the monuments in Calemegdan, "Gratefulness of France", both of which were 200,000 euros. Next year, we plan to invest large funds in the reconstruction of Belgrade's Cemetery Liberations, which should be proud of Belgrade and which will completely change the dimension of how our memorials should look, from how they will be illuminated, to the very approach, and we also want some of the gaps that were involved in the construction of this memorial to correct and bring some technical plans to make future generations easier to maintain those memorials.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41277	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović: Replica. You do not have the right to reply, counterpart Nikolic Vukajlović. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41278	I thank Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment, as before, refers to a municipality that extremely cares about the monumental complex of December 4th, dedicated to the fighters I have fallen in the famous Pre-Politary Battle, 4th of December 1943, and has suffered only in one day more than 400 fighters. The memorial complex was discovered on December 4, 1953, and the SFRJ Assembly declared it a monument of exceptional importance on March 29, 1979. In memory of this kind of Pre-Political epic, this memorial complex is carefully nurtured and complemented with new contents. While in a completely different state, the "Bosko Buha" memorial complex in Jabuca is 17 kilometers away from Prepolje. The memorial was dedicated to a young bomber at that time, Bosko Buhi, who died in the Jabuska High School on September 27, 1943, as well as other fighters smaller than the rifle, pioneers from all the republics of the SFRY. In the 60's 20th century, the memorial complex was just erected by former Yugoslavia's pioneers. Such a complex, together with a museum dedicated to the children of the People's Liberation Battle, which worked until the 1990s when Yugoslavia fell apart. Since then, he has become unwarrantedly forgotten and neglected. He's completely devastated today. The only thing they resist is the time of the unscathed sculpture of the pioneer fighters from all the republics of the former SFRY. Within the complex along with this mention of the markings stands and later erects a monument with names for the end of the communist arm during World War II and it is intact...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41279	Thank you. National MP Danica Bukvic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague, Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41280	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. The amendment shall be accompanied by a legal technical order of the provision of Article 3. The bill, which makes the provision clearer, is in line with the spirit of the Serbian language. As already stated, the adoption of this law was necessary in order to regulate the rules in this area in a comprehensive manner, especially given that regulations regarding war memorials were passed during the period of the existence of the SFRJ, or the Socialist Republic of Serbia, which was almost 40 years ago. I would like to point out that it is an important paper to educate a council to cultivate the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars to give an opinion on a proposal to edit war memorials and remove war memorials. The biggest newspaper is the ministry's responsibility to cultivate Serbia's free-war tradition of giving consent to raise a new war memorial. Serbia has a rich history. I would remind you that in settlements around Belgrade, Lazarovac, Mladenovac, Sopot, Barajev, Obrenovac, as well as Belgrade itself, there are more than a hundred monuments dedicated to the dead in World War I. I would also point out that Serbia, in the former Yugoslavia, was a significant anti-fascist front in the fight against the occupiers. In recent decades, there have been major social economic changes in our society. During one period, these memorials dedicated to anti-fascist fighting were unwarranted, and some monuments were removed. The bill regulates the entire area and clearly distinguishes the competence of local self-government units and the Ministry of Business in the care of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars in the field of war memorial protection, as well as the jurisdiction to finance regular maintenance. In this way, a regulated system in this area will contribute to the improvement of respect for human rights, traditions, national and religious feelings. The SPS parliamentary group will support this as well as any other proposed legislation in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41281	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Dinic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41282	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable ministers with a co-worker, fellow MPs and MPs, first of all, I would like to say that the MP group of the SPS will support this bill as a single law governing this area that has so far not been respected and has not been given the place it deserves. I have submitted this amendment to more clearly define competences, not only units of local self-government, but also ministries, which in many ways will contribute to the maintenance and protection of war memorials. What is very important is that we do not invest, therefore, only time and effort on stability economically, demographically and economically, but also work to improve respect for human rights, our traditions, religious diversity and, more importantly, to achieve a more efficient functioning of the state administration in the process of protecting the maintenance and arrangement of war memorials. I would also like to praise what this bill defines, which is that the ministry is responsible for the tasks of fostering the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars in the area of protection of war memorials is now competent, therefore, and is giving consent to the introduction, i.e. setting up new war memorials and regulating this area through the harmonisation of economic conditions, as well as a different way of managing funds and planning funds for this area. Also, the bill has defined a way of overcoming the problem when it comes to financing new war memorials by local self-government units, and that is what should be commended. This bill also imposed an obligation to establish, therefore, war memorial records in both the country and abroad, as well as records of dead persons. This is a small step, but a major step in fostering and establishing the cultural heritage and heritage of the Republic of Serbia, which is, therefore, also a great wealth, and on the other hand, many victims and faces and wars behind us I think are worth this kind of bill proposal and, of course, further efforts to improve this bill and to provide as much funding for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41283	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we heard from the minister that the Serbian people have over 6,000 memorial sites, locations, of which 625 are located outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is no wonder if we know that the Serbian people only fought seven free wars in the 20th century -- two Balkan wars, two world wars, a war of Serbs in Bosnia, a war of Serbs in the Serbian province and our war against the NATO pact to preserve KIM. Not to speak of our further history, for these wars have been many, as with any nation so far. That is why the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia have unique monuments of this species in the world, and the most famous of them is the famous low cell tower. Unfortunately, I come from Nis, but Nis isn't only known for the Tower Cell. No Serbian casualties and no war has passed Nis and its surroundings, so there are many in Nis and its surrounding areas. We all know that during NATO's aggression on our country, Nis was one of the most injured cities, which suffered the greatest and most material and human ruins. We all remember those horrifying scenes when NATO villains threw cluster bombs at the low main market, at the Low Clinical Center, and when many innocent civilians were killed, and among them one pregnant, a fifth-year-old medical student. So we in the SRS have no objection to this law being passed, but we have some objections that we have shown to our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-26-0.u41285	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 19.10.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from attending the following MPs: Zarko Obradović, Aleksandra Tomić, Dubravka Filipovski, Elvira Kovac, Aleksandra Stevanović, Aleksandar Šelj, Marija Obradović, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Dejan Radenković, Tijana Davidovac, Gordana Čomić, Vojislav Vujić and Đorđe Kosanić. I continue the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on War Memorials. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the context of the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on War Memorials, the sittings are invited to attend: Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Minister without portfolio, with associates. The 3rd amendment was filed by MP George Komlenski. The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, come in.
