ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e1628	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 30. The meeting of the National Council, convened on the basis of a business order request of more than one fifth of the Members for today, 1 p.m. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13 and 14. ==References====External links== Meeting of 14. June of this year the Parliament's management has remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They are therefore considered approved. For today's session as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Brinek, Mag. Frieser, Gatterer, Dr. Gusenbauer, Mag. Kukacka, Elmecker, Ing. Meischberger, Hans Helmut Moser, Dr. Mock and Rauch-Kallat. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e1665	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the representation of prevented members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Minister of State Defense Dr. Werner Fassleven is represented by Federal Minister Dr. Michalek, Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection Dr. Christa Krammer wird durch Bundesminister Mag. Viktor Climate Representative and Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Caspar By Federal Minister Dr. Helga Konrad. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e1704	I declare that since the last meeting written questions 789/J to 807/J and the written question to the President of the National Council 2/J-PR have been submitted. Request replies have also been received from 429/AB to 460/AB. Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e1728	Deputies Dr. Helene Partik-Pabléund Comrades have asked that the written question (808/J) tabled at the beginning of this meeting by Dr. Partik-Pablé and comrades to Mr Bundeskanzler on jobs be dealt with urgently. Since this desire is aimed at carrying out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time, I would like to extend the negotiation of this urgent request in accordance with the provisions of § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure at 4 p.m. I do not have any further desire to do so, so I interrupt the sitting by 4 p.m. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 1.33 p.m. and resumed at 4.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e1762	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure Dr Helene Partik-Pabléund comrades to the Federal Chancellor on jobs – decent foreign policy (808/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e1800	We arrive at urgent treatment of the written question 808/J. It has now been duplicated and presented to all Members. There is therefore a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e2098	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé, the first signatory to the question, received the floor for reasons which must not exceed 40 minutes in accordance with Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e2120	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not know if I should congratulate you on your ten-year-old Federal Chancellorship, because in these ten years we have already done significant things, and we want to cut down on an important issue of the maltreatment that exists in Austria today. We have therefore requested this special meeting and have tabled the urgent question because we are really concerned about the foreign policy which is being done here in Austria. We want to discuss with you today, Mr Bundeskanzler, and with the ladies and gentlemen of the National Council how you imagine the future. I can imagine that the speakers of SPÖ and ÖVP, who come to me, call us anything, namely, as aliens, diffamisers, racists and so on – we are already used to – but we are nothing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is about making a decent and decent policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A decent policy towards the Austrians, a decent policy towards the foreigners who have long lived here in Austria, and a decent policy towards those foreigners who seek Austria as a country for their future. Because what is now being done under the socialist government in agreement with the Austrian People's Party is not a decent foreign policy, but a really inappropriate immigration policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is therefore indecent because it does not take any account of those foreigners who have lived in Austria for a long time and who are now faced with an extremely strong competition in an economically difficult situation. It is therefore inappropriate because it does not tell the new immigrants the truth, because people are preoccupied, they can find homes and jobs here – and then they come here and may be able to live as a black worker. Its policy is therefore not a decent foreign policy, because it does not take account of the Austrians, because the Austrians are gradually taken home, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints with the liberals]] You really have to take note of that. Federal Chancellor! I don't know if you know about it. In Vienna there are areas with 70 percent foreigners! – This number does not come from us liberals, but it has eroded Mayor Häupl himself. Can you imagine the quality of life in such a district, for example in 16 and 17. District, where the Austrian population is a minority, where so many foreigners live, who have a very different culture that has a different lifestyle? – We have to put it there, Mr President-in-Office, because the Austrian population is being pushed so much into the background that this is no longer reasonable. As has already been said, Mayor Häupl said that there are inhumane states, although he wants to distance himself from them in a press service today. They always say that the Austrians should adapt. We do not think that the Austrians should adapt, but, quite the contrary, we demand that foreigners adapt to our lifestyle. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have no understanding at all of the fact that you do not respect the need of the Austrians to live, as they have lived for decades, by the Socialists and the Austrian People's Party with your entire immigration policy, but rather to overcome it and even ridicule this need. I would remind myself that a feast took place in the previous year, a hammock festival in the backyard to which Mr Einm and Mr Scholten were invited, and also Mr Cap, I believe, was there. They mocked the people there. You said: We wanted to show the population that it is not so bad anyway. We wanted to take the fear of touch! – This is your approach to the population class that must live with these circumstances: You can fry a hammock from a cook there, invite you to a well-kept backyard and in this way want to bring the culture of those countries whose inhabitants bring you to Austria in such a great excess. This shows your disdainful policy, which shows your human beings’ disdainful way of dealing with people. Federal Chancellor! They watch without seeing in any way the need for action. They look forward to the so-called integration package, according to which another 150,000 foreigners are to come to Austria. Is this your way of bearing responsibility, Mr. Bundeskanzler? Do you assume your responsibility for the Austrians? It is not enough to write beautiful letters before the elections with great announcements and, after the elections, to leave the people to their fate and to let Mr. Interior Minister work as he pleases. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or you agree with the package of Minister of the Interior One, but then say it! We want to know today from you what you say about this integration package, whether you will ensure that it does not enter into force, or whether you agree. We expect this answer from you today, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Vienna, 370 000 foreigners are currently living legally, more than 100 000 are illegal, but it can be up to 200 000, which is 28 percent of the total population. If one still takes the family move according to the concept of Minister of the Interior One, the proportion of foreigners increases to 35 percent. Federal Chancellor! They live in the 19th century. District, you're not so affected by it, in the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website District Villas and condos bought. But there are districts, as I have already said, who feel these 35 percent – in rare cases it is even 70 percent foreigners. From 1989 to 1995, 176 000 foreigners moved to Vienna. It has made the municipality Vienna an investigation called "Vienna 2010". This shows that from 12,000 immigrants per year a large city slides to the level of a third-world city. In this study, it says, among other things: "The labour market can absorb a flow of 6,000 migrants. A migration of 12,000 people per year already significantly exceeds the capacity of the Vienna economy." – Do you know how many people have immigrated? 25 000 a year, and already at 6,000, this horror scenario has given rise to a fall in large cities, as we have in other countries. Federal Chancellor! They have thus created the prerequisites for what the Magistrates Division 18, urban planning, in Vienna in this study as the São-Paulo-Horrorszenario, namely that we get conditions as in the major metropolises of the Third World. Do you want this, Mr. Federal Chancellor? If not, please tell us clearly. But then you have to stop the Minister of the Interior, with his immigration policy at last! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also no wonder – you will probably also know, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – that the district leaders of some of Vienna's districts have desperately gone to the public. You've made a pact against the beltling. Mr. Cap! They're from the 17th century. District, and before elections, you always know exactly what the people of residence want to hear, but during the year, after the elections, you always participate, you always agree with what Mr Einm wants. What do you say about this pact against the beltling? The district chiefs want to see the people out of their burdened districts. But I'm asking: Where to move foreigners? With an average rate of 35 percent, each district is already full of foreigners. And in the districts of which one still believes that they are Nobel districts – I have already mentioned that – the Russians have bought properties and villas and settled down. The Federal Minister for the Interior always speaks of him wanting to make a policy for the people, and many of the Socialists and also of the Austrian People's Party join him. But what is being done here is not a policy for the people, because that only brings oblivion, disintegration and the displacement of the Austrians. Where is politics for people? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Although you see all this exactly – Mr. Cap, you see it close by; I don't know if you're in 17. ==References====External links== Districts are – support Interior Minister One if he insists on an increase of 150 000 foreigners. This is a truly disastrous policy being made in this area. It is the housing situation disastrous in Vienna – over 100,000 people are urgently looking for an apartment. It is the workplace situation disastrous – it is almost 300,000 people unemployed. We have an unemployment rate as never since the end of World War II, and we have a budget situation that we have not got under control at all. I really do not know how the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance can tolerate what the Minister of the Interior has to do with it. Federal Chancellor! Further immigration also burdened the budget blatantly. There are 100,000 children – this number is undisputed, which the Minister of the Interior has already admitted – and if one assumes that one child costs 1 million schilling a year – that is quite realistic, with kindergarten court or school, medical care – then one comes to 100 billion schilling, which are spent in the budget over the next few years. How do you want to do that? Now in this budget you have fought for 1 million schillings, but in the next ten years you want to spend 100 billion schillings, just because 150 000 immigrants want to come in addition to Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These 100 billion schilling in ten years can only cause you to increase taxes again. 5 per cent of income tax would have to be so that these 100 billion schilling can be paid. To whom should such a policy benefit, Mr. Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialists and of the Austrian People's Party? The Austrian? You will not believe that you can make the Austrians aware that this is a policy for their benefit! This is a policy only for the so-called new immigrants. Because those who have come in the 1970s have already followed their family. You will not believe that you need a family merger package for those guest workers who have been in Austria for 10, 15 or 20 years. I ask you, Federal Chancellor: Why Make You're a policy that's not for the benefit of the Austrians? Why does the Socialist Party make a policy that is not for the benefit of the Austrians? Why don't you stop the Minister of the Interior from making a policy that is to the detriment of the Austrians? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Interior Minister One says continuously, almost in every interview, he makes a policy for people because humanity is indivisible. The Austrians must also be involved in this policy of indivisible humanity. [[Further condolences with the liberals.]] The Austrians who live in houses where there is already a share of 70 percent of foreigners. This is all empty speech about the indivisible human rights that Mr Einm wants to enforce – beautiful words, but they come across a bitter reality. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They will not be able to make clear to any Austrian who lives in such a neighborhood that the family move is a positive thing for him. There's no such thing as that. You can't burden the Austrians any more. One must be clear to the greatest utopist and the greatest visionary: We cannot welcome all 40 million people worldwide who are looking for a new home! That must be clear to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: No human wants that!]] Of course you want to. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: The smooth untruth you say!]] The policy you are making is to make the move unstoppable. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For example, the Greens want unlimited immigration. Mrs Ederer calls for a faster citizenship. You are not yet enough of what is happening now. The four-year citizenship of Mrs Ederer is still not enough, she wants her to go even faster. Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has said to immigration and to the 40 million people worldwide who are looking for a new home, that the fears of the population – and that is what the Austrians are supposed to do – must definitely be seen and that the loadability must be measured not only by technical means but also by psychological barriers. As regards so-called economic refugees, i.e. immigrants, we cannot take up all those who want a better life on the other side of the road. – This is actually a binge truth. And you claim that no one wants a policy of open borders, but read in your broadcasts, in the broadcasts by the Minister of the Interior, you will see that he wants them. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of the Interior is obviously on the view that we must take foreigners up until the prosperity gap in the individual countries has reached zero. He says... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: So absurd!]] Sage You don't, Mr. Novotny, I'll tell you something. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It's absurd!]] It's absurd what Mr. One says. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's what you're going to put!]] No, I'm not going to put it, I'm telling you, Mr Novotny! [[Complaints with the liberals]] Minister for the Interior One says: We can only achieve effective protection against immigration if there is a political and economic balance between rich and poor countries. That's what he says. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Sure! They're gonna grow!]] But what does that mean? Should we take on foreigners until the economic and legal balance is the same with those countries which are not yet as developed as ours? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: They should grow!]] This is the policy of a visionary and an utopist. Or do you want to leave for Austria until all Austrians have emigrated? That would probably be the best thing for you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say that Austria is a country of immigration without interruption – supported by the ÖVP. They do not at all remember that this cannot be reconciled with the economic and spatial situation at all. Do you want to argue now that Mr Khol has said that? It can even be read in the "standard" of 14 days ago. Mr Khol, confess to the fact that you said Austria was a country of immigration. Now you sit here, look trodden and don't want to admit that you said that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kiss doesn't know, obviously he hasn't read a paper. [[Abg. Kiss: Me?- Oh, my God!]] You have said it several times. If we are discussing this in Parliament, you can also confess it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to immigration, integration and so on, I have a very interesting report, which I expect will also interest you. Sweden has always been and still is the great example of social democracy. In 1975, the Swedish Reichstag passed a law laying down the basic principles of Swedish foreign policy. These principles are: Equal opportunities, cultural freedom of choice and solidarity. Some years later, after years of immigration, after the adoption of this law, the Swedish have come to the following conclusions: After decades of dedicated foreign policy, unemployment among foreigners is twice as high as that of Sweden, foreigners have more and more poorer homes, inferior homes and live in worse areas than Sweden. Recently we had an international symposium here, also with the participation of Austria. It was about the multicultural society. Many of the foreign participants still had the idea that there was a functioning Swedish model. It is almost ridiculous for us Sweden, because if there is something about which there is broad consensus in Sweden, then we need to change our immigration policy and our social policy – immediately. As before, it's not going on. – This is what this report says. Sweden sees that integration, multicultural society, is not to be enforced. Only you don't see it yet, Mr. Minister of the Interior. They all still live in the craziness that we could enforce the multicultural society in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Return to the family merger: I find it particularly depressing how the Minister of the Interior argues about his proposals for reform, his laws on foreigners. He says: We are forced, in accordance with the Constitution, to look after the families. We can't go away from that. - That's just wrong. This is the untruth, because the Constitution does not prescribe that. Nor does Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights require that. I have here the knowledge of the European Court of Justice, which is always so much quoted, that it clearly states: It is not a human rights violation if a country does not allow the family immigration of foreigners. You must take note of this once again and again, you cannot claim otherwise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also belongs to a decent discussion that one sticks to the truth. You cannot say that we are bound by the Constitution, but that there is no legal basis at all. Federal Chancellor! I would very much like to give you the knowledge of the European Court of Justice so that you can be convinced that I am telling the truth. I would remind you once again of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights, which says only: "Every man is entitled to respect his private and family life, his home and his correspondence." "The intervention of a public authority... is only excellent"... – and so on. There's no mention of family integration at all. I can also give this to you, Mr. Federal Chancellor. Mr. Khol! You too are for family union. You too are in favour of further 150 000 foreigners coming to Austria. As a lawyer, they should know the Convention on Human Rights and know that there is no obligation for the Austrians to withdraw from it at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really do not know why the Minister of the Interior is running such an aggressive immigration policy, why he wants such an aggressive move in the family, because some of his party friends make a pure table before the elections or give the people pure wine. – Just before the elections, after the elections it always looks very different. For example, city councillor Hatzl says that 100 000 foreigners who live in Vienna and have a residence permit want to reclaim the family. To approve this would mean that once again 100 000 people have to be admitted to Vienna, and we do not. That's what Mr Hatzl says. Federal Chancellor! Is it known to you that Mr Hatzl says that another 100 000 foreigners are no longer possible for Vienna? – Obviously not, for otherwise you would have made a mark by the invoice of Mr. Innenminister One for a long time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After all, we have enough problems arising from poor negotiation at EU meetings. We have now learned from the Administrative Court that the EU Association Agreement with Turkey applies, that it is national law, which means nothing more than that the Turks are equal to certain points in the Residence Act and the Foreign Employment Act. We have always pointed out, even in the debate in the EU election campaign, that this association agreement will in all cases become national law. Only: At that time, you took everything away, you did not say that we were expecting it, but you pretended as if it were nothing for us. Now we have it black on white. And I was surprised to note that Mr Häupl argues that this Association Agreement applies to Turkey. That is the highest. Mr Häupl has heard the delegation of negotiations that he should have negotiated that this Association Agreement does not enter into force and therefore does not apply to Austria – but he does not even know anything about it. There you can imagine what commitment was negotiated in Brussels! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Häupl says that all that is claimed about this EU Association Agreement is nonsense. The fact is, however, that Turkish nationals who have been living and working in Austria for several years now have the latest knowledge of the need to make it easier for them to stay and work and to have a right of residence after four years of legal employment and residence in Austria. You don't have to look for extra. In addition, after a year of proper employment, they are entitled to a renewal of the employment permit. They are entitled to an extension of the residence permit – an unlimited one. Mr. Häupl knows nothing about that. He, the mayor of Vienna, a city that is most affected by it, both by the movement of Turks and by unemployment and the need for housing, would simply like to talk out by saying that he knows nothing about it at all, that is all nonsense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think he knows very well first that he has done badly, and second, he does not know how to make it clear to the Vienneses that the Turks have equal rights. He does not know how to make it clear what happened in Brussels and that the Turks are now enjoying this free movement. He precisely knows that the Vienneses, the Austrians, would at all show enormous indignation, they knew how Mr Mayor Häupl had betrayed them in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen! When we warned about the membership of the European Union of the Association Agreement, we were always accused that we would do everything again and again, we would be the ones ruining the good mood. We have really considered this 'Hurra vote' realistically, and we have drawn attention to the dangers posed by EU accession. But that's what you've put all that into the wind by the government parties. We already know socialist politics: First of all, you're going to mess up everything, then we're going to be flawed and defamated, and then we're going to fight at the end of the fight. They do everything – just as this is done by Mayor Häupl. That's your policy, but we're not involved! We want the population to be properly informed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also belongs to your policy that before the elections you will always show everything there is in flaws, what you want to change. This does the Austrian People's Party as well as the Socialist Party. You want to detract the voters, because you admit the shortcomings in foreign policy, and you count on what needs to be done to bring about a better situation. For example, Mr Hatzl said before the National Council elections: Unfortunately, the "F" movement is quite right with its propaganda that some 100 000 foreigners are illegally residing in Vienna, so Vienna can no longer handle foreigners. That is what Mr Hatzl said before the elections. Mr. Häupl says: Laws must be complied with. There is no place for illegals in our city! – Only: The consequences of these findings are zero after the elections. After the elections, we continue with an immigration policy, with the illegals; nothing is done at all. The Planquadrate and the intervention force of Mr Häupl have proved to be really toothless. The intervention group was only good for television – she could be there twice – and then she was forgotten. In fact, they are not available, but they are only available on the paper and press conferences of Mr Häupl before the elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The situation is disastrous and worrying, especially as the illegals arrive. Even the German politicians are criticizing how Austria protects its borders. Austria has become an uncertainty under the Schengen Agreement. Federal Chancellor! The head of the German Border Police in Passau says: A border army, as planned in Austria, has no impact at all. Criticism of this is also being practiced in Bonn. From the Ministry of the Interior in Bonn it is heard that Austria is not ready to offer membership of the Schengen Agreement at dumping prices. On Austria's borders, 506 people with fake travel documents have been left to pass without objection in recent months, which one should have recognized. – But this is not the fault of officials who are sloppy, but that comes from it because there are no suitable equipment, no modern technology, and because the officials are not sufficiently trained. Federal Chancellor! They are so happy to go abroad and can be celebrated there as the "great Federal Chancellor of Austria". Let us say something about this blamable criticism by the German authorities that Austria is so badly safeguarding its borders that they are dim and tight as an Emmentaler. It is indeed glaring to fear that Austria will be the great gap when the Schengen Agreement enters into force. But the longer I see one of the ministers of the Interior in his work, in the exercise of his office, the more I tend to believe that this revelation of the boundaries is intended by him. Because an interior minister who is so strongly committed to a further immigration of foreigners... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know, if you have the policy of Mr. Consider a truly realistic view, then you will surely come to this conviction. I will then also read to you a little more, which really gives an insight into how the Minister of the Interior actually thinks. You will then immediately revise that I say nonsense. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen that the Minister of the Interior has a strong tendency to leave more foreigners to Austria, whether legal or illegal. The Minister of the Interior has advocated that the illegals be paid even after a collective agreement. He did not say that the illegals belong to abducted, but, quite the contrary, he said that they belong according to the collective contract paid. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Unheard of!]] That's really unheard of! Now I want to show his attitude. I'll read to you what the Minister of the Interior said when he wasn't the Minister of the Interior. In 1991 he said to the magazine "Workplacesblatt" on the problem of tourism: I assume that a real restriction on immigration by means which we still consider to be reasonable is not possible today. – That is to say, he refuses to think at all about whether there is a limit to immigration. He also said: Even if police conditions are established, it is not possible to identify and abolish all immigrants who have come to the country unsolicited. The idea that we could shape an immigration policy in such a way that we define who we can need and let in only those we need, I think is morally unacceptable and impracticable. - That's what the Minister of the Interior said. It expresses its true attitude. He does not distinguish between legals and illegals, between those we may need, and those we cannot need, but it should all come in. The Minister of the Interior also agrees that the grounds for asylum should be extended. Economic distress and lack of life prospects should, for example, be causes of escape. They can imagine how Austria will then be polluted by many people who hold it worse in their homeland than they did in Austria. He also said: The working point – with this he fully agrees – remains a fact with expected further immigrations. However, it makes sense to organize it. The municipalities could provide suitable places for this labour market and provide them with a minimum infrastructure. This would not only intercept a significant part of the population resistance, but also improve the situation of the labour force providers. – This was said by the Minister of the Interior, someone who in 1991, when he had not yet held a political role, expressed what was really in him. He now wants to implement this policy in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am glad, on the one hand, that the Federal Chancellor is here today to hear these arguments from our urgent question – unfortunately, he does not really listen, he is chatting all the time! – on the other hand, I would have liked to face our allegations to the Minister of the Interior. But he has preferred to withdraw from this discussion by fleeing abroad, so the Federal Chancellor is here today. [[Protest calls at the SPÖ.]] But it may be so much better anyway, because the Federal Chancellor has the opportunity to be Minister for the Interior Bring one back to reason. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Schieder: The "flight abroad" is at the border of what you can say about a stay abroad! It doesn't belong!]] Why? A minister of the interior usually comes to a special meeting unless he wants to avoid something unpleasant. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You know what escape is!]] The Minister of the Interior has abstained from the unpleasant! In fact, he should be here, because it is quite common for a minister to come to Parliament when a special session is held and not to be held in Poland. [[Further condolences with the liberals.]] The excitement can't be with you. The excitement must be with us because we have spoken to or wanted to speak to the Minister for the Interior. [[Abg. Arbitrators: We raise ourselves on you, on your words!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign the other day.]] I would now like to return to the border situation. Federal Chancellor! You should know the following, because you are the head of the government: There's a chaos on the borders right now. There's a lot of money being powdered, but it's not guarded at all at all, for example, the green border. The Federal Army is represented in the south, but in the north the green border is no longer monitored at all. In the customs stations, since there is the border army, the officials have been standing on the toes. - They laugh. Go to Burgenland, where you can convince yourself. There are now two to three times as many officials as before, but the green border is not guarded, and there the illegals come to Austria. The illegals do not come across the border stations where double and triples are controlled, but they pass unhindered the green border because the Minister of the Interior is unable to establish a truly effective border protection, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As soon as the illegals are in the country, there is no longer any danger for them to be caught because there is much too little executive and no plan-quadrate. The Minister of the Interior has all been guilty of this. Mr Hatzl and Mr Häupl always called for intervention troops to be arrested – but they do not exist! When illegals are arrested, 50 percent of the room is empty. The Minister of the Interior is also responsible for this, and you, Mr Bundeskanzler, as the head of the government, of course, too! We expect you to be accountable for this today! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Once one is really to be postponed, then the Minister of the Interior is the very first to intervene, which is unlawfully intervened. Now you're going to get back to the barricades and say that I'm saying something that's not right. But I am confronting you today with an up-to-date case that happened at the Federal Police Department in Graz. The following case: In 1991 a Nigerian came across the border illegally. After many proceedings, including criminal proceedings, he was arrested in 1995. ==References== He was supposed to be pushed off July. ==References== July the foreign police in Graz received a call from the Ministry of the Interior of the Interior of a man who had been released. – This case is documented, ladies and gentlemen! There is a letter from the Federal Police Directorate Graz to the Minister of the Interior – I can make it available to you – in which one complains about the process of the Minister, in which one calls for the Minister to justify himself. This letter has remained unanswered to this day. – That's how it looks in the deportation policy! Ladies and gentlemen! We are really concerned about the foreign policy that is being made in this country. We are concerned about a policy that has too little concern for the Austrians, which creates inhumanity instead of humanity, which, instead of prosperity, reduces the standard of living which creates uncertainty instead of security. At present, a decent foreign policy means an absolute stop from immigration and the declaration that Austria is not an immigration country. And that's what we're demanding!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e2534	In response to the urgent question, the Federal Chancellor spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e2556	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! All these statements and arguments must be preceded by the fact that, since the fall of the Iron Curtain and since the outbreak of the war in the former Yugoslavia in Europe, migration movements have come to an extent as never before in this 20th century. ==References== Thus, some 19 million of the people living in Western Europe are foreigners according to the criterion of citizenship. This development has not taken place in a period of not even a decade, so that conclusions such as might have been applied ten years ago are no longer possible only because of these objective factors. Austria has a special position as a gateway to the west and as the easternmost location of Western Europe. That is why the Austrian Federal Government, together with you, the legislator, responded to these changes at the beginning of the 1990s, to these security and social challenges and created clear legal regulations for the residence and employment of foreigners in Austria. In contrast to what has just been carried out at the speaker's desk, in this context, I would like to appeal to the Federal Government and to the government parties to have contributed to a high degree of internal stability and internal peace. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Allow me, once again, to repeat the principles of which and on the basis of which we have essentially assumed in this policy: We believe that Austria is a country in which people who are subjected to persecution for political or religious reasons, because of their origin or skin color, should continue to take up and protect them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Over the past 15 years, some 50,000 people in Austria have found asylum, and we have succeeded in ensuring that inhumanely long and uncertain waiting periods in crowded refugee camps have long been part of the past – in addition, for the benefit and benefit of the domestic population. When the refugee camp in Traiskirchen was overcrowded over and over again and many refugees in this camp no longer found a reception, the local population has suffered significantly, and it is a plus, a positive for the inhabitants of this city, this area that has since become different. Secondly, Whenever and wherever people were in need or had to flee from military struggles, Austria and the Austrian population proved to be helpful, open and generous; on the occasion of the Hungarian crisis in the 1950s as well as in the downfall of Prague's spring by Soviet tanks in the 1960s. This tradition has continued in the face of the war confusion with our south-eastern neighbours. I would just like to remind you of the great joy of donations, for example for "neighborly in distress" and similar local aid programmes, or of the fact that in recent years more than 80 000 Bosnian refugees have also been admitted here in Austria. As far as Bosnia's return to its home country is concerned, the Austrian Federal Government is consciously not following the examples from our neighbourhood, which are very few successful, of a forced return. Especially with regard to the extent of the destruction in the cities and villages of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the uncertainty about the survival of relatives and friends, and the still not finally stabilised political situation, the Federal Government did not appear to be a target of humanitarian considerations to make the insecurity and fear of these suffering people become despair due to a rapid return by state forces, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, the Federal Minister for the Interior has taken the path of informing refugees about the situation in their home country and the aid in case of a voluntary return. The fact that the number of supported Bosnians – currently around 15 000 – has recently been reduced by about 100 per week seems to confirm the correctness of this decision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! The third pillar of Austrian foreign policy is the strict limitation of foreign labour movement. In particular, the aim is to respond only to the desire of the economy for foreign labour on the one hand, as well as to the efforts of host workers and immigrants on the other, insofar as this is permitted by the Austrian labour market and the domestic housing market on the other. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But you can't let in any more!]] If from the liberal side – to confirm what you just said – in the consistent continuation of the previous "foreigners out!"-The demand for a return of unemployed foreigners – in addition to a financial start-up aid – is clearly overlooked by the FP's self-proclaimed foreigners that already today the ability to take up the labour market and the chance of a job is one of the central criteria for obtaining or renewing residence permits. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] Furthermore, as far as I am aware, the model proposed by Mr Haider would cause the payment of an average annual payment of unemployment benefit as a reintegration aid to returnable foreign unemployed persons of unemployment insurance to about three times the cost of disbursement of unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: No one comes with the logic!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is not even a milkmaid bill!]] All right, milkmaid bill! I wanted to know that. You also understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Regardless of that, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a fact... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: "Milchmädchen"! But that was very anti-female!]] We're always in the same situation. You share from the speaker's mouth, and if you only hurt yourself tenderly, the bear is loose with you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're welcome!]] Not so squeezy, gentlemen! I read on posters, you trust something. Then take a little bit! You need a little thicker skin! Thick skin is good if you don't have a backbone! [[Further applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, it is also a fact of the legal situation in force today that any employee who pays social security contributions in Austria may obtain benefits and offers of mediation from this insurance regardless of his nationality. If the statements of representatives of the liberals in connection with the demand for repatriation of foreigners and the proposal for reintegration aid refer to them – I would like to pay attention! – that this should be done on a voluntary basis for the time being, this is another mosaic in the image of a rather cynical and humane access to the fellow human beings with non-Austrian citizenship, which we will continue to face with determination. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another example, ladies and gentlemen: Today's urgent request of the liberals addresses among other things the demand of Mayor Häupl for a decent foreign policy. For me, without referring to the original quote now in detail, it is clear that it means the continuation of our previous policy line of ordered accession. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He means the Löschnak policy with "decent" – not the one policy! Choose delete nak, not one!]] If Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé here speaks of a decent foreign policy, we also know what to think about it. It has made a great effort to clarify what propriety means by free interpretation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Delete Nak, not One!]] However, it is not simply a question of confessing themselves verbally to a decent foreign policy, but also of having put in place a wealth of measures and activities in order to achieve this objective in the best possible way. For example, international cooperation within the framework of the European Union and the Schengen Agreement serves, inter alia, to combat, as effectively as possible, cross-border organised crime, from trafficking in human beings, to tow-and-trailers and international drug cartels. However, we will not only need broad international cooperation in the area of security policy, but also the safeguarding of existing jobs and the creation of new jobs will increasingly require common European efforts. For this reason, the Federal Government has taken initiatives in this regard within the European Union. Similarly, the economic, social and environmental imbalances between Western and Eastern Europe and the emerging migration trends will not be eliminated by a new iron curtain, but only by close cooperation and maximum integration. At the same time, the framework established by the Federal Government and Parliament, including the Residence and Xenophobia Act, as well as the Anti-Urban Law on the effective fight against illegal employment and the Foreign Employment Act, are effective instruments to control the immigration of foreigners and to regulate their access to the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not be irritated, even if this discussion is occasionally very emotional, by the panic that has been tried at the speaker's desk today, but rather by the facts! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Fact 1: The maximum number for the year 1996 is 296,000 people. This figure already contains a reserve for bowl workers and was far from exhausted at the end of May. Fact 2: In contrast to the previous year, the number of foreigners on the labour market has fallen by more than 12,000 to 261 560. Fact 3: A large part – almost 120,000 people – of the foreigners employed in Austria has a so-called exemption permit. This requires either a five-year employment in Austria or the status of a youth in the second generation, but in any case a high degree of integration. The number of jobs permits and thus access to the labour market fell by more than 18 000 year-on-year to 44 900 at the end of May 1996. This drop by more than 25 percent shows the necessarily restrictive handling of this instrument. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these regulations are also a viable basis for meeting the new challenges that are now ahead of us. The Austrian Government will continue to give priority to an active employment policy, the fight against unemployment and the creation of new jobs. Active economic and employment policy, including at European level, has for some time been my main priority political concern and the creation of a sufficient number of qualified jobs. Small-scale and of less economic political competence, the statements and calculations of foreigners against foreigners on the labour market or even in schools do not contribute at all to achieving full employment, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is here as if there is no difference between the various works and operations. I would like to draw attention to this: If we are talking about foreign employment, we must be aware that the successful activity of some professional groups, especially in social areas, such as old-age care, in the health care sector, as well as in tourism, would no longer be possible without the use of foreign workers in Austria! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also doubtful that European integration and the closer collapse of East and West have also led to internationalization in the labour market. I felt it very positive that a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Dr. Ofner, today spoke on the main committee of the National Council of the European Integration Model as a demanding, high-level model of international union in Europe. I believe that these are the words on which you can really build a future – much more than the remarks I have heard this afternoon, unfortunately, from the speaker's desk. Thus, we are proud that Austrians are active in many management functions or as skilled workers, as employees of international organisations, as workers, as athletes and much more abroad, and are proving Austrian skills, Austrian knowledge, Austrian identity abroad on a daily basis. Similarly, it will be necessary in the future to bring key forces into the country so that companies can be established and operated in Austria. I have no doubt that foreign workers will also be needed in the future in the interests of the economy and the economy as a whole. On the other hand, it is not to be overlooked that, in recent times, the labour market's uptake capacity has been significantly reduced. The number of unemployed foreigners who have fallen significantly since the beginning of the year, namely, to some 20,000, and thus far below the public figure mentioned by Klubobmann Haider, cannot calm us down in this regard. Rather, it will be a matter of continuing to provide the Austrian economy with the urgently needed workforce, but at the same time significantly reducing the increase in the number of workers. It is a question of foreign colleagues who already live and work in Austria, who have already paid taxes and social security contributions, and thus, not least, have contributed to the prosperity of our country, to gain the opportunity of access to the labour market and not to put them in a position of merciless competition with new, cheaper workers or a wage dumping. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also about integrating them in the best possible way not only on the labour market, but also in daily social life. The assistance in learning the German language is part of this, as is regional support projects, which, for example, aim at living together people in their respective habitats, residential facilities, parks and so on. On the one hand, this will move foreign residents to an even greater extent than before, to adapt to their new housing and working environment without having to give up their personal and cultural identity, and on the other hand, the Austrian population should be given the chance to address existing concerns. It is also part of the best possible integration that people who have been working in our country for a long time can live together with their families. I believe that living together with one's own family, the concern for spouses and children in this regard is rather stabilizing. In this sense, it is also necessary to understand the basic considerations of colleagues One and Khol regarding the future treatment of family succession. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it should be noted that the Federal Government does not intend to bring additional assistants into the country, because we want to be able to give work to Austrians and where foreign workers are needed, primarily those who already want to live and work here. We will therefore continue consistently on the path of strict limitation of new immigration and, in areas where improvements to the applicable legal provisions have become necessary, also keep in mind humanity in the implementation of these laws. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! I answer the individual questions as follows: Questions 1 and 2: It cannot be used to compare our country with so-called classical immigration countries such as America or Australia, but rather it corresponds to the tradition of our country, people who are expected to contribute to society – regardless of whether this contribution exists in the creation of culture or in the provision of services in self-employed or self-employed jobs – to open up, to live, work and, if necessary, to settle here under certain controls. Since we cannot and do not want to do so in the future, we will grant a branch permit to people from other countries who are willing to provide these services in Austria. Questions 3 to 6: The decision on the Foreign Law Amendment Act is to be made on the basis of the premise described by me in autumn 1996. As far as critical comments in the assessment by the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Chambers of Workers are concerned, I assume that agreement will be reached in the discussions and discussions on this proposal. As the Federal Minister for the Interior has told me, the bodies responsible for this matter in the field of the Federal Ministry of the Interior have been consulted in the preparation of the proposal. On questions 7 and 8, I refer to my introductory remarks, as well as to questions 9 to 13, and 15 to 19. In addition, I would like to say the following: As far as the package of integration currently under negotiation is concerned, quantification is not possible. With regard to the costs so far for federal, regional and local authorities, it is not possible for me to make a statement here. With regard to the financial expenses of the Federal Government, which are beyond the competence of the Federal Chancellery, I will submit the replies in writing in agreement with the relevant bodies. I would also like to say that I am not available for a "foreign bill" for schoolchildren you obviously expect! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, the Green and the Liberal Forum.]] Question 14: The answer is no. On the question of 20 I refer to my introductory remarks. On questions 21 to 27, I would like to point out in principle that, in the course of Austria's accession to the European Union, the already existing commitments between the European Union and third countries were to be accepted. Following the examination of the EEC-Turkish Association Agreement and of many other agreements, Austria took the view that the implementation of the Agreement in Austria was in line with the general nature of the agreement. 76 procedures provided for in the Act of Accession must be ensured by appropriate protocols of accession. As you are sure, the Association Agreement refers only to workers of Turkish nationality who are already working properly domestically, who legally reside in Austria. A right to immigration to Austria under the agreement and Decision I/80 does not result in anyone. Article 7 of the Decision entitles family members legally resident in Austria for at least three years to apply for employment. Once again, I note that a right of immigration to Austria must not be derived from any provision for workers or their family members. They can assume that the necessary legal and factual steps will be carefully prepared in Austria. For legal reasons alone, Austria will take action to conclude a protocol with all EU Member States, the European Commission and Turkey, as provided for in the Act of Accession. Questions 28 to 30: With regard to the time available to me to answer your urgent question, and given that the answer to these questions requires the preparation of an extensive citizenship statistics and information of the federal states in whose competence the award of citizenship falls, I will submit these answers in a written form, because it is here that extensive surveys must be carried out. Questions 31 to 37: Austria supports the voluntary return of Bosnian war refugees in close cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the other states of the European Union and the Bosnian Government. Hiezu are offered a return advice and, if necessary, return assistance. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior, together with the federal states, supports projects that facilitate reintegration. As part of the right of residence for Bosnian citizens displaced by war, Austria allows them to enter for the purpose of exploring the actual situation in the home of the war displaced. This is all the more so than the return can only be done gradually and taking into account the local conditions. On the question of how many Bosnians have returned to their home country, there are no detailed statistics available to the Ministry of the Interior – estimates range between 3,000 and 5,000. The Ministry of the Interior has set up a Return Advisory Office to forward information on regions of origin and to provide information. In addition, the travel costs will be covered by the returnees. Organized bus transports are paid by the Ministry of the Interior and the federal states. In the field of the Ministry of the Interior, around 10 million Schilling are budgeted for these projects. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to highlight this urgent question, taking into account the fact that I still have to submit the statistical figures and submit them – a very sensitive issue of life in our Republic – and to present the position of the Austrian Federal Government. I have never claimed that this is an easy-to-handling issue or an easy-to-handling problem. However, I would like to say, in view of the very clear attacks of the founder of the urgent question to the Federal Government and to individual members of the Federal Government, that: As it has been said over and over again, 'for the benefit of the Austrians', I must say to you, Madam honourable Members, from my personal assessment: You have today held a plea for chauvinism and nationalism! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This century is evidence that nationalism is creating war, that nationalism is destroying countries and that nationalism is destroying peoples. – To cause that, I don’t have to admit that you’re not important enough. But now I know why, in every second sentence, you say that you are pursuing a decent policy and we have to say, without interruption, in every second sentence, that it is decent, it is a suspicion that it is not at all. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you say it!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: An incredible naughtiness!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Say the head, and the heads like the nail.]] – And that is the merit of your urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e2836	We are now going into the debate. The speaking times in the debate shall not exceed 15 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Dr. Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e2863	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, I am particularly speaking to you, because you have in itself made us a great compliment, a compliment that has been underlined by your comments. The reason for and permission of this special session was made clear by no one as clear as you did by admitting that you really have no idea of the cost of this integration package, which Mr One has negotiated with Mr Khol and which is intended to bring more than 150,000 immigrants to Austria. A few weeks ago, the chancellor, in his government statement, said: Every law has to be tested precisely for its costs, before there can be no legislative initiatives at all!, lets an initiative involving billions of money – for schools, for kindergartens, for housing – and it has no idea what this really costs. You have already made it clear how right the present intervention of the liberals in the matter of foreign policy is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! As far as your figures are concerned: I have the official numbers of the labour market service. They are talking about the decrease in the number of jobs for foreigners. I'll read to you: Prepared number of foreigners: 273 975, Federal maximum for 1996 263 000, with the increase now prescribed by the Social Minister, you come to 296 000. Or the highest number of countries: 205 500 employment permits, in fact, were granted but 317,000 – that is 54 percent more than was determined. You're gonna make yourself up there and say, That's not a problem! I should like to remind you that your own trade union friends - I have to point this out back now - have not been calling for too long for a reduction in the number of guest workers, with the headline: [[the speaker shows a copy towards the government bank]] "Employment calls for the reduction of host workers". [[Abg. May. Stadler: These are chauvinists!]] The same Federal Chancellor says: We will see that employment conditions will be strengthened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I tell you one thing, Federal Chancellor: If you accept this and say that is all right, but the liberals say that we have too much foreign employment and too many foreigners in Austria, we have to think about a reduction, and then you reply: That's nationalism!, then you didn't understand your responsibility as Federal Chancellor! Awareness of Austria means being patriotically responsible for the country and for the people and not for abroad. And that's the policy we want to do here. This is the policy to which you should confess! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Their actions are careless, reckless and reckless towards the Austrians. There are already a million foreigners with us, and the one-khol package would, according to Vorarlberg's estimates, bring at least 153,000 immigrants – in Vorarlberg, an ÖVP government was led by an ÖVP head of state. 153,000 additional immigrants! And in view of that, you go here and say, That's not a problem! Federal Chancellor! I should like to draw your attention to the fact that a few days ago the trade union itself spoke of the danger of suffering wage cuts, that there is a wage dumping due to a lack of foreign policy, that Mr Vergestnich himself has urged us to fight wage-reduction, to eliminate the competition of foreigners and domestics. [[Abg. May. Stadler: such a chauvinist!]] You can't say: It's all paletteti! – Go Once out of your ivory tower, devote yourself to the real problems of this country, see how it is in the economy today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is, of course, a competition for displacement. If, on average, we are going to have 270 000 unemployed in this year and around 270 000 foreigners are there, this is a competition for displacement – whether it suits you or not. They then decide on a package of savings and note that we can no longer afford family allowances, have to reduce the amount of pay, delete birth grants, and much more. And the Federal Chancellor says: Because we cannot afford to do so, the Austrian families have to exercise restraint and get deeper into the bag. On the other hand, he says: We let in a few thousand – children, mothers who are all insured who want kindergartens. Ask the union! 220,000 kindergartens are missing in Austria, and then we bring in 50 000 or 70 000 children who also need kindergartens – that is, in my opinion, not responsible! If you invite someone to come here, but not the conditions for him to be able to live here humanly, it is not responsible, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are talking about the fact that it is not a problem on the labour market to bring young foreigners who want to make a teaching job, but the same federal government does not make it possible to provide teaching places for the Austrians. Mr Schieder! 35 percent less apprenticeships are available this year thanks to this Federal Government. And then there are thousands who also need an apprenticeship, which means that the Austrian apprentices must struggle with the foreign apprentices around the training places, because the government has not created the necessary conditions. Is that the social peace you want to create? I therefore believe that we liberals are right to do so if we tell you that you have to make a turnaround in foreign policy. But we note that the Federal Chancellor has said today that this one-in-one integration model is now being implemented, but we are still talking a little bit, but it is going through. – I say to you: There will be They reap our bitter resistance and also those of the entire population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You seem to be a pretty unimaginable person, as you have defended this today. The mildest thing I still grant you is a lack of understanding. You have never really looked at this package, Mr. Federal Chancellor! For in the review process it is said: 153,000 foreigners more in Austria in the next four years – no less, as you said. If you say a quota rules all of this, I'll tell you: Whoever reads the law and also looks at the draft and the assessment, it will be hoped that the detour of asylum seekers' status will enable everyone to obtain a permanent residence permit outside the quota. Those who look at the draft know that wrong arguments are being made regarding family integration. This is not required under the European Convention on Human Rights. Those who look at the draft know that all the illegals in Austria are to be legalized by this measure. Federal Chancellor! Do you want to legalize 250 000 foreigners who are illegally residing in Austria, if nothing, you? This is what you have defended here today, and we are fighting it quite massively, because work must first be created for the Austrians and the people living here and not for those who are not legally resident in the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] That was the criticism. The federal states have experienced devastating criticism, the ÖGB has been criticizing, the Chambers of Workers have been criticizing, the Ministry of the Interior has practiced criticism. I would like to remind you here on the one hand, where the opinions of the federal states of Vorarlberg and Upper Austria refer to the strengthening of foreign immigration. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have internal papers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! And then the Federal Chancellor goes here and says: We're making an employment offensive, that's all going on. Forget You do not ask that Mr Vergestnich – he is the trade union president – said a few days ago: The government should do more for jobs. He said: We are being treated as if we needed only low wages and all our problems would be solved. And then he added: At the ECOFIN meeting of EU Finance Ministers, jobs were once again only a secondary issue. The same Chancellor, who makes this a secondary issue at the European Conferences, is here in Parliament and says: We will solve all of this in pan-European terms! Federal Chancellor! You have responsibility here for the Austrians, for the Austrian population! Don't flee to Europe, make it It is an economic policy which creates employment, creates dynamics and does not produce unemployment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A Anton Benya, who was a guest at the debate today, would not have liked to have Mr. Vergestnich, put off by saying: We are still making the integration package, even though your massive concerns have been raised! Even the SPD-Klubobmann Scharping has recently said: In a country where there are four million unemployed, it makes no sense to grant 800,000 work permits to foreigners. For the first time, the German worker must be given the right to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing easier than that. You could do this here, too. The Federal Chancellor, however, announces an employment offensive that is not, and says today in the Press Office: We need so many foreigners because Austrian workers no longer take on all the work to be done. – That’s really the biggest naughtiness! If you go to "Milchfritz" in Vienna, you will be surprised that there are almost only foreigners working there in themselves good payment, only a disappearingly low percentage of Austrians. Go to the construction industry, talk to the construction workers, the people will tell you: The separation allowance deletes us, the direct and chord allowance deletes us, 7 000, 8 000, 9 000 S loss of income, because we are threatened with being replaced by cheaper foreigners. – You have no idea how things look in reality today! And that's what we blame you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Those who oppose it are immediately declared to be spiritually overnight. Mr. Khol had the union executed once – if I correctly quote the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' – that all the safeguards had been burned by the union because it criticized Mr. One's wonderful integration package. – If the construction workers at the main table said that the screws have become a little looser, because they make this package, you would also complain. So we are talking about the things they really are, then we come to the conclusion that there is basically a connection here that is dangerous. They say that we are going to act restrictively, but in reality, in the last five years alone, 50 000 people have become new Austrian citizens in Vienna, due to the early award of citizenship, in order to make it easier for them to come to municipal homes via this detour. That's the dirty thing to work with! It is said that Austria is not an immigration country. That's what the Federal Chamber of Commerce says in an advertisement, that's what the countries of Vorarlberg and Tyrol say, that's what the ÖGB says. – Mr Khol claims at once that Austria is an immigration country. Mr Swoboda says on the basis of a study that more than 6,000 immigrants do not stop Vienna – in recent years it has been 25 000, and with the one package we want to reach 35 000! I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: That's dangerous! And I also tell you why you're making this policy: Because you know that the Austrians will give you less and less confidence, you will create a new people here in Austria. 9,000 additional citizenships in Vienna are a reliable mandate that you are creating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] And you're also doing propaganda. But I'm telling you: Before you begin to exchange the people, we will promote you to be exchanged, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's a beautiful Arab leaflet I don't want to keep from you. The title is – I quote – as follows: "Achi l – c ́arabi ukhti l – c arabiya madha yuridu Dr. Haider wa – hizbuhu mina c – ajanib." [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] – Do you know what that means? It means: "What does Haider, dear Arab sisters and brothers have to do with foreigners? He claims that he will no longer approve of early citizenship" – clearly, that we criticize – "he has the premise that he will not approve of the family estate. Therefore you must choose all SPÖs." – This is how propaganda is done: Choose all SPÖ! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is your exchange program, ladies and gentlemen! We are against the fact that the Austrians are being pushed aside and a immigration policy is being made, which is being carried out on the back of the working population in Austria. We are going to act against that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: Very deep!]] Federal Chancellor! If we're already there: They have said that this reintegration of foreigners does not come into question. I ask you: Why, for example, was there the headline: "Highest time for return premium"? This is what the Socialist Group in the Chamber of Workers said. "Make return aid to AK claims". So for the help of return! [[Call the Freeman:Lauter Chauvis!]] "Return premium is supported" – by your negotiator in Vorarlberg, Mr Herbert Sausgruber. He's for the return premium, so also a chauvinist, also such a bad alien hater. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Another chauvinist!]] I would recommend, Mr Bundeskanzler, to check whether you really want to be Chancellor of the Austrians. Because if you want to be that, then you will have to try to look first at your own people and not to make politics that will be carried out on the back of the unemployed, on the back of the hard-working people in this country, just to create a new electorate that you may choose in the future if the Austrians fail to trust you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3071	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3092	Mr Haider! I would like to take up your last words and say: This Federal Chancellor is the Chancellor of the Austrians, and he is a Federal Chancellor who is not ashamed of this country and does not regard it as an ideological miscarriage as you do! [[Contradict with the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I understand that in politics we sometimes have to be ready for certain simplifications, but we also have to say: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Arabs in the Socialist Party!]] There are terrible simplifications, there are those that become distortions, errors. And there are the terrible simplifiers who become demagogens. Your question today and today's speeches have been an example. I just want to take out a little facet: In question 14, for example, it is very harmless to ask whether there is a substantive link between the demand of Mrs Konrad for an additional kindergarten billion and the expected integration package. – Mrs Partik-Pablé knows of course that this question is absurd. But the method is precisely to try senseless links. This means that xenophobia is linked to animosity, and you should be ashamed of it, Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This request repeatedly refers to the interests of Austrian workers. Let me say quite clearly, Mr Haider: The interests of Austrian workers are not represented by those who create hysteria and unrest in this country. The interests of all Austrians are represented by those who are working calmly and successfully to ensure that Austria today is economically better than almost any other European country, that Austria is a sought-after location for large international investments that will ensure the future of jobs, that in Austria we ensure that our workers are well trained, that a structural change has been started in Austria, which actually benefits everyone and makes it possible to take advantage of the opportunities in Europe. That's why it's about working together for all the people in Austria – not to play one group against the other. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ellwall.]] However, I would like to add something that will probably also play a role in the course of this debate: There is the side of those who fear foreigners with precepts, as is the case here in this question. However, there is also another side which is based on well-respected moral principles, but whose transmission would be without regard to the actual consequences. We Socialists see ourselves here in the duty of a responsibilities ethics, as the German Chancellor Vranitzky described here in his answer to his question. That clearly means: We stand in foreign policy at the level of reason of the middle: as much openness as possible, as much restriction as necessary – and in the interest of all the people affected by it in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the essential points of the foreign question – that is, in relation to relations with our foreign fellow human beings – is that this is an area that has many dimensions; and I would like to address some of these dimensions. The first thing that touches me here is the human dimension. I would like to remind you of a word by Friedrich Dürrenmatt, who said: We've called for labour, people have come. It is people who work not only but also people who also have relatives. We also see on the basis of the statistics: The dynamics in the foreign sector today is not based on the labour market, but on the development of the residential population. This is a development that is not an Austrian specification. It is so in virtually all the rich countries of Europe. It concerns the human aspects of those who come, but of course it also concerns – and this is just as important to us – the human aspects of those who are here, that is, those who have their home in this country, in their special area, in their community, in their streets. In this situation of different expectations and different forms of life, fears must not be shaken. It is necessary to convey security and humanity to all people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are aware that this requires certain restrictions, both on the labour market and on the living population. The task of reducing fears and conveying security is, in particular, an integration task. Such a thing cannot be ordered, that must develop, must rest in order to develop. Especially where these problems occur particularly strongly, for example in the cities, responsible local politicians are working on this policy of conversation – in Vienna, for example, by Michael Häupl, in Linz by Franz Dobusch. I can say from my own experience: We are planning a foreign advisory board in Linz. Unfortunately, this is still blocked by the FPÖ and also by the ÖVP. It is about developing forms of conversation, it is about information, it is about reducing fear, and it is not about gnawing fear as the FPÖ does. I must say that it was quite absurd when the Members of this House today spoke of a São-Paulo-Horrorszenario - and I must support the FPÖ Group - that some Members have at least dared to limit this. So a little independent thinking has been preserved by some. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economic dimension: We have about 8 percent foreign labour on the labour market. What you need to know about one thing: The labour market is not a single market, there are very different people – in terms of skills, training and so on. It cannot be simply exchanged with the other. I totally agree with what an important business expert has said – I quote literally –: "To believe to be able to combat high unemployment by reducing foreigners is the dumbest milkmaid bill I've ever heard." – This statement was made on 5 May. ==References====External links==* Official website When he is here again, Mr. Prinzhorn should perhaps talk to the "Milchmädchen" Jörg Haider about it. However, I would like to address another point. Of course, in the economic and also in the general political interest, we must prevent the abuse of foreign labour as a wage-pressor, as an industrial reserve army. It would be wrong to simply say that the trade unions should see to it that ordinary wages are paid. It is precisely this task that the trade unions took over years ago. One must clearly see that the labour market works according to market rules: If supply increases and demand remains constant, of course, there will be pressure on effective earnings, which trade unions can, although they can never completely prevent. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here! And we need more work?]] I'm still coming to your arguments. You'll see exactly that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's right what you say!]] Wait a minute! We need to see where the constellations of interest lie. For the business side, it is always desirable to demand more foreign employees and transfer the social costs of integration to the state. It has not been a long time since a prominent entrepreneur meant: We need labour like a bite of bread! - Who was it? – The president of the FPÖ, Principalhorn, on 5 May. ==References== Mr. Stadler! Apparently there is a need for explanation in their own ranks, which you should eliminate before you occur demagogically here. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What you are offering here is trade union policy, but the government is not responding to it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to address other aspects of foreign policy now. It is important to have serious, calm, concrete discussions here. It is important to have a policy of continuity, of predictability that one does not vary from one extreme to another depending on the mood. It is true that, for example, the euphoria of the eastern opening and a short inter-juncture of massive pressure arose on the opening of the labour market. The social minister was massively criticized at that time, and the result was that in the years 1989 to 1991, in other words, within two years, we had a flow of nearly 100,000 foreign workers. This was, of course, more so than can be achieved in the long term. We are now experiencing the aftereffects of these tensions. The FPÖ referred to this development in its request. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! But you have forgotten a "smallness" in your presentation of this development: Their own role in this development. From a wealth of broadcasts from this time that I have chosen, I would like to read to you only two. Haider Press Conference of 11. May 1990, Haider said: "In contrast to all other statements, labour market management on the issue of employment permits is still in no way cooperative. He knows numerous examples, says Haider, where foreigners, for example, could be employed in restaurants in Carinthia, but did not receive work permits." [[Abg. Madl: Six years ago, there was another situation!]] – You’re right, because you’re coming. The Federal Board of the Ring In June 1990, the liberal economic operator adopted a resolution which reads as follows: "The current economic upturn in Austria is causing an increasing need for labour in economic and social areas, which the domestic labour market can no longer satisfy." [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That was 1986!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the classic FPÖ strategy: In front of Kärntner Gastwirten more foreign employees are required, and in Vienna one makes an anti-Ausländer-Wahlkampf. That's politics, Haider, pure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government, on the other hand, has responded wisely and correctly, and today we have seen a development that meets the actual requirements. I call you the specific numbers: In 1995 a total of 15 000 initial applications for employment were made, of which 7 000 were harvest workers, 1 300 were people we need as managers from abroad, and the rest were second generation, that is, people who have been here since their childhood, in Austrian schools. I believe that you too agree that it is reasonable to give these people the opportunity to take a foothold in Austria, to work in Austria, and not to be condemned as a last resort. - So much to the numbers. You have to look at these figures specifically before you develop horror scenarios à la São Paulo and the like here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we know that we live in a world of enormous differences in prosperity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a study of the municipality of Vienna! "São Paulo" comes from a study by the municipality of Vienna, not from us!]] I think you're confusing São Paulo with St. Pauli, that's probably your problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You should take a closer look at the studies! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Wiener SPÖ says that! Hatzl and Svihalek are not liberals!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What our country and what its inhabitants need is not to incite hysteria, not to incite resentment, but to be honest! To be honest, one last comment is a special pikanery: Mrs Partik-Pablé has said here today that the intervention force against illegal workers is toothless. – So that can't be true, because it's been a long time since it caught a lot of people illegally engaged – it was a significant part of the FPÖ people. Interestingly, until now no other party had to withdraw so many officials because they had engaged illegally foreigners. I recall the case of the countryman Engl, who had to resign because of illegal foreign employment. That was only in October 1995, so it's not long ago. And now in the summer of 1996 you want to have a foreign campaign in Vienna! I remember City Councillor Ruthofer, who was on your National Council list in Wolfsberg and employed illegal foreigners. The particularly empathetic and piante lies in the fact that there has been no treatment for four years with the county's captain, who is now FPÖ's countryman. That is to say, when it comes to matters involving FPÖ officials, black employment is obviously a cavalier crime. That's not how you're supposed to play it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is also a dimension of the foreign question: the question of personal credibility, the question of personal propriety.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3284	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3299	I would like to conclude with a quote from the great Churchill: "Since you as a politician never know how what you do will affect you, you can do the decent thing." – Mr Haider, how about you trying it like that?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3330	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3351	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For a long time, Austria was a country of migration itself. Burgenländer, Tyroleans had to emigrate into it until the 1970s. Today, the social market economy has brought us a wealth to which all citizens have contributed. Today, no one has to emigrate from Austria, but it is the object of the wishes of many who want to work and live in our social market economy. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In the high economy we needed strangers: for dirty work, heavy work, low wage work. We have called workers, and people have come, as once aptly formulated. I think it's up to all of us to recognize that. We have called workers, but there have been people who have a right to be treated humanly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1992 we took into account the fact that the Federal Chancellor also pointed out: The borders have risen, and Central and Eastern Europe have faced a new situation. Then, suddenly, there was also the despicable and fatal conflict in the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud of the fact that the Austrians have shown their eyes, but also their hearts, at this time. For I have rarely heard that someone complained when Austria helped in the Balkans and when we helped the people who fled from the war in distress and distress. In this case, our fellow citizens have really helped with an open hand and with an open heart. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In 1992 we jointly decided to re-establish this coalition government's right of residence, foreign law and asylum law, in accordance with the principles developed between Minister Lösnak and our security spokespersons, including Paul Kiss. We still stand by the fact that, according to the economic situation and the unemployment rate in Austria, we need the immigration of foreigners for the maintenance of many things if there is not enough labour in Austria. We only want to allow an addition if there is work and housing and if it takes place within the quota. We stand by these guidelines of the Federal Government's foreign and asylum policy of 1992. These should also be observed in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In October 1995 there was an intermezzo. The new Minister for the Interior has introduced an integration package that the People's Party could not agree to. It was said at the time: If the integration package, which was not agreed with us, comes into the Committee on the Interior, we shall withdraw. That was last October. The Minister for the Interior did not present this package of integration, because we did not and did not want to agree to this general change of good foreign and asylum policy. At the time, the Minister of the Interior wanted to release the family estate completely. He wanted the application in the country. He also wanted to include full-year-old children in the family estate. He only wanted to show the criminals if they were legally sentenced to at least two years of punishment, so they were severely criminal and repeaters. He wanted to give papers to those who have no IDs. That is, as we know, a well-known method of avoiding the right of foreigners. He wanted to abolish the third country clause de facto and also the shortened asylum procedure. For these reasons we have not been able to agree. We have prevented this and have negotiated a new package since then. The package we have negotiated is more stringent on the one hand and more humane on the other. We also want to respect these principles in the design of foreign and asylum rights in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Family estate in the quota. There are misunderstandings in this respect, especially in the federal states. Yes, how does the quota come about? The quota is calculated on the basis of the maximum number fixed by the Federal Government regulation with the agreement of the main committee and on the basis of requests from the countries. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Already covered by 54 percent!]] So if a country makes the request that it does not want a move, then there is no move. I remember the last quota regulation, where, for example, the country of Vorarlberg said that the quota for Vorarlberg was too high, it wanted 1,000 less. As a result, 1,000 less were taken into account. So there are misunderstandings here. The family estate depends, of course, on deadlines, on the duration of the stay and whether a family life is actually taken. It does not refer to married full-time children, nor to grandparents, but only to the core family in the narrowest area and must lie within the quota, which is staggered regionally and which corresponds to the wishes of the countries responsible for enforcement. I think this is a reasonable regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also do not understand some of the questions raised by the free movement of persons. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I think so!]] If you read foreign law and the right of residence, you will notice that there is an intensification in terms of crime and inability to work or abuse of our social system. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Sausgruber sees this differently!]] Sausgruber doesn't see everything. This too is possible. – This means that inadvertents, unmediable, who abuse the system, will not receive and be postponed, even slightly criminal repeaters, no work permit, no residence permit. So that means: All that excites our fellow citizens' displeasure – the abuse of our system, the non-working will if one can work, shoplifts, violence, alcohol at the wheel in the repeat case – all these crimes will be punished in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What are you talking about? It's not in the law!]] It's in the law. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No! This is the smooth untruth! Everything is not in the law! The smooth untruth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also want a new regime with regard to the asylum process – we have also enforced it. There is a clear rules on asylum at the border in the asylum process. We will meet the wishes of the refugee-carriage organisations and the UN High Commissioner and we will introduce a legal remedy in this area, but we will also have this right of asylum on: Only those who seek protection from persecution and are really persecuted should be protected! to make a decision in the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, consent to this new integration package. It's wearing our handwriting. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 153,000 immigrants carry the ÖVP's manuscript! You can't stand that anymore!]] With regard to family integration, I would like to say something to Mrs Partik-Pablé: I have also looked at the case of Gül against Switzerland at the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to say the following, Mrs Partik-Pablé: You are a lawyer, and you know that you can only compare comparable things. The Gül case is not a case of family retirement from someone who works in Switzerland and has a residence permit for work and wants his family to comply with it, but it is the case of an invalidity pensioner who has stayed in Switzerland for humanitarian reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can't explain this with the 153,000 immigrants now, my dear friend!]] He does not work in Switzerland, has no residence permit, but is only there for humanitarian reasons. Therefore, this case cannot be compared with the 120 000 guest workers in Austria who have a license of exemption who pay taxes and social insurance here and who, if they are here for a long time, of course – like any other human being – have the right to family life. You can't agree to this fundamental right to a person if he's integrated if he wants to stay permanently – and that's what I'm standing for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What does co-insurance cost, colleague Khol?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore eliminate misunderstandings and take into account the assessment results. We will try to comply with the suggestions that foreign law should also include the right of residence. We will re-establish the right to asylum, so that it is clear. We will be in the Committee on 20 November. On the basis of information provided by the Ministry of the Interior on June, a detailed discussion has been held. We will take account of the suggestions, send out a new draft assessment and then consult with the countries and social partners again. But one thing I'm telling you: Our aim will be to decide on a human rights-able right to the wishes of the decent Austrian asylum and foreign law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: The decent Austrians!]] The decent Austrians, that is the majority of the Austrians, these are the people who have donated for Bosnia, these are the people who appear to the host workers with open hearts, those are the people who do not hate strangers, those are the people who recognize that the entire health care system would collapse without the participation of foreigners, who know precisely that we need these people in road construction, in far-reaching areas of our economy, and who act according to the principle: We have called workers, people have come, and we treat these people like people and are not chauvinists. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not true at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I don't like very much is what is commonly called "drinking water and drinking wine." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Höchtl!]] And I would like to ask the Group of the European Free Alliance what they have to say about the newspaper report of the "Small Newspaper" of Saturday, 15. June 1996, says. The Labour Inspectorate and the Food Police have been working in the Krumpendorfer Kropfitsch-Bad, which the FPÖ has leased. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Just not!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: No! That's wrong!]] And that's what it says in the "Small Newspaper": "While holiday guests were outraged, government representatives took the FPÖ bath and the employees to the fore. Three of the employees are foreigners who, according to the managing director, probably do not even have a work permit." [[Aha-Rufe near SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – That is preaching water and drinking wine! I think we should also pursue a fair policy in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3617	Mr Haider referred to an actual correction. I would ask you, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, to deal with the facts to be corrected and with those which have been corrected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3647	Why is there such an excitement? I haven't said anything yet. Bad nerves?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol has made the claim that the liberals have a lease company in which they employ black workers and foreigners. I'll put it right: We don't have a lease company that employs foreigners and black people.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3687	A personal response is not possible in the sense of the usual handling of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Khol, you know that you have not been mentioned in the corrected case. - We always have the same practice. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We'll discuss this. I will continue in the speaker list: The next speaker is Dr. Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3743	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on today's urgent is an advance on the day after tomorrow. This morning, which has already been suggested, and I say it again, a meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, which is to deal with this matter, will take place with how it should be reformed. That's what I wanted to mention. In the case itself, however, it is the result of the policy of the Federal Government in recent years. What has not yet been clearly mentioned: Foreign laws were passed in 1992/93, which in many respects were more than unsatisfying, but not only unsatisfying, but also punctuated the results of human rights and which actually created a situation with which one cannot be satisfied in any way. We Liberals in particular, since we have been in this Parliament as a political group, have repeatedly called for reforms in the area of foreign rights, for reform in the field of asylum rights, for which we finally bring standards of human rights and eliminate conditions, particularly those of the people concerned whom we have called for - I am very conscious of the statements made by Mr Khol, but also by Mr Novotny, both of whom have used this quote - and have partly pushed it into illegality before they have noticed it. The need for reform in this area is overwhelming. But what was the result of these then alien laws? – The finding was that, as it is today – and this is also the interesting – the Liberal Group at the time called for a massive increase in the burden of human rights on foreigners. Finally, in the well-known foreign people's desire with the macabre title "Austria first!" The urgent question is also interesting. In part, it reads itself as a kind of praise for some of what the Federal Government has done. Federal Minister Lösnak is expressly praised. It means: "Freedom of movement was realized by attacking the extension of the border guard force and introducing an obligation to issue a certificate" – and so on and so on. However, it seems that the Federal Government was not consistent enough, and now it may even be apparent that it is becoming even more ineffective because it is forced to act under the pressure of the facts, under the pressure of the fact that Austria is no longer recognized as a safe third country in the opinion of the UNHCR. That is to say, a United Nations opinion has stated that in Austria, human rights standards are no longer guaranteed and that it is therefore impossible to move refugees back to Austria. Under this pressure, the Federal Government may change something. We don't know what's going to come out yet. I am referring to Klubobmann Khol, who has completely promised a reform package which is compatible with human rights. You'll see what's really coming. In any case, something is moving, and that may have been the reason for this urgent request. Otherwise it is difficult to explain that, on the one hand, what is stated in the law is praised, on the other hand, the effects which have come out of it are so reproached by the liberal speakers. Some remarkable sentences have been made, for example – literally, according to my contribution – spoke of the "empty speech of the indivisible human rights". I think that has to be quoted again. What is "the empty speech of the indivisible human rights"? Or another quote: "A child costs 1 million schilling." – Are we in a country where people are assessed as a cost factor of this kind? What does a person cost when a child costs 1 million schilling? Is that an average? What's that supposed to mean? Does that mean that you have to eliminate this child if you want to save these 1 million? What's that supposed to mean? – And this against the background of demographic development, where everyone knows that it is a pure dispute about words whether Austria is a country of immigration or not, a dispute over labels. In fact, we need immigration, for demographic reasons alone. We are in a happy position to be one of the richest countries in Europe and to need people, so we do not even have to take up people because it is not different, but because we need them. – So we can be human and help ourselves. I mean, that's certainly not the most unpleasant situation you can be in. If the resistance of the liberals is now so massively directed, in particular, against family integration, which is undisputed by human rights – only the liberals are reserved to call the Human Rights Commission non-existent – then I wonder what the alternative should be. The liberals believe that there should be an immigration stop, no immigration, especially no family integration, that is, no children coming with their parents who are strangers. That is to say, in consequence, if one has the demographic development in mind to drive the domestic birth rates up, that is, perhaps to think of the "mother cross"! That's what I'm telling you: These children, if you already expect the same million, will cost you the same million, but you may be "foreign" to pick up your words, and you won't like that. But I can't understand how a party like yours seems suddenly to be against the "Ver-Pavkowiczung" of Austria. Think about what I said! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Another quote from colleague Partik-Pablé – it's just too important to me – is: It has argued that it is the thesis of people who advocate a human foreign policy; it is important that there is an economic and political balance between the rich countries of Europe, in particular perhaps the core countries in the EU, and the countries in transition, such as the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Poland, Slovakia or Hungary. It would be a reasonable way to reduce migration here, which is likely to take place for reasons of despair. In the division of the liberals, people who desperately strive for a new basis of existence and move on to migration are just emigrate, "economic refugees". You have to do it for existential reasons and not just because they might want to have five instead of two cars and therefore come here. These are people in a serious existential crisis. It is therefore perfectly logical and reasonable to see economic and political balance as a means of sound foreign policy and also cooperation with neighbours. No one is so naive to assume that it is a process that can be implemented overnight that the standard of living in our neighbouring countries will be the same as we do tomorrow. It may well be hoped that political conditions will continue to develop and stabilise. But to use this as a negative argument against a foreign policy aimed at integration is not at all understandable, because, of course, in these countries too, democracy will develop according to the standards we show by the citizens of these countries. Faith You're me! When we present to the citizens of these countries who come to us what a rule of law means in the understanding of Austria, what is called human rights in Austrian practice, what we are doing, what push prisons in Austria mean – six months ultimately without a reason for imprisonment; the only reason is the easier "operability" of this person, that if one wants to postpone him – if these people are constantly presented, it will not help to ensure that democracy in their home countries develops rationally and self-confidently, and perhaps the economic order also shows positive effects. Then we are trendsetters in the abuse of human rights, and this has a strong effect on the environment, because we then develop a negative model effect. But all of this doesn't seem to be interested. Against this background, of course, it is painful to read an interview such as that of Mayor Häupl, in which he did not, in the context presented by the Chancellor, formulate the word of a decent foreign policy, which the liberals could then use as a headline for this urgent request. Because if one has read carefully the interview of Mayor Häupl in the "Press", one has seen very well that he is concerned with the topic leadership in a very specific foreign policy, which is only a little more gentlely formulated, but is being deported just as little children, just as the people are dealing with it, as it seems to be the current foreign law. Therefore, if the Foreign Law and the regulations created in 1992/93 have been praised in this urgent question, then it is enough to criticise this Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In no way has Häupl spoken about the reform of these laws, but only about a perhaps more practicable application. And that's something else. In fact, being decent does not pay attention to the media effect in the sense of public relations, but rather takes responsibility in these areas in order to be misunderstood even in the mass media. When it comes to human dignity, you have to buy it. - Heupl apparently not! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Therefore, the copyright for the second part of the heading of the freedom question has been gladly given to Mr Mayor Häupl by me, because I think he has lost himself in an interview in this sense. It has also come in this interview or today no word about the harmonisation of residence rights and permission to work here. This is the real problem of the reform of the rights of foreigners – regardless of the fact that everyone knows, of course, that we have to regulate migration immigration, that, of course, if there is no other point of contact, for example, which is called refugee, which, for example, means family integration, which means, for example, study, need quotas, and that we cannot simply say: Everyone is right, indifferent as many. We also need quotas for our own citizens out of discipline. That is completely undisputed. Only the zero rate of the so-called non-immigration country will not be able to do so, because one must not forget: Much more than 200 000 Austrians are in a reziprok position, that is, strangers abroad and work there. It can't be that we bring the Austrians home and "bring back" the non-Austrian citizens living here – that's what I think, right now, isn't it? – I have been looking for the word, because understanding of what is stated in this request is clearly meant to "remove". But it is unlikely that we will have to reunite Europe from national viewpoints, so to speak, to organize ethnic cleansing by means of premiums. I see nothing else behind this proposal by colleagues from the Freedom Party. Ethnic cleansing through premiums is that. And we reject that! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That does not mean, however, that where we are clearly war refugees who live here with us and, in case of doubt, want to return to several, we do not have to consider what we really can do in order to do something in the reconstruction of Bosnia. But whether this is the premium that we are putting into the hands of the individual Bosnian is still to be discussed. I believe that the reconstruction in Bosnia will be more complex than simply, at the earliest possible time, to place the refugees with a pack of thousands of people in their hands at the border. There will be a need for concepts, perhaps a little more money will be needed if we want to do something about reconstruction. That is why I believe that when you approach the issues with this access, it is simply too transparent, just as the beautiful defense of the Federal Government, what it has done already. These benefits will only have to be provided, we will see what actually comes out in the foreign laws, in the novels also to the asylum law, because the asylum law, Mr Klubobmann Khol, as provided for in the current integration package, is not re-ordered according to the standards of any human rights. The simple return on the border will not be possible. I therefore believe that if the central point, namely the right of residence and the right to seek work here, if the foreign rights and the foreign employment law are not harmonised, then next year, the next year, the next year and every year, we will have such a debate again, then we will be able to put the Freedom Party in a position to pole here with Scheina arguments, which are partly correct but at the core wrong, and then we will not make a positive contribution to integration. My invitation to the Federal Government would be: Take your heart in hand! The next morning in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is an opportunity to do something. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where was your solution? Where was your solution?]] Mr Schweitzer! If you are calling for solutions here in the context of an urgent debate, please...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3800	Deputies! The speaking time is over. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: May I speak a final sentence?]] - Half a sentence, yes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3827	If you want solutions here at the end of my speaking time, then this is your style! I thank you for your rudeness.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3865	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3887	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! So far, I have always assumed that it is only Member of Parliament who succeeds in driving the Federal Government or the coalition parties before him. Some of them have already been made clear by the debate that it is indeed the case that he has succeeded in actually cutting off and saying all the points with the foreign people's desire – with the exception of the ID: We've achieved this. But there is obviously someone else who manages to drive Mr Haider ahead of him. Yesterday, in a broadcast of "Report-Bayern-Munich" I was able to follow with interest that the Germans are facing a great division, in front of a great division into a right-wing extremly wing led by the Austrian Burch "Olympia" and a wing that, so to speak, wants to represent the democratic camp of the citizens. In this report there have also been talks of two burgers, including the "Olympia" Burschenschaft. It has also been stated that they have submitted applications to the Birthday. These applications to the Burschen Day include the request that the Austrian Federal Government and the coalition parties be requested by the German citizens, that is, by this extreme right-wing circle, that, first, no further foreigners be employed, with few exceptions – for example, the tenor of this decision – and second, a policy of gentle repatriation by the Austrian Federal Government. – A policy of gentle reintroduction! That is exactly what we are negotiating today, Mr Haider. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Vorarlberg Socialists demanded this! The SPÖ Vorarlberg demanded that!]] They are obviously the one who accepts the orders from the Germans. Mr Stadler! I understand that you have reason to express yourself now. They are also a member of these German citizens in Austria, who have been presented in this presentation by "Report-Bayern" as a right-wing organization. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are wrong-informed! You've been misinformed!]] Right-wing Germans are German citizens, because of the fact that some member organizations are already dissociating from these German citizens. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The SPÖ Vorarlberg is unfortunately not in the German Burschenschaft!]] These are far-right organizations. If you are making policies together with far-right organizations, that is a clear language. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Workers' Chamber – Right-wing organization?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] I should just like to remind you, Mr Haider, that a few years ago we were here in the High House and also outside the FPÖ, not to hear the return, the gentle, the more or less gentle integration back into the country of origin, but the stop of foreigners. Now we're one step further, now you're already where Le Pen was two or three years ago. Now you are there, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, where the Republicans have always been in the Federal Republic. Now you are where all the far right-wings in Europe were. You are committed to it yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that the European Parliament has condemned Deputies Haider and Le Pen in a joint resolution as those who are not known for nationalism and chauvinism in Austria but in Europe as a whole. They were sentenced by the European Parliament. They are committed to the fact that, not only in Austria, but at international level, we are represented by leaders of a party that is considered to be far-right, chauvinistic and nationalistic, ladies and gentlemen! This is your policy that you have pursued in recent years. Mr Haider, together with Mr Le Pen and Mr Schönhuber, are in a row. I would just like to say the following: There has been a clear position long before you on the foreign question – long before you! That was in the NSDAP program. Whoever is not a citizen should be able to live only as a guest in Germany and must be subject to foreign legislation, it was said under point 5 of the NSDAP programme. [[Abg. Scheibner: What you have!]] A foreign right dates back to 1939, which also had to be taken over by Austria – the then "Eastmark". I can only tell you: This foreign right of the Nazis, as brutal as it was to certain groups, was more liberal in relation to minors, to children than what you are demanding today, what you want to claim for Austria. That's what it says: ==References== Foreigners do not need a special residence permit. – That was the program of the Nazis, ladies and gentlemen! They were even more liberal to children and to family descendants than what you demand. You call for repatriation, ladies and gentlemen. That is also a part of this reality that you have to face, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is harmonizing!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Harmless Nazi! That's incredible! You impoverished the Nazis!]] [[Violent calls to the liberals.]] I don't think you need to get upset, ladies and gentlemen. You know exactly what is meant and what tradition you are moving in. [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] Last time I told you very clearly what tradition you are in with your mutual compensation of unemployment and foreigners. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Communists and Nazis have always felt a lot for each other!]] In what spiritual tradition are you moving in? – These were not least the Nazis who at the time blamed the Jews as the cause, as the "wrong evil" for the unemployment problem. – They do the same with foreigners today. They are moving in a spiritual tradition, which is fatal and which has rightly been betrayed and rehearsed by the European Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You call yourself liberal?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a Nazi unharmed!]] [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] – Ladies and gentlemen! I think you know exactly where you're going. Back to foreign law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Those who live here also need income to be able to exist. There are about 700 000 to 750 000 foreigners, of whom 270 000 are currently employed. The official employment rate among foreigners is therefore much lower than among the Austrians – much lower! The reason for this is, in addition to the Residence Act, a foreign employment law, which is a trick, a whip for foreigners, and the reason that they actually have to settle at all costs on the labour market. For if you are not covered by the Foreign Employment Act or by the Residence Act, if you do not comply with the provisions of the Residence and Foreign Employment Act, then for many here in this country and for many who have lived in that country for decades, only the illegality remains. This is a result of the policy of the Free Party, ladies and gentlemen. But that is also the responsibility of the government parties. You have still not managed, ladies and gentlemen, in particular to address the few representatives of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation present here, to grant foreign workers the same rights to the same political rights at work as the national level. They have still not managed to abolish the multi-classity of foreigners in the Foreign Employment Act. They have still not managed to transform the Residence Act into a comprehensive integration law and to abolish the Foreign Employment Act, this wretched scourge for many thousands of foreign workers. They have still not managed to bring in a step of humanity here. And this is the cause of the fact that today we are dealing with so many cases that – everyone for themselves – are cruel enough. I would like to read to you some details that are also the result of your government policy, Mr Bundeskanzler. – Decisions issued by the Office of the Government of Vienna. For example, it is about a man here since 1981 who has been working here since 1983 and who has children aged 17, eight and six. The extension of the residence permit for the whole family, although the man has been there since 1981, was rejected on the grounds that the accommodation of this family with 33 square meters, consisting of rooms and kitchen is far too small. – Case one. Federal Chancellor! We know this enough to reject such cases. Case two, a similar case: The man's been working here for a long time. The extension was therefore rejected because only one room kitchen apartment was available. Case three is actually the most serious, and it is just one of many cases from a long series. It was rejected a family merger because the man with 19,075 s net earnings did not have enough money to feed his family. Ladies and gentlemen! There are some inside here who, hopefully, still know from their everyday lives what 19 075 S means for many Austrians. Some would be happy if they deserved so much. A million Austrians certainly have less than 19 000 S of net income. But a foreigner who has been living here in Austria for a long time is rejected the family merger because he deserves "only" 19 000 S net, i.e. approximately 25 000 or 26 000 S gross. The party could only prove a monthly income of 19,075 s net of the husband, and that was too little for the woman and for four children. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the year?]] Some would be happy if they were to earn 19 000 s net. Many Austrians would be satisfied with this situation. And that is a result of this policy of residence law and foreign employment law, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, are so proud to have caused it, so proud to drive this government ahead of you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This shows the double density of politics!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is much in the existing laws of residence, foreigners and foreigners' employment, which can no longer be described as human, but only as cynical. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because the execution doesn't work!]] The so-called integration package presented and presented by the Minister of the Interior with Mr. Khol, this famous integration package, which in some respects - I admit - would have taken us a little step forward, is full of footfalls and fishing, Mr. Khol! For example, if you say to the "Kurier": Although we have more in the country, we must at least do more about the foreigners who are unemployed, and we will have to step up the pressure on the foreign unemployed, that is also a sign of an inhumane policy, Mr Khol. . A clear sign of an inhuman policy, because the result of increasing visibility to foreign workers is that people are not allowed to stay. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: All of them!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't close your eyes! There are foreigners who systematically exploit our system!]] You, Mr Khol, know what happens when a unemployed foreigner, who was here for ten or 20 years, receives emergency aid after unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You live in a dream world!]] If he has a license, he can obtain emergency aid for a year – and then he gets nothing more. He does not receive any social assistance because most of the federal states have already excluded foreigners from social assistance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why should he get emergency aid for a year?]] And the essential thing is: He won't be allowed to stay. That is the result of this policy in the Residence Act, in the foreign legislation that you have caused, Mr. Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: For a year he can tachinate!]] They have caused them to bear the responsibility to have foreigners in this country fear – foreigners who have lived in that country for years and decades because they must be afraid to be expelled from that country. - You shake your head. I have read the cases to you, Mr Khol. These were three very clear cases of people who have long worked here in Austria. You can't be proud of this policy! You have no reason to do so. If, for example, the Minister of the Interior thinks it is a special act of humanity when asylum seekers are already being rejected at borders in the future, I must say: I imagine something else among humanity towards asylum seekers. I imagine how to deal with asylum seekers differently. The number of asylum applications has fallen rapidly in recent years. The number of approved asylum applications detto, you know,...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4169	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4184	... ladies and gentlemen know about the government parties. I think it would be time to take advantage of this debate, which has already been forced on us by the liberals, who cannot be a step forward, from our side to a step towards a more human integration policy, a policy that deserves the words "human" and "decent".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4215	Mr Stadler has referred to an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4239	As an example of his incorrect investigations, the NS-harmless oillinger has misclaimed that I am a member of the German Burschenschaft. That's wrong. My noble connection is neither a member of the German Burschenschaft nor a member of another association, nor am I a member of the German Burschenschaft.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4268	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4290	Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this last correction has dealt with one of the least of the issues that have been raised to us in the speeches of recent times, especially of you, Mr Oellinger. Ladies and gentlemen! In his contribution, Member Novotny said that the debate on foreigners and foreigners should not be emotionalised, that it should be discussed quietly and objectively, and that is why he strongly criticised Mrs Partik-Pablé. Who today has heard the statements of the united coalition parties of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Liberals, can only walk over the back of the cold showers. Mr Cap! There the Chancellor says once tax-free, all the things that we have brought here today are nationalistic and chauvinistic, without saying that, after his division, the Chamber of Labour should be, for example, a nationalist and chauvinist organization, the ÖGB should be a nationalist and chauvinist organization, and the mayor Häupl should be a nationalist and chauvinist politician, because all these institutions and politicians have long called for the things we have called for here today, in some debates and in newspaper reports. The question is: Why, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – Because it always fits before elections that one suddenly shows hardness, "nationalist, chauvinist hardness". But then, when the elections are over, when you've calmed the base that's affected by the problems every day, then they're multicultural again, then they're open again, then the true inside comes out again, ladies and gentlemen! But it has continued today. Mr Kier has tax-free all those who say that the Bosnian refugees we have taken up, of course, when they were threatened with body and life, but after this danger has been removed, they should return to their home country with an integration aid and there raise up their country, "ethnic cleansing". Ladies and gentlemen! This is an incredible scandal to match this demand with the criminal acts, with the crimes committed by the Serbs against the democracy movement and the people of Croatia, Slovenia and Bosnia. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He protects the Serbs!]] This is the level that is being introduced here in Parliament in this supposedly objective debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm sure Mr Oillinger shot down the bird! Mr Oellinger! Straight They philosophise about the German Burschenschaft. Mr President, I should like to thank If I look at your organizations, your roots, and the organizations calling on them to choose the Greens, such as the Revolutionsbrauhof, then I would be quite calm in your place. But you're going here and impoverished in an immense way – you can't say that at all – National Socialism by saying that they have pursued a liberal immigration policy and foreign policy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] They said – that was the scandal: The policy of the National Socialists was more liberal among the children than what the liberals demand. And finally, it was what is in force today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An excuse would be due!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is it, if not an insolence of National Socialism? You sit there and laugh because you have a green fool freedom. With each other, this would have drawn an advertisement according to the Prohibition Act. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have freedom of fools, and you will still be commended by the representatives of the other parties. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ecocommunism!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. Then it's about fear. But what is it really? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Right!]] Right, it's being frightened in foreign policy. But where are frights operated, ladies and gentlemen? For example, before the last National Council election, an Egyptian who has Austrian citizenship comes to me and says: I'd like to ask myself, say, is that true what I've heard? – I have heard this Egyptian say that if Dr. Haider comes to power, all Austrians will be deprived of citizenship, and they will be turned away from the country. And now he wants to know if that's true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] Mr Colleppelmüller! I ask him: How did you get this nonsense? – He said that he was in an Egyptian association and that he had come to be a socialist district secretary and had held a referendum and warned against giving Dr. Haider and FPÖ his voice, for when he came to power, all indigenous foreigners would be deprived of citizenship and they would be turned away from the country. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In Arabic!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's scary, that's panic before elections, that's inconvenient politics! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol has also come and has spoken here of decent and indecent Austrians. [[Abg. Steibl: You're talking about it!]] Of what? You probably didn't listen to your own clubman. You have to be careful, or you'll be reset by three rows. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] You always listen attentively to the clubman in your party. [[Abg. Steibl: What do you write into your urgents! That's my problem! That's not your problem! Focus on your own thing!]] Listen to me. Her clubman Khol said that he is making politics for the decent Austrians who are for immigration, who understand how to deal with the people. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Then are those indecent, including your voters, also your district president of the 19th century. ==References====External links== Districts that say that there can no longer be any progress here, for example in Vienna, that it can no longer be a matter of fear, of going to the streets at night, that it can no longer be possible to give children to Catholic private schools if they are to be trained properly? Mr Khol! Is it then all bad people who do not want to pursue and carry on politics that you seem to have agreed with Mr Innenminister? – Always these comparisons. The one who plays with everything you agree with the Socialists, the Greens and the Liberals. All others are indecent, even if they come from their own party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The facts are quite clear: It is not about discriminating anyone here or running inhumane policies. It is a question of criticizing the fact that, over the last ten years, an unbridled immigration policy has been implemented in Austria and, above all, in Vienna, which is simply no longer viable for this city and for that country. Mr Cap! Your own city councillor Swoboda from Vienna has had a study prepared, the study "Vienna 2010". It was said that a city of the size of Vienna could cope with the infrastructure of 6 000 immigrants per year if one assumed the project of integration. Thus, 6 000 immigrants per year would be feasible. This would mean that we had raped some 42 000 immigrants in this city by 1989 to 1995. That was the period of the greatest migration. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, not 42 000 immigrants have come to Vienna, but 176 000! 176 000 – without illegals of course – have immigrated into this city. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Without illegals!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your city councillor, Swoboda, has commissioned studies that clearly show that we have not been able to integrate in the past because the move has been too fast and too big. And then a Minister of the Interior, with his package of integration on the path of family integration, wants to allow once again 100 000 to 150 000 immigrants in the coming years, especially in those areas where we already have these problems. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it's all about. And you will not prevent us from yelling at the alarm when you make such proposals that endanger the climate in our city, which is not even mentioned in approaches to integration. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The Minister of the Interior has admitted it openly in the Committee. I asked him: Minister of the Interior! Where will the children go to school? where we know that in the problem areas we have a share of 70, 80, even 90 percent. Where will people live? How is all this going to work? The answer of the Minister of the Interior was: I don't care. I'm not Minister of Education, I'm not Minister of Construction, I'm only Minister of the Interior. I have to take care of the immigration law, but not the conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows very clearly how this is being done. This is not about integration, it is about clear ideology. It contrasts the idea of multicultural society with the idea of integration and the right to home for domestics. And if we face this, ladies and gentlemen, then we will You will always find us on the side of those who are for integration, but against the multicultural society that can only lead away. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap! They shook the head and made "brrr." You are also one of those who – I have heard of the hammock, that’s all very nice – go such events: beautiful music, good food, wonderful! Mr Cap! But of you, we've heard other sounds as well. Before elections, when it comes to prefering the base to do what is required anyway, it sounds different. You probably know this brochure from Hernals: "Information from the Gravezel, National Council election 1994: It's about a lot, it's about Hernals." [[Abg. May. Stadler: Hereafter the Hernals!]] It's written: "Dr. Josef Cap – since 1983 as a representative for you in the National Council – sees the focus of his political work in preventing another move from foreigners to Hernals." [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Chauvinism and nationalism!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Apparently also a chauvinist, Mr. Federal Chancellor! – I quote: "Sure Hernals is one of the most affected districts in Vienna with regard to the problems of foreigners – this is to change with Dr. Josef Cap." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who said that?]] Mr Cap! I fully agree with your analysis of the problem. I fully agree with you, because I too am a member of a problem district, namely the 15. Districts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A box of cream for breakfast for the cap!]] We may have even greater problems because we have a share of legal foreigners living here of almost 40 percent. We have areas in which the socialist district councillor speaks of "slumping". Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with you in your analysis, but I do not understand why, if you take this analysis before national elections, a Minister of the Interior may, after the elections, ask you to support these problem areas – because family integration is clearly expected in those areas where there is already a large proportion of foreigners – to come again 100 000 to 150 000 immigrants. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really do not understand this, Mr Cap. But this too, I think, is a clear calculation. But you have to see how far this is going and what problems it raises. They're all single-chicksales. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot say that all this is invented that the brains of the people are that all these are crazy, all radicals. That's a lot of singles. Ladies and gentlemen! An example from my district, which has happened in the last 30 years: Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus had a population of 100 000 30 years ago; the proportion of foreigners was 1 percent. Today, 30 years later, we only have more than 60,000 inhabitants; foreigners share 40 percent. Mr Cap, what has happened over the past 30 years in this good region with this good infrastructure, in this nearby area? What happened, ladies and gentlemen? You should keep that in mind once. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Without illegals? How many more illegals are there?]] Of course, the illegals are not involved. Mr Cap! If we say now that we want to solve the problems, let us stick to what Mr Haider said at a press conference today. He proposed: Let's all sit at a table and discuss the problems you have correctly analyzed before the National Council election! Let us look at the fact that, as far as possible, we are able to achieve integration, but we are not creating an increase in problems and an increase in frustration by new immigration. Let us try to help all those who want to find a future in their own home country, including refugees, namely the reintegration aid we propose. That would be a sensible thing. For if we are already talking about economic problems, as Mr Kier has mentioned, it is clear that we cannot solve foreign economic problems by immigration to the country, but we can only provide assistance to the countries concerned, Mr Cap. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is exactly where our proposals and our motion for a resolution are going: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Cap! Ladies and gentlemen! If it really...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4627	Deputies! The speaking time has already expired! I would like to ask you here once again to read motions for resolutions in such a timely manner that they can be accommodated within the scheduled speaking time. The 15 minutes of your speaking time have expired – you are no longer speaking! [[Abg. Scheibner: If you are dealing with these problems, you agree to this request!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Now he's still talking, although he's not talking anymore!]] The next speaker is Dr. Cap. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4676	Mr President. High house! I hope the "Milchmädchen" of the FPÖ does not leave the room, because it could take place here quietly in the first row. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about the campaign prospectus?]] I am therefore saying "Milchmädchen" because the FPÖ Princehorn has not been fully quoted today. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What about the foreigners in 1994?]] ==References== June 1996 said we need foreigners like a bite of bread, and then he said: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Talk about yourself and not about the Princehorn!]] "To believe to be able to combat high unemployment by reducing foreigners is the dumbest milkmaid bill I've ever heard." [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How was the 1994 election brochure?]] He probably means Jörg Haider with the stupidest milkmaid bill, and he's standing at the door now, because he's probably just trying to get fresh milk again, so you can get a bit in swing in the vitamin. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I want to know what happened to the 1994 election promise!]] But this also shows why there is a proportion of foreigners. But not how you want to tell us, because there is a conspiracy of the evil political caste, but foreigners there are... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Hereafter the Hernals!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Chauvinist!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] I'm telling you, it's not a coincidence that you all have a mouth here, but two ears. You should think about listening. It is not a coincidence of creation: Two ears you have so you can listen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We not only listen, we also read your election brochures!]] Again: There is no conspiracy of politics and any malicious spirits, but there is a foreigner because there is a need and there is still today and because the economy wants these foreigners. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you read for yourself what you write?]] However, the FPÖ did not do that, because on 12 February, it was not the case. Then June the good FPÖ prince horn had to make a kneefall, swear as in the worst Stalinism and then have to say: No, I'm only for temporary foreign seasonal eggs. He probably swallowed down the "bits of bread" he couldn't remember at all, and that with the milkmaid bill, and that he called the clubman a milkmaid, he forgot that as well. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should read the election brochure!]] I don't know what criminal variations you have, fact is, he had to do on 12. The fact is that there are, in fact, foreigners for the above reasons. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You forgot your election promise!]] That's why I'm still wondering... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you know what an election promise is? You promised the Hernals: Hernals!]] You can come out here, we can do a double conference if you want. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] If you really want to play and suffer now that you're not standing here, then come here! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Come on. She's just here! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I want to remind you of your election promise!]] We won't somehow get on the same denominator. You may be louder, you probably have practiced and learned in the Bregenz Forest – but I have to continue now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us now go to the next point. Let's talk numbers, because they're the real facts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (a document in height) Yes! These are the numbers of the 17th century. Districts!]] Yes, there are certain numbers you quote here, and there are numbers you do not quote here. Foreign employment: minus 4.6 percent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: These are the numbers of Hernals!]] We're still coming to Hernals. The number of unemployed Foreigners have fallen from 1994 to 1995 from 25 445 to 24 893. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You must send your speeches to the Hernals!]] The number of foreigners illegally employed was 4 210 in 1994 – in addition to the letter – 6 186, 1995. What's that? – All in the choir: sink! - And that's how we can continue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look, the Federal Chancellor is already generating for you!]] How many have come to Austria? In 1991 it was 91 000 and then from year to year less: 86,000, 44,000, 20,000, 15,000. And that's why again in the choir: What's that? - Down! We can continue. For example, again with numbers, because you always have such fear-makers' perspectives. Criminal proceedings: 1994 – to be co-written because it is a slightly longer number – 504 568, 1995 486 433. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Does everyone have to say this again in the choir?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Federal Chancellor, that's like 50 years ago! There was a choir like that!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Thank you, for the bell, because now the bet comes back. What's that? - Down! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we might want to get in touch with the details. Gravity delicacy: Murder: minus 9.2 percent; Intake: minus 5 percent; Drugs: minus 14 percent; fatal body injury – I'm going to throw you today with numbers, that's the only thing you really understand – minus 14.3 percent. What's that? - Down! You should really remember that! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What about your level? - Down!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (a sheet of paper in height) Here I have the numbers!]] If you believe the club! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Cap, what about your level? - Down!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] Was the operation planned? – I don't think so, I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5073	Ladies and gentlemen! Please excuse me, I am not constantly ringing with the bell, because I have a pathological preference for the bell sound, but because I want to signal that you should reduce the calls to the extent that the speaker can make himself comprehensible at the mouth. [[Rejoicing]] The Rules of Procedure give you every opportunity to act here at the Pult. Please, Dr. Cap, you are speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5105	Mr President. You're really hard on me, 'cause I've been getting used to these atonal calls, but I can't change. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Talk about trafficking in human beings! It's increased by 250 percent!]] What's up? – That’s what’s going to be You are now pleased: In 1995 we had 12 653 residence bans, 7 292 withdrawals, 10 772 deportations, 3 701 reschedulings. If you could add, you would now insist that 14,473 people had to leave Austria. [[Abg. May. Trattner: And what is it now?]] – However, this has risen. If I look at all these numbers, I have to ask you: Why do we even meet here today? What are we doing? What's this special meeting? What's this urgent thing? [[Abg. May. Stadler: We discuss Hernals! You promised the Hernals, there are fewer foreigners!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The trafficking of human beings has increased!]] Get the "Milch Girl" in here! This should come here now, should listen once and then explain why it really did this today. It's absurd, it's a knee shot and in fact completely pointless what you're holding there! Except it doesn't matter to you what you're saying, but you want to bring some ideology back to your eyes. Sometimes I suspect that it really is, because just today, when we had the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we have had such a small controversy again. They are about the ethnic reorganisation of Europe. That's all yours, that's your programme of principle. You have to afford the luxury and read your basic programmes as well. You are concerned with the ethnic reorganisation of Europe. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Europe as Grand Hernals!]] They therefore find migration flows when they happen as you do not want to, not pleasant. They have a certain ethnic, volcanic idea – whatever that may be. There are a few more speakers from you who can tell this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Josef Cap's hernals is the new Europe!]] My question to you: On what basis do you really want to carry out this ethnic reorganisation? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Based on the caps of ideas about Hernals!]] I do not know what year, what time period in Europe is in store for you. What is it? Maybe it's the 4th. - Century? It's the 10th. - Century? What is it? Something has to be. That you live a biterl at this time proves one of the points you have raised today under the conditions for a "decent foreign policy" and in which, for example, you demand immediate and complete implementation of border protection by the immediate provision of the necessary personnel and material resources. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We only want to do what you promised the Hernals!]] Sage It's the same thing: Attention, the dogs are coming! Everything right on the border! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That's about your diction you approach the population. But now let's go back, 'cause a bit of history lesson isn't bad. I would be interested in the following: When the Germans came – what was that then? Was the land robbery, land takeover, liberation? Have some of you, such secret Germans who lived there in the area been waiting for it? Did you ask yourself: When are the Markomans finally coming? When are the quads coming? When are the vandals coming? When are the goths coming? [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: The Alemanns!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What was your plan? Tell us! Have you really been waiting for it? On what basis is this ethnic reorganisation to take place? Here are the Franks, there the Bajuwaren. In your case, the Alemanns, the Rato-Romans? – How is all of this to happen? Please don't let us get in the dark! Their foreign policy cannot be merely Party policy tactics and is directed against the government, against the Interior Minister, against the chancellor. There must be something behind that, otherwise you would not have produced your programme of principles with which you are constantly harassing us. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Federal Chancellor can no longer listen!]] But if that is the case, then I have to ask myself the question – and you have to answer this question; that you are against multi-culti, you have already said this a few times today: On what basis is this ethnic reorganisation to take place? That would really interest me. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Based on your election program!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Based on your election promises!]] You say 4. ==References====External links==* Official website It's accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Based on your election program!]] What do I want to say? – This area seems to have always been an area of transit, immigration, emigration. Look, I've looked at your case in the preparation for today at Zöllner's "Austrian Prehistory", and it's quite interesting what he writes about the beginnings of human settlements of the Old and Virgin Age in our area. Maybe we'd like to sit there. Perhaps there is the authentic Austrian that you are looking for all the time. "From the third, the last intermission time" – I quote – "the finds from the Gudenushöhle" "at Hartenstein in the Lower Austrian Kremstal" – we are getting closer and closer to the authentic Austrian and to the place where it is located; perhaps it has also returned to the Gudenushöhle and persists there in the Lower Austrian Kremstal – "and the Dragon Cave at Mixnitz" – where you have probably established the Alliance Office – "which makes us recognize the people of that time above all as hunters." [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] – So one parallel hunts the other. "The hunting of big animals – in the Alps there were many cave bears" – the "Milchmädchen" can tell more about this, because the Bear Valley probably had many cave bears – "and the collection of fruits form the basis of its existence. In the vicinity of rivers, he will also be a fisherman." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Is that not far from the subject, Mr President?]] "As tools and weapons served by slamming blades" – slamming, blades, dirt, burgers – "or slamping (faust keil)" – Ewald Stadler, slamming off, Faustkeil, your bet would now be asked, now I want to hear an intermediate call! Why doesn't he come? – "worked firestones and" – now your party venues come – "as dwellings natural loopholes, especially caves." [[Lively cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Dear Joseph, that you still read the tax collector shows your education!]] [[New cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Colleague Cap, the Feurstein is from the ÖVP!]] "Unquestionably owned" – this is now the surprising part of this text – "also the man of this time a trained language, the sign of a mindful mind" – that was somewhat surprising, but then goes on quite normal again – "also, signs of a cult of the dead are recognizable." – I understand this with the many political bodies that lie on the edge of the FPÖ. This cult is necessary. "Human scelet-rests have not yet been found. He certainly belonged" – that is to say, the authentic Austrian – "the Neandertal race." You should have stopped there at the time. No more coming in! There are only more loud Neandertals running around the area with a loose fur around the body: This is the authentic Austrian. That is not the case in your group, which you have known to have sent away. It would have been better if he had stayed daily and you had all gone, then as a representative of the FPÖ Group we would have had the authentic Austrian. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't know him! Do you want to protect him in Hernals?]] Therefore: There have always been international migrations – in a small, large style – and these international migrations, of course, leave their mark. If the "milch girl" was sitting here right now, I'd be easier. I could say to him: the clever Slavic look, in which one has to look after, this Celtic incalculability, which has probably degenerated, the love of the forest – the Markomans are known for the reforestation of the Teutoburg Forest –, the love of order as the heritage of the vandals, while the beating and beating again points to the Neandertal. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is embarrassing! Pepi, you've been better!]] And so we could put all these cultural elements together, and that would be the basis... [[Abg. May. Stadler: That you quote the tax collector! You're really weak today!]] I can further analyze. As I look around, I still think a lot of where the traces of international migration become visible. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler is responsible for the Alemannian and the Ratoro-Roman part. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I want to present this in this intensification in order to make visible what the ideological background must be for you to bother us all the time with your things. I want to show that it is not just a question of party-political discussions and not at all about the concern about the Hernals who, at 27.3 percent in fact, have the second highest share of foreigners in Vienna and who can rightly think about whether there should be a different distribution. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It is about what you promised the Hernals before the elections!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah now you finally come to the topic! Now it's gonna be interesting!]] But between Hernals and all of Austria – I am a proud Hernalser – is a biterl a difference from the order of scale and from the situation of the problem. In any case, I place great importance on that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The difference is that you can only run in Hernals!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're proud of Hernals, but the Hernals aren't proud of you!]] Because you have always gladly acclaimed your speakers today and have also been so happy about the country election in Burgenland, I now conclude – a biterl for further training – with a beautiful quote from Shakespeare: "Wild joy takes a wild end." [[Abg. May. Stadler: From Zöllner to Shakespeare – this is an increase!]] You should hang this up as a slogan in your FPÖ club, and that should be the further guideline of your future "wild pleasures". I can only wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5495	I also note that the motion for a resolution previously adopted by Mr Scheibner is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5538	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make two preliminary remarks. First preliminary remark: I have been following this debate very closely so far. We had the same debate about four weeks ago, also at a special meeting of the National Council, also in the form of an urgent request. No new arguments have actually been put forward. I say quite openly: I am looking forward to the next reform of the Rules of Procedure, which hopefully prevents us from having special meetings in Parliament every three or four weeks on the same subject, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Kostelka has said that is because of the political references!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to say very clearly the following, and please do not misunderstand me now: Such special meetings and constantly the same issues in urgent questions, of course, also lead us to hear such speeches as we have just heard from my previous speaker. Mr Cap, it was amusing, but I would have been more pleased if I had heard that in the Cabaret and not on parliamentary ground. I have to say that quite openly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, only six points. That's why in the short term – I repeat it again – because we dealt with the same issue four weeks ago. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to say this very clearly because that is my personal view: I think Austria is not an immigration country. I would like to expressly distance myself from a statement by the Minister of the Interior. That is my highest personal view. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is from Khol!]] No, it's not from Khol. We are a country that has always been marked by humanity. We have always received those who needed protection who had been persecuted. But we are not a country of immigration in the classical sense that we allow foreigners to enter indefinitely. – That was always the view of the clubman Dr. Khol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'll read to you about the khol!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why our clubman has negotiated leading draft laws that have provided very strict and clear access arrangements – precisely from this point of view! I am right to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very difficult to find the balance; I have mentioned it here: this "balancing between humanity and humanity on the one hand and economics". It's much easier to explain: Foreigners out! But we do not turn to these primitive solutions. I would also like to say this very clearly about the demarcation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I acknowledge that most of the foreigners we have with us today have not come from themselves, but that we have been for many years – for many years since the beginning of the 1970s! – have done everything, the Chamber of Commerce even through their own recruitment orders abroad, so that we can obtain foreign workers. For decades we have done this, ladies and gentlemen. We have to be so honest. And today we must not be surprised if these foreigners – this quote has fallen – as people of course also make demands, claims in the field of humanity, family integration and so on. We must not be surprised about that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's not about the ones we've been picking in the last decades!]] But, my colleague, I would like to admit to you: This austereness, where the limits of humanity and where the boundaries of economy are, is very difficult. This is a very difficult task. Therefore, we should keep the discussion objectively and soberly, should this be done, please, what is the task of policy, namely to fear and not to cause fear. This too should be said very clearly, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Peter.]] This topic is very delicate. Of course, it also worries me if I meet many citizens today who are afraid of alienation. And I tell you quite openly and honestly: I also do not want to give my children to schools where 80 or 90 percent are foreigners. [[Abg. Scheibner: They cannot afford to give them up elsewhere!]] This is serious, Mr President. [[Abg. Scheibner: Hundreds of thousands have to go!]] But this is no reason to make political change with it. We must discuss this objectively and seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And an overall presentation also shows, ladies and gentlemen, that today, with all the scarcity of jobs, with all the labour market problems, we still have a number of businesses that say honestly and demonstrably: Please, we don't get domestic workers for certain activities. And when we get foreigners there, this is a contribution to the value creation in Austria. You all know we have this problem. We have this problem – I have already formulated it – which is also central to the issue of the feasibility of employment. In the case of 250 000 to 300 000 unemployed, with almost 30 000 unemployed foreigners, please ask the question of availability! The farms do not call from jux and tolling to foreigners, they are much preferable to domestics. There are no language problems, there are no bureaucratic obstacles, there are no quotas and so on. But if the nationals are not present, if they are not willing to carry out certain work, I would prefer to leave this added value in the country and employ foreign workers here – with the consequence that we must also pay attention to the social and humanitarian component, Mr President. That's how we have to be consistent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And one thing, because in this fear propaganda, of course, always swings: Pay attention, the foreigners take away your jobs! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a previous speaker has already said it: It's not labour force! If the city of Vienna allows Philippine nurses to fly in because no one else is able to do this work, then it cannot be claimed that the textile worker in Groß-Siegharts is losing her job because we have foreigners in Austria. That's cockbucks! But always again and again this fear rail is driven: The foreigners take away your work! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because there is no part-time employment for nurses!]] However, I am very much in favour – and this is also the position of the economy and the Chamber of Commerce – of saying: We must ensure that the right of residence and the right of employment are consistent and harmonised. It is not a question of having a disparity between the right of residence on the one hand and the right of foreigners to work on the other. Here, too, I find myself in partnership with Mrs Hostasch, who is currently nagging in agreement. Here we must see that employment and residence rights are as congruent as possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. May. Peter.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would be really pleased if the next special meeting I expect before the summer – I think you have to be so realistic – would be dedicated to a different subject than foreign employment. We still have other serious problems in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5708	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler to speak. Please start the correction with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5732	Mr President. High house! In the context of a distance from the immigration philosophy of the Federal Minister, Mr. Stummvoll has made the claim that the Clubobmann of the ÖVP, Khol, would never have claimed that Austria was an immigration country for the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I quoted One!]] This is wrong. On the contrary, it is true that Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, was in the "Standard" of 8. The following quotation is mentioned twice in November 1995: "The F believes Austria is not an immigration country – the People's Party believes that we are an immigration country." Second quote: "Just because we believe Austria is an immigration country, we want orderly, human rights-compliant conditions: Immigration."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5781	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5802	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am sure that Mr Dr. Stummvoll has referred his statement that he wants his children not to go to a school with a share of 80 to 90 percent of foreigners to the ability of these young people to speak. And that may be the difference in the debate. This is about the ability to speak, because the father is concerned that the children remain in learning because of the lack of language ability of foreign children. If they were to speak really good German, it would be an enrichment for the children if they could go there to learn more than their schoolmates from the same village. Integration is a question of how to see it. Mrs Partik-Pablé said about integration that foreigners must adapt to our lifestyle, as we have lived for decades. – Is that really so static? Is it really the case that integration is only adapted? Is integration only subordinate? Is integration not just as self-determined, colorful and changing our culture? Ladies and gentlemen! This is perhaps the point why we have to argue here in the special session: because we have quite different approaches on a sensitive subject. I would be glad if we were not to hold an immigration debate, because there is no civilized country in the world, which is not a country of immigration. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I think so!]] It is a question of quantity, it is a question of simultaneousity, it is a question of integration ability, whereby I understand here under "integration" not subordination, but self-determination. What bothers me so much is that this sensitive issue is, of course, being discussed in the Austrian population there and there at beer tables, even in some newspapers with an understated racism, with a pangermanic superiority, with an ideological boredom and with an overcrowding philosophy. I do not propose to the ladies and gentlemen of the liberal club that they do so, but at the same time I would like to remind them that they do not oppose it. For I know that at such assemblies there and there is some mad man standing up and speaking an unheard-of nonsense. And I ask you, as a political representative of this democratic Republic of Austria, to: Whenever such insane ones get up at any congregation, then object You like them, then fight against these opinions and do not support them subserviently. – This is what really distinguishes us. Facts on this subject are quickly listed. Wealth attracts, ladies and gentlemen. We can no longer hide our wealth in a media society. He's reached. It is an osmotic pressure from poverty to wealth. So we will have to do everything we can in development policy. It has not only been done by calling for an East Aid Fund, but it is really important to promote development policy. On the one hand, it cannot be opposed that development aid in Austria should amount to 1 per cent or 2 per cent of gross domestic product, and on the other hand also combat immigration. It is the sense of development policy to reduce this osmotic pressure. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The second point is unfortunate: The rich countries die. We have a reproduction rate – it almost greys me when I express it that way – which is below two. The woman with childbirth has only more than 1.4 children. This is a free choice of the family in Austria. Therefore, we will have to have immigration if we only want to keep the population pyramid close. From the beautiful proud pine tree has now become a no less proud but unfinancing linde. The third point – and this is most important to me – is: Lockdown means standstill. It means impoverishment, culturally and economically. This Austria lives on the fact that it has not been shot off. I am very grateful that in 1918 my grandfather, who was born in Sarajevo, was allowed to settle as an officer in Austria. I might not be in that country. Maybe I am a little enrichment; my grandfather was definitely it. The fourth point – it has already been said very stupidly – is: Taking unemployment and free places into account is simply nonsense. It's just stupidity. Recognising unemployment and free places is stupidity and stupidity. And if you do, you have to be told by populism. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP and on the Greens.]] In between, the field of tension is the qualification of the place of residence and the place of work, of benefits. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, your task is not only to adapt the rules on feasibility, but also to modernise them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] We have 23 570 foreign unemployed in Austria at the end of May. We have – and there God is thanks to the unemployed foreigners also because we cover all the professionals in the professions – 6 193 unemployed construction workers, 31 805 unemployed people in tourism professions, 2 038 unemployed house workers, 8 934 unemployed cleaning persons, a large number of unemployed people. Nevertheless, some businesses are unable to find employees on the labour market due to lack of clarity, because of lack of enforcement of the feasibility. And therefore a clear word to the seasonal kidneys: Dr. Stumbling! The Chamber of Commerce is dealing very strongly with this question. I believe that in today's employment situation, we no longer need seasonal eggs if we are to regulate the feasibility reasonably. Just a status of the seasonal kidney I don't let myself take, ladies and gentlemen: For the young Australian student, for the Canadian student, for the craftsman from Norway, for the Swiss young man who wants to get to know our culture, our country, our language, who does not want to be integrated into our social system, who wants to work with us for a certain period of time, three or six months, and get to know our country, stay in Austria. This is, however, a very different form of seasonal kidney than the one that is meant for employment in sectors where we do not otherwise receive employees. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and the ÖVP.]] The sixth point: One thing is clear, and everyone who debates it responsibly knows: The immigration policy has borders, and precisely because it has borders, I would like to have an immigration debate today and not a foreign debate. The Convention on Human Rights is not relativable. She is thank God so clearly decided, and we signed her as an Austrian. And asylum law and humanity are also undisputable – even if the results are difficult, even if there are burdens. But just to say, we're for the Austrians, and the foreigners don't care, we can't, that's too narrow-minded. People who live in our country, people who are in need, are our problem, regardless of what citizenship they eventually have. Immigration must always be greater than zero. We need gradual immigration into an open world economy, in the establishment of businesses, in qualifications, in training, in the cultural enrichment of our country. It must, however, be limited in its ability to integrate, whereby integration does not mean subordination, but integration, partnership co-existence. Ladies and gentlemen! The solution is certainly difficult and sensitive. Some approaches to this: The focus, I think, here we all agree, must be on the integration of the people who are in our country. It is unbearable for people who have long had the right to become Austrians, because of their long stay in Austria, because of their impatience, because of their duration of employment, which only this request has never made, because they have said that I want to go back to Bosnia again in my pension, for example, because they make some formal mistakes. The family estate, ladies and gentlemen, is indispensable. You can't keep working animals in Austria. After a certain period of permission to work, after a certain period of stay, it must be human rights that women and children, i.e. the next family, should be able to imitate and live together. An open immigration policy must define our policies as well as our brains. We must be open, although knowing that the number is limited and that the qualifications are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! More fingertips, more humanity in words and thoughts on this most sensitive political subject would be necessary. As an election campaign theme it is really not suitable!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5873	The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stoisits. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5894	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! It was the current colleague Dr. Löschnak, then Federal Minister of the Interior, who was once called "best man in the government" by FPÖ. If one reads this urgent parliamentary request from the liberals, one can get the impression that today it is no longer a good man in the government, but that the government is the best man of the liberals, namely the entire government. For as much satisfaction as has been done in the field of foreigners' legislation in Austria in recent years, as this urgent request shows, amazes me myself, who has always acted as a keen critic of the course of Dr. Lösnak, friends and friends. That is why I am a little concerned – in order to express it very harmlessly – especially with Mr Cap's speech, which gave here a – in the last discussion I have already said this – low-mair-vindobona-sculpture-ready idea. But this has nothing to do with the seriousness of the problem when it comes to the upcoming revisions of the alien laws in Austria. And that's right, Dr. stupidly, if he criticizes it. This is far too serious for me to organise a competition in cabaretist perfection here from time to time, from special meeting to special meeting or from urgent request to urgent request. The Josef Cap should read through the words here – perhaps for his next entry – when the liberals write – in relation to the popular desire "Austria first" in their eyes: "In response, under the leadership of the then Minister of the Interior, Löschnak, the Federal Government was led to finally act in the interest of the Austrians. A foreign right was drawn up which provided for a limitation of immigration", and so on and so on. – If I were Josef Cap, it would be extremely unpleasant for me in this situation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that it is not unpleasant to Joseph Cap and probably until the 13th century. I should like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if I may, if I may say so, that you will not be wrong. I would like to come from the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) of Wednesday, 12. ==References====External links==* Official website The columnist, who has been writing in the "Kronen-Zeitung" for decades, in his column entitled "Everybody gets what he likes" – the Austrians are talking about this split tongue with which the SPÖ speaks – brings quotations from two articles that have already been mentioned today: from an interview with Minister of the Interior Dr. Einm in the "Standard" and from the interview of the mayor Dr. Häupl in the newspaper "Die Presse", in which he speaks of the "adult" foreign policy. However, much more worrying than a special meeting on a day when, as I admittedly did, one already had other plans and obligations as a Member of Parliament, much more unpleasant than special meetings and accusations and polemics and populism of the liberals is what the Social Democrats are doing in this initial election campaign, namely speaking with split tongues and this – as the columnist Staberl says – "Customer Service". The one – Mr. Mayor Häupl – for the mass of voters, the other – Federal Minister Dr. One – for intellectual, left intellectual, open, "liberal" in the party sense – and green voters. Everyone gets what they need before the elections. The Federal Minister, who is one of the few Members with a direct mandate that he has not now exercised, but has kindly left a lady, the colleague Karlsson, satisfied a client who was with us – and many of you were there too – at the Lichtermeer on 23 February. January 1993 demonstrated for a more human cohabitation in Austria. Some are still present at "SOS-Mitmansch" and continue this thought. The Federal Minister thus satisfied these constituencies for the 13th. October or – as I would say – he tries to catch up with them. On the other hand, the mayor boldly says that the beginning of the solution was the occasionally flattered alien laws of Franz Löschnak and that they were actually perfectly right laws, because they actually limited the movement. There's almost a zero balance. He speaks the truth – there is this zero balance of immigration in Vienna. This is something that can be of different opinion in the political dispute, just as I think it is just a semantic question whether Austria is an immigration country or not. Today, the Federal Chancellor has given this opinion not only to the FPÖ, but also to this constituency, against better knowledge – I have always understood it so far – but also to this constituency. We don't need to discuss around: Austria is an immigration country. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrnitzky.]] Perhaps I have misunderstanded you, and you are opposed to the term "classical immigration country"; this term can only be understood in the sense of countries such as Canada or the USA, which also historically have a different tradition than immigration. But immigration or immigration remains a country of immigration. This does not prove a word play, but it shows a cross section by the Austrian population that we are and hopefully will remain – also for selfish reasons. I'm thinking of a demographic pyramid. I admit that it is not an emotional industry or a constant commitment to human rights and the right to family integration, but rather a purely pragmatic thought: What about the work to be done so that this pyramid doesn't really stand on the head? In this regard, I think quite selfish as an Austrian. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Staberl, Cap, Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, decent foreign policy versus indecent foreign policy – all of which I believe are the consequences of thinking that some – the liberals do not, the social democrats – are referring to the idea of making human rights dependent on the degree of foreignness. There is nothing wrong with the political approach to making human rights dependent on the degree of alienity! Today, the right to live together as a family was often discussed. It's a human right. There is no need to look more closely at what the Freedom Party holds of Human Rights. It is only a few months ago that Klubobmann Dr. Haider spoke of the fact that the European Convention on Human Rights could be abolished that it is not necessary. What should it be part of Austrian constitutional law? It is not a question of human rights to talk to politicians and citizens of this country who have such ideas. I have long mutilated myself to send out Mr. Dr. Haider. He wants exactly the opposite. I mean, it's necessary to keep that other part of the auditorium here, but also the public from these thoughts. The liberals will never leave this track, because – on this point Karl Ollinger has already and partly also pointed out today, with all puzzlingness, Mr Cap – as far as the ideology of the liberals is concerned, there is no other way at all. Ladies and gentlemen! It does not concern me with these election tactics of Dr. Haider, it is his right to demand a special meeting. This is a right that he is legally entitled to, it is enshrined in the Rules of Procedure – to him and 36 or 37 other members of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: 40!]] If anyone claims a right to him, then I do not think it opportune to talk of excessive exploitation or abuse, but it is the use of a right, as it is the right of a Turkish man to live with his Turkish wife, and as it is the right of Turkish children to live with their Turkish parents, wherever in the world, to be raised by them and not by anyone else. Dr. Haider! Same right for everyone! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've been dedicated to Dr. Haider for too long, it's actually about this side of the house. [[The speaker points towards the SPÖ.]] Not Dr. Haider bothers me in his argument that I am disturbed – some examples have been quoted by Karl Oillinger today – which are the result of legislation that has not been decided by the votes of the liberals. I also have such a notice here, which I have already held several times in my hands in the form of a textual version. Their consent was – it is about family integration – which has allowed an Austrian official of MA 62, Vienna, to write, quite rightly – I do not approve, but it is right – in accordance with the law: "Since, according to the experience of daily life among the people coming from the same culture as the applicant party, it is about Turks and Turks, "even after several years of domestic stay, a particularly the areas of language, communication with the inmate population and adaptation to Central European customs, customs and lifestyles can hardly take place, a preferred grant of approval to the applicant party, whose application does not allow for the integration of such circumstances, would only make it difficult for complex integration efforts for the foreign citizens living here." A Turk who wants to live legally with his Turkish wife in Austria for several years – of course legal, for otherwise he would not have to make the effort of making an application – they have no children at all, so it is a smallest possible family, only man and woman, not even Mama and Dad, must listen to or write by an Austrian official under existing Austrian laws that he and his wife are unable to guarantee Central European customs, customs and way of life. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as decisions of this kind have no chance of being remedied, because they are legitimate interpretation of existing laws, as long as there is a need for action, and as long as we Greens, we human rights-moved people in this country will not allow us to be welcomed by the two tongues with which the SPÖ speaks: on the one hand, the liberal, advanced Dr. One, on the other hand, the sniper-makers from the ÖGB, who destroy all the integration efforts of Dr. Khol and Dr. One with a press release. What does the ÖGB actually believe? – I don’t need to ask this rhetorical question at all. The ÖGB knows very well that this minimal variant of an improvement that was intended by Khol and One has only a chance to realize in the summer – probably hardly after the 13th century. In October, where the prospects for the labour market for foreigners and foreigners are not likely to be better. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] Split tongues are only available in Indian fairy tales – hopefully this also applies to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5983	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6004	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I do not intend to go into detail with the comments of my previous speakers. My colleague, Mr Kier, who has made clearly anti-Austrian statements, and also Mr Oellinger, who is not too stupid at all, when it is only against the liberals, so that he even glorifies National Socialism, has already very well replicated my colleague Scheibner. It's a little different with my colleague Cap. He has tried here to get away with a really stupid idea of the remarks of Herbert Scheibner regarding his statements in various elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He has brought examples and has always spoken of "falling". It is just an example to prove to him the opposite, namely the development of the foreign suspects: 1988: 10.6 percent of total crime, including crimes 14.3 percent. In contrast, 1994: 20.8 and 30.3 percent. There I can only say: increased. – There were many such examples! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] In one my previous speaker Cap agreed with the recipient of this urgent request, the Federal Chancellor, but: It's all right in Austria. It's all good for us Austrians are going to be wonderful, even if the impoverishment of families is no longer a marginal problem, even if one company goes into bankruptcy every day – we're fine, so it's logical that we Austrians can handle a load package of this magnitude. We are also so good that EU accession, as it happened, was simply right without If and But. – These are things that the Federal Chancellor wants to make us the head of this government every day. In this context, even if it is difficult for me, I must congratulate him. Federal Chancellor! You have a really good success in the ten years of your government: They have greatly influenced the power of opinion formation in Austria through the media. If a journalist, Michael Maier, says that you're a little bit the drawing father of virtue terror, he'll know what he's talking about. They have exploited the power of incitement of legal radicalism, the power of incitement of xenophobicity – so much is fixed for me. But you have also exploited this power over the media to present your own person as well as possible, to present your policy successfully, to rejoice and to be conjured – you have won only one choice over the entire ten years! But: This choice – the past National Council election – has just shown the success of this exercise of your power over the media. It has shown that you have succeeded in calming down the Austrian population, and that this influence has taken place in the minds of the Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – No, that is not my attitude, Mr Parnigoni, but that is the tenor of opinions of journalists. I do not know if you have read the comments of an Anneliese Rohr or Michael Maier on the ten-year anniversary of Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But they have always fearlessly avoided being the bearer of bad news – that is now the issue of foreign policy. They have silenced and concealed the ever-increasing problems of the Austrians and the need for action in politics. If you like today Your party colleague, Mayor Häupl, accuses of improper foreign policy, then he either does so only because elections are coming, or he is really different from you, Federal Chancellor. If your party colleague Hatzl does the same and literally says that European human rights to family life cannot apply in Vienna – I remember his various statements regarding the foreign problem – then I can only say: Either vote Your ideas of foreign policy with those of your party partners largely do not agree, or it is used here again for popular damnation, because the integration package that has been presented to us has actually punished what you or your party colleagues have told us so far. If today, in the media, the report that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has a stomachache before an upcoming visit to Turkey because of the social agreement that has been terminated, I must ask you: Were you really honest today in answering our urgent question? That is where you have simply put it all on the issue of Turkey, which has been the result of the Association Agreement. You said: Once again, I note that a right of immigration to Austria must not be derived from any provision for workers or their family members. And that is what I now have to face again with the statements or the threat letter – so we can almost call it – of the Turkish ambassador, who claims exactly the opposite, Federal Chancellor. I can only tell you: They would have done well to take into account the requests made by the liberals years ago when it came to the termination of these social agreements. You didn't do that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I really can save myself from defending the free movement of foreigners, because those who are right do not need to defend themselves! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] The fact that we liberals have been right in recent years with our foreign policy proves to be true day by day. And it doesn't matter to me, Chancellor, if you accuse us of having no backbone on our liberals, we are nationalists and chauvinists. – I just feel this as a retreat fight from you, because one thing is clear: You have pursued a policy of non-negotiation in recent years, especially in the field of foreign policy, and if you continue to pursue this dishonest policy, that will be the guarantee of further success for us free will. In the interest of us Austrians, however, I must ask you for one thing: Leave your course of cover-up and foggy tactics! Do not try again and again to avoid the fears of the people who are there who do not stir up our liberals, who are simply there, because they simply result from daily living together with the foreigners! Don't always make an emergency program! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, in the field of foreign policy, make a life programme for us Austrians, who, of course, also includes foreign residents. I can only tell you one thing: I really believe – and this is my personal impression – that foreign policy, which is run by the government in Austria from above, is not in line with the sentiments of your own base. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. One takes place at the government bank.]] Where is there really room in Austria for so many additional foreigners who want to bring you in? – You have confirmed to us today that you are on this integration package. We demand from you that you take this package back without If and But! We also call for the removal of criminals. We demand that there be no more premature citizenship. We want more stringent measures to be taken to combat blaze. We don't want this family estate, as you propagate it. On the other hand, we want to see the possibility of repatriation of foreigners living in Austria in their home country. What's really bad about it if we want to support it when we have to say to guests in our house in Austria sometime: "Our hospitality is over because we can no longer afford it!"? It would, of course, also be illegal to take up and postpone. For this we stand in every case and also in order to check the refugee characteristics. Federal Chancellor! I believe in the right and wrong of one: Nor must we necessarily defend injustice, for the time will prove who was right and who was wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6103	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6124	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mrs Haller. She said: What if we send our guests back so to speak? – She obviously confused this with an invitation to coffee. If I invite someone to coffee and maybe he's drinking a cup too much, it's my thing if I send him away or if I don't give him any more. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] One thing you already forget, Mrs. Haller: People who have come to Austria to work with us have paid from the first day to pay their taxes and also have a claim that if they get into an emergency, they will also receive our support due to these benefits. Today's issue is: "advanced foreign policy". – How do you define propriety? [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask Mayor Häupl!]] I didn't want my definition, but I took out the Brockhaus and looked at it today... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It is sad that you have to look at the Brockhaus, which means "decent"! I don't need to look for decent. Don't you really know for yourself what's "decent"? Don't you know? That's sad!]] [[Further calls and ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I found the following: "Opportunity: The way of life expected by a society or individual classes of society as a measure of the interpersonal behaviour of its members and groups, the virtue of simple morality, which emerges from human impulses regardless of worldly reasons. It shows itself, for example, in renunciation of benefits to others or in use for fellow human beings." – I just wanted to know what was inside, whether I was interpreting correctly. [[New calls to the liberals.]] How I interpret decentness, that's, please, my thing. I'm not leaving the floor of order. I wanted to face this with you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Take it easy, Mr. Haigermoser! I would like to point this out to you, because that is exactly what you are fighting. They have obviously never heard of presumptuousness. But it's still going on. There are different interpretations, ladies and gentlemen, for example in Meyer's universal lexicon. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have a few more lexikas? Maybe some tips from Donald Duck?]] [[Further lively calls and ironic cheerfulness.]] [[Ironic condolences with the liberals.]] But everything goes on to the same thing: "Opportunity: A behaviour of co-humanity that is proven in the overcome of egoism and in the control of aggressions in encountering other people in situations of everyday life. It naturally realizes what is necessary and appropriate in the specific situation in order to bring people next to themselves" – and you should listen carefully, for you have never known that – "with no exception to having their own positive benefits come to his right." Most interesting! I am convinced that Vienna's mayor Häupl interprets this as well. In your movement, however, I have some doubts when I think about the "ordinary employment policy" or when I think of dealing with your clubman even with domestic workers. I would just like to remind you of the Förster Günther Stöckl and the affair in 1987. – Is that decent?, I ask you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Suspect hardens!]] You want that. Today, we have already been talking about Philippine nurses, foreign construction workers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I only looked under "Xanthippe", not under "Anstand"!]] – You can still grölen like that. Today, this group of workers has already been mentioned. They find it right and cheap that they care for our sick, our old. But if they themselves have health problems, can no longer exercise this profession, can no longer be malleable, but can't go to disability pension, then we'll send them home and there they'll start at zero again. I ask you: Is that propriety? It also leaves a special light on your interpretation of propriety when the most recent figures, which are readily available from mid-June, are simply not used, but one resorts to old figures from the moth box, when one speaks of 40 000 unemployed foreigners, while it is only 19 100 when one speaks of 300,000 unemployed people as a whole, because one fits into the crab, but only 194 471. [[new calls for tender for the liberals]] The integration package is a concept for integration before new access. You've been shamefully silent about this so far. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What's under "Mottenkasse" in the Lexicon?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This package has therefore been withdrawn because one wants to discuss it again in all intensity and because of course one cannot ignore the situation on the domestic labour market. But I'm going to tell you something: This package also contains – and this shows that you interpret it completely incorrectly; but not because you do not understand it, but because it fits you into the electoral forces – for example, under point 3: At the same time, it must be ensured that the family is allowed to immigrate quotas in order not to re-establish and thus produce social hardships. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, if there is no room in the quota for the whole family, the individual labour force must not come either. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] - Yes, my God! You have people in your group who haven't even learned to read and stutter around here in a terrible way. But we are just so fair that we do not attack them when they are at the speaker's desk because they already have enough problems in their own group. – I wanted to tell you that because you put it that way. Mr Scheibner was a special "genie" in the calculation today. He mentioned numbers on immigration to Austria. I have the latest figures here: 1989: 53 000, 1990: 72 000, 1991: 91 000, 1992: 86 000, 1993: 44 000, 1994: 20 000, 1995: 15 000, together Austria 381,000. And now you've got it to the point. You said he was talking about Vienna. He said that 6 000 are reasonable. In this six-year period, that would be 36 000. When it comes to In Vienna, however, he called the number 600 000, while in Austria we are only 381,000. - That's how you play! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then, of course, you also say that we cannot combat illegal employment. – In doing so, you have decided with us the anti-abuse law against illegal employment. They say the government wouldn't have done anything. From your wait has been done enough, sometimes even too much – we have our problems there. Of course, we now have a situation on the labour market, which we have to take into account in the interests of foreign and domestic workers. The documents here state quite clearly that the group of foreign nationals to whom your entire polemic relates is 345,000 people, i.e. 4.3 percent of the total population of Austria. - That's how you work! They claim that in Austria more than a million foreigners are currently involved and that the problems in the labour market and in the financing of the social state would therefore be increasing. The Austrians would have to have a package of burdens over themselves, and yet the Federal Government would allow further movement. – I ask you: Where? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Once I invite you to Ottakring, you can see it! You're asking where!]] You can get involved in the sound, you can get out of the truth, and still subsume everything under "decent". Today the apprentices were also addressed, but figures were not mentioned. Here is – with yesterday's date, ladies and gentlemen –: The teaching centre market is still relatively quiet with the immediately available teaching posts and open teaching places to be occupied immediately. In mid-June 1996: 3 748 job seekers immediately available, 2 995 open places immediately accessible. There have already been 17 000 job-seekers for the period after completion of the school, but 12 500 open apprenticeships have already been reported for the same time. – All of this will be kept silent by you because it does not fit into your business because it does not fit into your preferred Vienna election campaign. I think that the "hazardousness" of the "F" and the populist politics that you are running could sufficiently convince people here today!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6307	Mr Scheibner asked for an actual correction. Mr deputies, please start with the presentation of the consolation you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6334	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reitsamer has shown me that I am unheard of with regard to the figures mentioned in my speech. It claimed that, contrary to the reality, I had spoken of 600 000 foreigners in Vienna. Mrs Reitsamer, you said: 600,000 in Vienna alone. I'm actually correcting: I used the following figures in my speech: I presented the period 1989-95, by the way, six years, Mrs Colleague, a period during which city councillor Swoboda spoke in the study of 36 000 eligible integrative foreigners. – In fact, 176 000 immigrants have come to Vienna during this period, Mrs Reitsamer! 176 000 and not 600 000. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Watch out, don't talk!]] And because you have also criticized and misstated the figures for Vienna, which we have mentioned here, I quote the Central Statistical Office with 750 000 legal foreigners throughout Austria and quote Mr. Mayor Häupl with 370 000 legal foreigners in Vienna and quote Mr. Stadtrat Hatzl with 100 000 illegal foreigners in Vienna. These are the real figures, Mrs Reitsamer! You could take a closer look at this, perhaps vote Then you can also join our programs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6383	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6404	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! If my colleague, the human rights-moved Green spokesperson, believes that the desire for a special meeting is a right, I believe that it is a right, but also that a right must not always be used. [[Abg. Scheibner:... but always allowed!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the decision of the one who has the right!]] I think there is an abuse there, for one reason that the cost of a special meeting is all 3.5 million schilling. Now my question, ladies and gentlemen of the "F": Could this amount not be used differently? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Dr. Kostelka warrants his relations with the meetings in Parliament!]] I also think that you, with your special session, are doing nothing but what my previous speakers have said, namely to be afraid. They don't frighten people, but they light them up. I believe that this is also very, very worrying in terms of security policy. We are going in the direction of Ghetto, which will not be good for all of us – exactly the opposite of what you mean. Because the faster integration takes place, the less the danger is that foreigners are being pushed off the edge of crime in subcultures – something you don't want. I also believe that Austria owes its good reputation to the state community not least to the fact that it has provided great assistance and that we continue to provide great assistance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's it called? – Not what we were yesterday, but what we will be together tomorrow, unites us. – We will have to make much more efforts to reduce prejudices against foreigners and foreigners – we know – in order to give these people not only an economic but also a fellow human home. Yes, I believe that the time is ripe for us to turn to some things for the better in order to involve these people here in Austria – for the sake of humanity and the reputation of Austria. The so-called popular desire of the FPÖ in 1992 founded "F" leader Dr. Haider at the time with the fact that one must also think of the domestics – as well as today. At that time in particular, the Church of Cardinal King and Bishop Kuntner clearly stated that this was for the first time a popular desire directed against people. – I ask you today, so many years later: Is that what you want? I ask you: Didn't you learn anything about it? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not think that can be justified. I'm just wondering where this really originates. For example, Wifo expert Dr. Biffl – often mentioned today – said: Foreigners remove jobs. – More Foreigners do not mean: more unemployed. Foreigners often carry out activities for which local workers are no longer available – under quotation marks. The foreign workers therefore help to safeguard our material prosperity, but also our quality of life. I believe that this should be recognized. For example, if, as you can see, our population is shrinking, we are moving towards an ageing age, it is important that we leave a certain number of migrant people in our country. I would like to sum up the position of the ÖVP with our clubman Khol as negotiators in the first row: Integration presupposes new immigration; Restriction of the re-entry of foreigners to a minimum; there must be no abuse in the case of asylum law. – We always said that. That's our top goal. With a special meeting, you probably create a few media reports from the liberals. But you really don't want to change anything and you can't do anything with it!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6489	Mr Krüger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Krüger, for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6511	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of the Interior! One of my previous speakers, Mrs Haller, has already mentioned what has attracted various media on the occasion of the ten-year anniversary of the Federal Chancellor as a summary of his previous work. This summary is naturally different – depending on whether it has come from a court rapporteur, a body biologist or a critical journalist. There was, for example, a lack of decision and the fact that the Federal Chancellor is more a moderator than an administrator. The former editor-in-chief of the "Presse" was also quoted, who is now working in Berlin, and was obviously able to make a clear assessment from abroad of the work of the Federal Chancellor. He came to the conclusion: Ten years of Vrannitzky are equivalent to ten years of virtue-terrorism in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In no other field of politics does this virtue-terrorism manifest itself more clearly than in foreign policy. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Are you for naked terror?]] Mr Novotny! This is another derailment you owe yourself to today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are against terror!]] As a catechist socialist, you should go better in clause and deal with the real problems that the Austrians are dealing with as unqualified calls for call! [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That was a compliment!]] If you view this as a compliment, it's even more sad for you. Ladies and gentlemen! If one speaks of virtue-terrorism, it is to be mentioned that a Cain-Abel principle is applied, especially in foreign policy, by the Social Democrats, but also by the Greens and Parts of the Liberal Forum; a Cain-Abel principle because one calls a good person, a humane politician, and a ban on those people and politicians who speak of the unbridled move of foreigners to Austria, as well as on those who are more concerned with the concerns of the Austrians, as is the case in our group. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the unbearable thing for me in this debate, and this is also due to the fact that there is no really meaningful foreign debate. Today, our clubman has launched the call for all forces to be put together in democracy in order to achieve a reasonable foreign policy. But it is precisely to this end that this Cain Abel policy of the self-proclaimed virtue terrorists, the self-proclaimed family guardians, should be removed. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it difficult – or not, depending on how you view it – to quote an icon of the 68th generation, namely Daniel Cohn-Bendit. He said something very right: The subject of democracy is the citizens. The citizens alone and the institutions they represent decide on foreign policy. And only these, ladies and gentlemen, decide whether Austria is an immigration country or not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is very easy to pretend from an ivory tower of prosperity from a basic humanistic attitude and in truth to disregard the fears and concerns of the Austrians! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I recommend the following: Take an excursion to the West Railway Station. It is always said that in the working-class districts you will bet against the high proportion of foreigners, but you will actually go from your penthouses, luxury villas and dwellings in the 19th century. District to the Westbahnhof and investigate You there the infrastructure – this is not a polemic – and you will find one: There, the proportion of foreigners has been so high that there is already a collapsing. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You actually live in Linz! They're Upper Austrians!]] Mr President, I should like to thank If you ignore this, ignore the fears and problems of the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are the district leaders of the Social Democratic Party beyond the "Gürtelmeile" who find that the foreigner's share is too high there than that any other infrastructure should take place. But, Mr President, you have not understood this again, nor is it surprising. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Also the bowl does not come down from its penthouse! He's in the penthouse, the bowl!]] I did not go into this discussion so optimistically anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria there are two schools of thought in foreign policy and in integration policy. Put to the point: One of the schools of thought is based on the fact that Austria is a country of immigration. This sentence has been said by the Minister for the Interior in this form, of course, under the agreement of the Greens. Mrs Stoisits has also authorized this dictum. Federal Chancellor! You could make a clarification here and today. They themselves said once or twice that an orderly move from foreigners to Austria could take place – an orderly move! Yes, please, how is that compatible with the statement that Austria is an immigration country? That's incredible! There's a difference! I'm expecting clarification here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because you don't understand!]] The second school of thought assumes that Austria is not an immigration country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not an unpleasant thing if one believes that Austria is not an immigration country. Go to the USA, drive to Australia – you will receive a note in your visa: Any employment is prohibited from staying longer than the approved duration. Classic immigration countries such as Australia or the United States of America consider a restrictive foreign policy to be the right immigration or integration policy! It's the same in England. No human has come to an end when a bus full of war refugees in England has not received asylum. However, it must also be clarified: For people involved in war, whose houses are bombarded, whose cities are destroyed, there must be some space in Austria. This is the meaning of asylum rights. But this also includes the granting of temporary asylum, and, of course, efforts to reintegrate after the end of the asylum period or the end of the war state. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it very unfortunate that genuinely meaningful proposals by the liberals – for example towards reintegration of the Bosnian refugees in Bosnia – are disregarded and put into ridiculous. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is essential to say to the people we have made available to Austria as a host country: Now is the time for you to rebuild your own land. And I am in favour, ladies and gentlemen, of giving the Bosnians generous help, for example, a kind of Marshall plan of the United States for the reconstruction of Bosnia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is now a few weeks since the Duo Khol-Einem – a strange combination of people, Mr Klubobmann, if you allow it – presented a solution to the change in the foreign rights at a joint press conference. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What's strange about that?]] Mrs Fekter, if you ask what is strange about this, I must tell you that this has also occurred to all journalists – to read it in the newspapers. Mr Klubobmann Khol was asked how he could have opposed his colleague Kiss a few days before The Minister of the Interior, according to press reports, has been regarded as a security risk, but has then come to this joint press conference. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The pillow would have watered like that!]] Mr Klubobmann, even if I should like to point out that your only explanation for this double conference was that you were chosen by Obmann Schüssel to conduct this press conference. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Paul Kissist fell by!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So the two gentlemen have proclaimed the solution to a change in the right of asylum, asylum, right of residence, have been proud of the breast, have gone up, have gone down the land and have announced the agreement. In Upper Austria, this has not gone unnoticed. Mr. Klubobmann Khol, also the head of the state of Upper Austria, Pühringer, has provided a headline to read in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" of the 20th century. May 1996: "One and pühringer agree: New foreign law is progress". Mr. Klubobmann! I think it is a rare blamage if one withdraws a announced agreement, a supposedly brilliant act of law a few weeks later with the expression of regret. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We still have principles!]] You have principles? I'm glad! Insight is the first way to improve. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am unexplained – perhaps the Upper Austrian colleagues, for example, Mrs Fekter, can point out – that on the one hand, the head of state of Upper Austria, Pühringer, announces that he is in agreement with One, but on the other hand a highly critical opinion is given by the Office of the Upper Austrian Government, which reads as follows: A review of the draft shows that the limitation of new immigration cannot be achieved to a large extent. Sanctionation of all foreigners illegally resident in Austria would take place if this law actually came into force. Dear Mr. Klubobmann! If you propose such a law, which makes everyone illegally legally in Austria overnight, I ask you: How seriously do you take the rule of law of Austria if you simply want to legalize the status of illegality – and this concerns 200 000 to 300 000 foreigners? Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that this proposal for a law has been withdrawn, among other things, because it has been suggested that Turkey has been excluded from the quota on the basis of an association agreement with the European Union. This is also the reason why the honourable Members are allowed to do so. Stadler, Dr. Krüger and colleagues in the National Council present a motion for a resolution as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion of my contribution to the debate: If we sit together, we sit at a table, we forget the application of the Cain Abel principle, then we can - I am convinced of this - create a fair legal situation for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6731	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krüger is sufficiently supported. I will involve him in the negotiations. Mr Magistrate. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6755	Mr President. Minister! High house! Today's special meeting on "advanced foreign policy" – which jeopardises Hohn anyway – as well as the demand for the return of unemployed people Foreigners should only once again heat up the foreign debate pointlessly. The efforts to combat ethnic prejudices are very, very strenuous, because individual experiences are highly stylised into flat-rate judgments and therefore a rational handling of the problem in such an atmosphere, such a heated mood is very difficult. If the only criterion for the classification of persons or groups, the only variable, is the origin of people, then it will be difficult to discuss. And if the evaluation according to the scheme is still dubious – indecent, lazy, neat – without subjecting all aspects of a precise review, then it becomes completely uncomfortable. The tragedy in the former Yugoslavia has long demonstrated what humans are capable of – even though they have lived on the door for decades – when everything that is not clearly identifiable as a friend is considered and destroyed as a potential enemy. In any case, we Socialists reject a policy that positively stimulates the awareness of values of one's own group, that other, foreign groups are being reduced on a flat basis, so that members of the group who are or feel in the very bottom of the social fabric find people who can still look down on them, so that the unemployed resident can see an enemy image in the unemployed foreigners, so that frustrations and aggressions can be better projected on outsiders. We don't need a friend enemy Shamata. We will not allow foreign groups to be diabolicized, that they will become intermittent peace or scapegoats to compensate for their own fear and helplessness. Unfortunately, we can achieve election-political success in Europe through the calculated game with fears, emotions and resentments. And unfortunately, xenophobia is campaignable, because there is no doubt a certain level of resonance for foreigners and appeals, because there are people who have a stereotyped and distorted image of foreigners, and because it is obvious that up to now one could still lay down in elections – there is no such thing as winning it – because one can be perfectly satisfied with half-true and flat-rate prejudices that hang on stereotypical everyday stories such as history with the hammocking of Mrs. Partik-Pablé, because one can use fears and threats for a few benevolent voices. The proposal on the repatriation or return aid, which is unknown to how many foreigners would benefit from this, is a sad but true proof: The problem is just hidden anyway. The problem is not the return of the unemployed to their homes, but the constant updating of the xenophobia. Nor is it a mistake to operate with false figures, whether it is 36 000 foreigners or 23 570, as the labour market service shows. The problem cannot be solved by any means. It is only to be speeded up once again that all the other problems of the global labour market can be solved with this foreign-sex strategy. If Mr. Dr. Haider makes it dependent on the outcome of this special meeting, whether there will be a second foreign folk desire in autumn, then one should tell the FPÖ to start it so that Austria will give Dr. Haider the second deserved defeat! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The current strategy is not unknown, it fits exactly in the direction of the first popular desire. Dr. Haider has already entered the public several times with the economic and labour-politically unsustainable accounting of unemployment and host labour. He's already said: "But one should also have the courage – this is a problem that is constantly becoming more acute in Vienna – to question whether it is necessary for us to have over 180 000 guest workers in Austria at the present time with 140 000 unemployed. I find it embarrassing that 180 000 unemployed have been reported, while 140 000 guest workers are still in the country." Such a comparison has already existed in this country, only the enemy group were the Jews at that time, and the time was that before 1938. But it fits very precisely in your cultural policy line that, for example, the Land Party's leadership of the Freedom Party of Austria's Burgenland sees the inflow to Austria with great concern: "This one is associated with a menacing increase in schineylants, criminals and so on and brings problems that undermine the foundations of our identity and culture." – Published in the "Aula" in March 1990. Or a certain Mr Werner Wittmann – perhaps you know him – writes in the "Kärntner Nachrichten", your liberal organ: "The drive for self-preservation, the instinct, which benefits Western peoples, will not at least be lifted up and perverted by such an urgent appeal of the Austrian Bishops' Conference and its spokesperson for our home territory. Finally, this Austrian church people is not to blame for the propagation and the train of human lemmings." – "Kärntner Nachrichten" of 25. ==References== The popular desire is an instrument of the people. It must not be the instrument of a party policy, nor at the expense of taxpayers, and it must not be an instrument against people at all. Her patriotic joke, this home scumbag of people who call Austria a "miscarriage", deeply excites me. Austria is neither an immigration country nor an immigration country. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Hundreds of thousands of Austrians also earn their bread abroad and may want to return home sometime. A popular desire does not free us from the need for housing, rent or speculation. I think that many FPÖ politicians – and hopefully not illegal – work as foreigners as foreigners, such as Mr Prinzhorn, for example, also employed foreigners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Political asylum saved many Austrians in World War II. Foreign aid has eased the hunger of many desperate Austrians. So that you don't have to be so outraged and so that I can take my speech a little bit to the top: Although Mr. Karl Valentin did not know Mr. Haider – I cannot be Bavarian – I cannot therefore make his dialogue authentically Bavarian – please allow me to quote a little story, a small anecdote, namely, "The aliens". "A stranger isn't always a stranger." "Why?" – "Foreign is the stranger only in the stranger." – "That is not wrong. And why does a stranger feel foreign only to strangers?" – "Because every stranger who feels strange is a stranger until he no longer feels strange, then he is no longer a stranger." – "What are strangers among strangers?" – "Foreigners are when strangers cross a bridge, and under the bridge a train with strangers passes through, so the transiting strangers are strangers, what you, Mr. Teacher, may not understand so quickly." – "And what are locals?" – "The locals are actually not the most strange strangers. The local does not know the stranger, but at first glance knows that it is a stranger." – "If a stranger wants an information from a stranger?" – "Very simple! If a stranger in a foreign city ask a stranger for anything foreign to him, the stranger shall say to the stranger: Unfortunately, I'm strange, because I'm a stranger here myself. – So the opposite of aliens would be strange. If a stranger has a acquaintance, this acquaintance may have been strange to him at first, but by becoming acquainted with each other the two are no longer strange. But if the two travel together to a foreign city, these two acquaintances have now become strangers again in the foreign city. So the two of them – which is paradoxical – became strangers to each other." I'd like to dedicate this story to you, if you like, thinking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6864	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6886	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At first glance, everything seemed so logical, so simple, so primitive, should be and wanted to believe without letup what is put on the table by the liberals. At best, no foreigners at all – that is the only blessed state for our country!, so is the land up, the basic motto everywhere in the catch of the FPÖ. I too believe - I do not want to hide this - that Austria cannot be the country of immigration in Europe. I too believe that the move-in should be limited according to certain criteria. I too believe that abuses have to be eliminated at various levels in connection with foreigners, but I do not believe that all problems can be dealt with on a comb, as the FPÖ always does, by constantly trying to introduce to the Austrians that this simplified view is the only correct one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Perhaps you don't even understand how to understand relationships, or maybe you don't want to see any more contexts at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the foreign policy of the liberals, I can't befriend myself. We parliamentarians are called upon to respond on the one hand humanely and on the other hand to take account of the needs of a controlled foreign immigration. Nowotny and Khol have already told us today – I want to put it back in the room – that we called workers and people came. This is the central issue that we have to accept. We have to deal with this, and we must not degradate the human beings to work animals. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Some guidelines of foreign policy from the point of view of the EIA have already been outlined. In addition, however, I would like to make it quite clear, namely that the laws on foreigners should not only be better coordinated, but also that the coordination between the various ministries must work better. In negotiations with the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, an orderly labour market situation and, on the other hand, a strengthening of the right of residence and foreigners to work must be achieved. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is also provided for in the Government's work programme. It cannot be said that there should be no entitlement to work for family members if they are legally resident in the country. Do we want to conjure up social cases from the outset and thus, at the end of the day, promote the control of public checkouts? – This cannot be our view at the time of a savings package! It cannot be said that a minister wants to open the borders, even to open up even further, while his colleague, Federal Minister Hums, who is still coming from the same group, wants to build more and more walls, so many walls that we can no longer look over them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is only one thing that can be better than a handle in the public cash registers, namely if the foreigners legally resident in Austria can also devote legal work to the legal work when the economy is needed, if they are allowed to take up the work legally. [[Abg. Grabner: What do you think the economy is doing?]] Thank God there is still a need in the economy! It would be best for you not to have a foreigner and no longer to have an economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] The Austrian economy, however, needs foreign workers, needs auxiliary workers, just as we also need the key forces provided for in the draft law. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP.]] An example, ladies and gentlemen: There are 10 134 unemployed in Salzburg, of which 8 281 are domestics and 1 853 foreigners. I have in my company a complete documentation of all the applications for the last three years: Hundreds will have been there in these years. And almost always it turns out that relief services no longer want to be provided. The tourism industry, however, can, like other industries and public institutions, hospitals, old-age homes et cetera, not only offer management posts. The simple milkmaid bill of the liberals, which has been discussed several times today, that it is possible to face 300,000 unemployed 300 000 foreigners, does not appear because it does not take into account qualifications and local circumstances – and this shows the plumpous demagogy operated by the liberals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Of course! If you are already making the call, I am accusing you of the internal political arson just as I would have accused Mr Jörg Haider if he had been here. They are those who incite people against people who incite foreigners against foreigners and foreigners against foreigners, who are here briefly against the long-standing here and the long-standing against the short-lived ones. – That can’t be what we want at the end of the day! – That’s your “suitability” – we have a different view of propriety! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We can draw three conclusions from what has been said so far: First: The economy needs foreign workers, and I also, as tourism spokesperson of the EIA, naturally advocated drawing on and conveying the currently unemployed people and foreigners before granting employment permits for new foreigners. If this is not possible, the appropriate permits must be granted, otherwise there will be a black labour market, and thus there would be black workers in the future, and we do not need this in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, The employability of domestic workers must be increased. The rules on availability are still further changed – I do not want to say: intensifyed – when that has already happened. However, these reinforced provisions also apply – in the districts, in the countries. I believe that we must ensure that we achieve automatic redundancies of the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that other types of work permit must be forced; the seasonal status must be extended and the border regulations should be better established. Work, housing, but also integration are the conditions for the stay of foreigners in Austria. Of course, there is also criticism of the previous proposals, which I do not want to hide at all. For example, the claim that employers have to provide local homes for foreign employees would be a substantial preference to the national. I believe that we need to see social policy. It is not possible, at the end of the day, that the State or one of its commissioners will generally have to ensure that an apartment is made available. This would bring us closer to our eastern demands: The state takes care of everything. - We can't go there. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should start the discussion, where you can intervene, prove yourself and address these problems. But I don't think you've heard anything about it until today, otherwise one of your speakers would have mentioned it at least once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! If you were to deal with our ideas, which we have been bringing here for years on the "market" – under quotation marks – then many of your demands would no longer be met, then you could join ours. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! The Kasperl Theatre, the You have presented us here today, namely that a crocodile called FPÖ wants to eat all foreigners, you could have saved us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] - Oh, my God! To conclude, I should like to say the following: Don't worry about 1,000 years. You won't be 100 years old – your party leader and not the entire FPÖ. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7030	Mrs Preisinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7052	Dear Mr. Federal Chancellor – he is no longer in the hall. Mr. Federal Minister! I see with joy that you are still among us. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a pity that Mr Cap is no longer among us, but... – No, let me speak out. [[Abg. Kiss: Where's the shark?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – I think I know where he's going. I can imagine: After this self-representation, which he has offered here, this theatre with little seriousness and with completely ignorant attitude, after this self-representation, which he obviously needs again and again in the Hohes Haus from the speaker's desk, he may have disappeared into the castle theatre. He may have offered himself there as a new Burgtheatermime by Director Peymann. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: He can do better than you!]] – In contrast to Mr Cap, I do not need this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If he mentions that the figures – be it the crime statistics, it is the number of citizenships in Vienna regarding – have fallen, then it is probably clear how these figures came about. For example, what do we do about crime statistics? – A very simple but very effective trick: It simply changes the basics of the individual statistics over and over again, and different bases are used, which means that the statistics are no longer comparable in order to achieve the desired result. As far as the citizenship in Vienna from 1990 to 1995 is concerned, Mr Cap is also in good company with the Mayor of Vienna of SPÖ, who today, in a press service, simply dropped under the table 1 500 citizenships. According to him, instead of the 48,676 citizenships in the years 1990 to 1995, there are only 47,100 – and this, although there are official figures of the Statistical Office of the City of Vienna. So it can be assumed that the mayor has either no idea what numbers his magistrate raises, or that, as has been so often, a fogging action should run over the stage. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's too much at his town hall festivals!]] - That's it. Mr Puttinger! I'm sure you're right, it's a Kasperl Theatre, but it's not a Kasperl Theatre that we've organized here by the Freemans, but it's from the government side, especially from the SPÖ, like it's inseparable and how ignorant you deal with this issue of foreign affairs – that's a real problem, it's a big problem, especially in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can tell you that, I assure you, we will come back to colleagues Cap, the population of Vienna, especially the population in Hernals, in its political district, which is very well said and made sure that one learns with which "resist", which theater and what spectacle he has withdrawn from his speech here. Federal Chancellor! They have shaped the word "cynicism" in connection with our reintegration model. Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor is no longer here, but perhaps he can be executed. Where is your excitement, your bright outrage, when the district leaders of the belt districts in Vienna call for the aliens to be discharged, a dilution – literally a "dilution of the foreign concentration" – and this on a so-called voluntary basis? That's cynicism! Where's your excitement, your indignation? But I would like to refer specifically to a number of examples as the honourable Member of Vienna. A really historic date – you should remember that – is the 10. In June 1996, because of the fact that a classical and clear admission to debt of SPÖ took place on this day, in particular the Wiener SPÖ and once again in the person of the mayor of Vienna, who has often been quoted today, who said that the government's immigration policy has led to the unacceptable and unbearable state of the population of Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] He replied to the question of whether one has dealt with the move too carelessly in the past – listen, Mr Parnigoni, you will still fall out of your eyes like dandelion; You might want to "The Press" from 10th. Read June –, stone and clear: yes; a simple, simple and clear yes. He doesn't talk around the tree and adds the sentence: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You'll be nervous when you hear this, Mr. Parnigoni!]] As someone who grew up politically in Ottakring, I was able to understand all of this. - Well, here we go. The Vorarlberg government has calculated – which has already been tailor-made today, but it cannot be repeated often enough – that the integration package expects an immigration of 153,000 people. Clearly, the Vorarlberger Landesgoverung has failed to pay attention here because the socialist city councillor Hatzl, who is responsible for immigration and foreign policy, has said clearly that this family combination alone in Vienna – not all of Austria – will migrate to 100 000 to 150 000 within a very short time, and we will not do so. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP – it should now be clarified in the ranks of the ÖVP whether the ÖVP has said that Austria is a country of immigration or not – in this respect discrepancies are obviously eliminated – that Austria is a country of immigration. Obviously you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, have lost any political sensitivity and any sensitivity that can be expected to be politically real to the population and to the people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But realism is – I quote Christoph Kotanko of the "Kurier" of 27. In July 1995, he defined this – that Austria is not a country of immigration. Realism means that Austria is not an immigration country. This study "Vienna 2010", which has been quoted several times today, has to be made more precise and above all read the preface, as the precise key principle for the entire government's immigration and foreign policy can be found in the preface. I repeat that this study dates back to 1990 – it is not from this year, not from the previous year, but was created six years ago on behalf of the Magistrates' Division 18 and paid with Austrian taxpayers' money; it was not very cheap. There you can read: Old Mayor – then mayor – Dr. Helmut Zilk – I remember that he is also from the SPÖ – said: It may be that the refugee boat is full, but the immigrant ship is empty. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is stone and clear which course was set, which course was taken, because when 75 000 to 80 000 Bosnian war refugees came to Austria, they suddenly closed the borders with refugees and said that no one could take up because the reception capacity is exhausted. Why? – Because the number of encroachers and fencers was already too high and the reception ability was no longer given. If another policy had been adopted at the time, this would have ultimately benefited the Bosnian refugees of war. That is what we liberals always stand for: that, in accordance with the Geneva Convention, refugees are excluded from all of this and that they are of course helped because it is simply humane. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to point out once again the looser naturalisations in Vienna. What did you think of it? A legal waiting period of ten years to obtain Austrian citizenship is simply reduced to four years. In the years 1990 to 1995, more than 48 000 foreigners were allowed to enter, the peak being 9 500 in 1994 alone. Of course, the procedure is completely clear, including the intention to put it behind it: A dwindling SPÖ voter potential should be improved and new electoral layers should be used for the SPÖ. Mayor Häupl once said in an interview: I don't know what anyone wants. . I suggest to him here that he knows very well what One wants, just as the whole of Vienna SPÖ and the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ in the government very well know what they want, namely to recruit their dwindling voters again. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why don't they run for the Vienna Landtag?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Vienna is the most burdened by foreigners!]] That is the reason, not humanity, but simply party-political tactical calculation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You must be color-blind or anything else!]] What does this have to do with color blindness? I can assure you, Mr Parnigoni, that I am neither color-blind nor weak. However, it is argued against the Austrian population quite twice. In this context, I would remind you again of Mr Cap's 'esteem', who, in the course of the election campaign of the Hernals district population, has spoken or assured that he is virtually unavailable for another move by foreigners and that he will also make political efforts to ensure that another move does not take place. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But that's where he owes us today!]] Today he has remained guilty to us of the answer. It has dizzy elegantly around it, because it is finally black on white, and you can't just put it under the carpet, so according to the motto: it has been caught. ==References== In June 1996, the Constitutional Service of the Office of the Upper Austrian Government of the Integration Package had a fundamental criticism. I'm just quoting one passage of it: As a result of the planned facilitated family integration, non-predictable costs in kindergartens, in the school sector are expected by additional classes and foreign language teachers and in the field of vocational training in teaching and study. The Vorarlberg Government also has a similar outcome. The fact is that the situation in education and school in Vienna is already extremely critical and sad. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where do you live?]] I am a Vienna MP and I live in Vienna in a district where I know very well what it is about. 220,000 kindergartens are missing. In the housing area there is a constant latent demand, in Vienna alone, 100 000 people are looking for an apartment and 16 000 have a pre-eminent note for a municipal apartment. 4.2 billion schilling costs the Austrian school system every year the care of foreign children. [[Abg. Parnigoni: In the 19th century The district lives the woman Preisinger!]] You know, unlike you, I move out of my residential district and am constantly in conversation with the citizens. I know what's going on in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Noble address!]] I do not sit at home like in a golden cage and look at the world from its own four walls. This is something that obviously distinguishes us very much. [[Abg. Edler: In Grinzing with foreigners!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: I believe that you are suffering from the foreigners in the green!]] Shall I repeat it again? Is it so hard to understand, or should I say it slower so that you can think in? Of these 4.2 billion Schillings alone 1.8 billion Schilling can be attributed to Vienna. The massive migration of recent years has shown great impact, especially on Vienna's school life. The 56 000 mother tongue-speaking children in national and primary schools face 30,000 foreign-speaking children. This has led to additional ghettoization. – Unfortunately, the lamp is already beginning to shine, but I do not want to keep these small examples away from you. There are public schools in Vienna, not only in the 15th, 16th, 17th or 18th. ==References== The district, such as the Neustiftgasse, in which the share of children with Austrian citizenship is only 21 percent, in the 10th century. District, Bernhardtstalgasse: 29 percent, 14. District, Lortzinggasse: 30 percent, 15. District, Friedrichsplatz: 28 percent, Goldschlagstraße: 31, Selzergasse: 32. – I won’t spare you that now –, Ortnergasse: [[Abg. Parnigoni: In Grinzing!]] 29 percent. And the summit rider of all this is the 16th. district, the Gaullachgasse, with only more than 18 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! This list could be continued at any time. If, in today's edition of the "Kurier", mayor Häupl fully states that this is not at all necessary, what the district leaders propose, namely to introduce a 50 percent clause in public schools, because the problem was resolved by itself, then I wonder if he is world-wide or whether he does not know the situation, although he is not only the mayor of Vienna, but also Vienna's head of state and as such president of the Vienna City School Council. Does he not know – or does he not want to know himself? – I think the second one is to be assumed.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7332	The next speaker is Mr Edler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7353	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression to be at a meeting of the Vienna Landtag, but we are in the House. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what prompted the "F" to put another urgent question. I remember the popular desire "Austria first". At that time the same speeches were made, so we would not have to listen to this today. We could have listened to a tape or watched a videotape. They are the same statements, the same contents. What do you want, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, to do with that? – They want to create the spirit of election. They did this a few weeks ago before the Burgenland elections and now do it again because in Vienna the election campaign for the 13th. ==References== [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a disdain of Parliament!]] Mr. Mayor Häupl has been mentioned very often today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Vienna FPÖ – there are a few Members here – you seem to be afraid of Mayor Häupl, of the Vienna SPÖ! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] They're insecure. They're hiding your top candidates. He is currently posterted in Vienna, but he is almost unknown. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Let's talk after the election, dear friend!]] Dr. Haider said a few years ago that the office of the mayor of Vienna would be interesting to him. But Mr. Dr. Haider withdrew. I think the patch of a direct political debate in Vienna is too hot for him. Ladies and gentlemen! They want to create a systematic electoral spirit here. And I must also tell you this because we have talked about job creation: At today's meeting, unfortunately, no single job was created. And it would be necessary for the Federal Government, which has started many measures, to have time to implement these measures. We know the concepts of the Federal Government, they must be implemented, we must negotiate, we must involve the economy. But it seems that you are only interested in binding the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister to the Government Bank, because with this, you believe, unless the government is unable to act. But the Federal Government with Federal Chancellor Vranitzky has set up a lot of employment activities in recent months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been allowed to receive and discuss with some foreign delegations in recent weeks. Austria enjoys high appreciation, high reputation in the world. Take note of this! In the political debate, use a language that can be represented. It is not up to some, when reading reports, to ask themselves: What is the situation in Austria? What about the xenophobia of foreigners? And there are many in your party – some have already been mentioned today – who repeatedly make the demand: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: More and more!]] We need foreign workers. They have invented a new model in order not to be regarded as a black business operator. Very interesting! We will look at this very well from the legal representation, the Chamber of Workers, how it is with the volunteers. This is a new model to deal with the whole thing. Perhaps that's the case with you, that's already been mentioned today. The liberal educational work is said to have employed black workers. Ladies and gentlemen! The behaviour of the "F" has not changed, it still applies: blackening, evaporating, limiting and creating fear – Mr Posch has already referred to it today. I think we should be obliged to act differently, to seek together, also with foreign colleagues, fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1945, when our fathers came home, they said: Watch out, seek to be together, not the one against the other. That should be our primary task. The demand of the "F": "Foreigners out" is inhuman, humane and far from our society. We should be particularly careful with such a language. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The same claim as the trade union fine!]] I'll talk about it too. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again to Mayor Häupl! He stressed that since he took office, he has always advocated a decent and humane foreign integration policy in Vienna. They also speak of "decent". They want a proper integration policy, and this is a foreign-noise policy, which is a deportation, ladies and gentlemen. This is strict because it is humane. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there are also problems: It is not true that the Federal Government or the representatives of the Social Democratic Party do not recognize the problems, especially the problems in Vienna. We have to take note of this. Some district leaders have also said whether they are social democrats or members of the ÖVP: There are districts where the acceptance of people is no longer given, there are too many foreigners. But I ask colleagues Schöll: How many rental contracts have you concluded? There are many real estate sharks in all political directions that foreign colleagues use in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schöll.]] Let us know how much money you earn with foreign colleagues, if they need an apartment! – This is strict. Ladies and gentlemen! The leader of the FPÖ has once announced that the problems would be easily solved with more monitoring, more control, and he has also made a proposal for savings at the same time. He proposed that the Ministry of Defence and the Interior should be put together, thus creating a super security minister. There is no longer even this in dictatorships in South America. – But that testifies to your political attitude. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I would like to refer to the positions of the AK and the ÖGB. They haven't changed. Ladies and gentlemen! We were the first in the Chambers of Workers and in the trade unions to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger]] If the economy needs foreign workers, then they must be able to enter in order, there must be apartments available, and there must be free jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! This fundamental position on the part of the AK and the ÖGB has not changed. We will have a great discussion about the proposals submitted by the Minister for the Interior, and also about those of Klubobmann Khol. So we want to open the debate again and perhaps resolve some of the difficulties that exist together. For us this is also a time question. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: It is essential that, despite the savings package that we carry together and for which there is also acceptance in the population, the Federal Government of Vranitzky was able to make employment plans that are now beginning to take hold. We see very clearly the figures of unemployment statistics which are declining that these projects are taking place. The so-called 30-billion schilling project was developed especially for Vienna, but not only for Vienna, but for the entire Eastern region, i.e. for the so-called EU region. Investment will result in thousands of jobs being secured or re-created. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, man is at the heart of us. And we should make politics for people, but not for people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7470	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7491	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of the Interior! High house! After listening to the speeches of the liberals, I can only say as a summary for the ÖVP here and now: There really is nothing new about foreign policy at FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is once again the evil banal renunciation of popular desire of 1992, it is coffee from yesterday: cold, shale and abandoned – no more and no less. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] So it's not like that, because I've read through the urgent request anyway. Two new nuances have come into this urgent request, so to speak, two facets of topicality. There are once the "evil" Turks, against these "evil" Turks we must proceed consistently. Then, of course, there are also the "evil" Bosnians, these de facto refugees who have nothing to look for with us. So let's take these two groups into the inquiry, then we've put in the beautiful package of a random new foreigner's desire. This is exactly the policy with which you make it so difficult for us to talk to you. We reject that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I personally donate one: In contrast, you have agreed with us on better knowledge – those Members of the Committee on Internal Affairs – you have called for this special meeting to be convened today. On Thursday 20th. In June, in two days, we, the members of the Committee on Internal Affairs, meet and have a big debate on the Foreign Rights Change Act. So we are doing exactly what the opposition has called for in its entirety. But two days before, you're gonna hit us with this urgent request on the table. I can't do that, I don't want to go with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As admittedly fashionable, current, time-consuming comes Her leader Jörg Haider comes out and presents himself as Biedermann. I don't know if the word " Biedermann" fits in this case, it would be more like the term "modern Biedermann". But what he says as he says it is accompanied by you who came out as a speaker is for me a classical arson. I won't be with you! That's not what we're going to do with the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Like a red thread, our clubman's line of argument has gone through, and it has also said the same thing to Mr Novotny. It's true: At that time in the 1960s and 1970s we, the Austrians, meant we need the host workers. We need them as workers, they are part of what we want to bring with our identity into the economy. We called host workers, but people came. Our policy, the policy of the ÖVP, is to understand these people, to approach them, to integrate them, to make them the ones we believe are developing a share in the economy as a whole of Austria. It is only right and cheap to give them that share back. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I notice a second point with the Freedom Party. Since former Minister of the Interior Franz Lösnak is sitting here as a Member, I must stress the fairness and above all the correctness of something – it has not been said today –: The changes in the East in 1989 have brought new demands to us, the parliamentarians. Under its leadership, the ÖVP, together with the SPÖ, agreed to the new Xenophobia Act, the Asylum Act and the Residence Act. The Freedom Party has not only cooperated in these legislative instruments, but has also voted in favour of them. [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] If what we have defined and decided in 1991 and 1992 was valid at the time and has not changed the situation, except for the Turks and Bosnians, as we have heard, I wonder what the present staging of this spectacle is good for. That's just another proof of the double mortality of your argumentation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Vienna elections!]] Of course, my previous speakers said it: The liberals are depraved. This detachment wasn't that hard. ==References== October is in the house, the Vienna elections are coming, and there you have to stop before this 13. In October, in a last breath, raise that topic, make it important to add to the increase, of which you know, you could maximize voices. I hope you get in, I would wish you the most. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party, through Klubobmann Andreas Khol, has clearly and emphatically presented the positions with which we entered the negotiations with the SPÖ for this new Foreign Rights Amendment Act. I have already said on the occasion of my last speech, because I was a participant in this round of negotiations, that since the last September, when we brought in this foreign law amendment law, the procedure has been an exemplary one. I would like to see this procedure chosen in all areas on which we are negotiating, namely, to be put together, to exchange views, to draw up an overall concept and to present it together. I am in favour of this draft, but of course I am also referring to the suggestions that have been received in the course of the reviews on this foreign law amendment law. I believe that SPÖ and ÖVP will go a good way if the whole opposition cries out. One of them is on us, because it's simply not open enough what we're presenting, and the others are going to knock on us by saying: We call on all foreigners to do so. In this diametric contrast is this law, it is a good law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, what can I add to my thinking? – In the course of the next negotiations, we have to consider four points that have been properly implemented in the course of this review process, as I believe. On the one hand: The law, which includes the Residence Act, the Xenophobia Act and the Asylum Act, should be legible. It is therefore intended to be taken up as a whole in order to make it understandable to everyone. This is a first important result of this review procedure, which is necessary for us as legislators. Secondly, We call for a reorganisation of the appeals. We want the independent management Senate to be integrated, of course, with the involvement of the countries. But we believe that this is only right and cheap. Thirdly, We say that, in the field of asylum law, it is necessary to ensure the verifiability of the provisional decisions on asylum applications at the border – also in agreement with what was said on 10 October. In March 1995, the Council adopted a resolution on minimum guarantees. Fourth: I absolutely agree with my colleague Günter Puttinger and I also agree with the intentions of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. It is quite simply a matter of harmonizing the laws on residence and foreigners' employment. For this we make ourselves strong, these are our positions, the ÖVP aims to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7599	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7620	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I have often heard the sentence today, in several different forms, most recently by Mr Kiss: We called workers, and people came. That is true, that is not apprehension by anyone, nor is it the problem – perhaps with the exception of foreign workers present in the country, if one considers the treatment of these workers somewhat more precisely. Mr Edler from my district has already said a lot. He also spoke about how to deal with foreign citizens. I will give him an example from our home, which shows how a red cooperative is dealing with an employee or, better said, with an employee, namely a housekeeper in this village cooperative. The lady has been a housemaster in Austria for 20 years. For the past nine years, she has been working as a house caretaker in this red village association and this winter – that is to say, one has to imagine – has been cancelled on the grounds that one day in this winter she did not have the snow properly – supposedly not properly – removed. This lady has now tried a trial and asked for help. Today, there is no longer a foreign home-career, namely Mrs Olga N., but a cleaning company that has been commissioned by this red settlement association, which carries out the work with foreign workers cheaper than the long-term foreigner. That is exactly where the point is open on the displacement market, and that is exactly where the missing foreign policy of the past and, in particular, the dealings of the socialists with our foreign competitors is shown. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The past, that is, what happened earlier, is a problem in itself. We definitely have to deal with these fellow human beings humanely and neatly. Today, the problem is different. Today, people call for work and home. You know that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now comes the cap!]] If I look at what is currently being spread by the SPÖ up to the present day, although it has just been said by Mr Kiss that this package has been withdrawn at the pressure of the opposition of the liberals, I am sorry that today at 1 p.m. 46 minutes still with the image of the Minister of the Interior – you can convince yourself that the integration package can be accessed on the Internet – is presented from the perspective of the Minister of the Interior as follows: Here we are talking about a new immigration to cover up to 6 000 people. So good, so right. In the next point – and I quote – it is immediately said: "It will continue as before for a transitional period" – we know this: several years – "of which there will have to be a quota for family succession from likely four years as before. Here, the spouses and children currently living abroad are included by foreigners who have already settled in Austria. This quota will amount to between 11,000 and 12,000 over the next four years." That means, fact is: In the next four years, it is planned that 17 000 to 18 000 foreigners will migrate legally. In addition, point 6 states that there is no need for quota places for persons who are either not labour market-relevant – whatever that may be; obviously they are pensioners or wealthy people, perhaps others, they are called for example the wealthy foreigners – or they only stop in Austria in the short term and determined, for example students. Similarly, no quota space needs members of Austrians. - So far, so good. What's behind that? Furthermore, also available on the Internet today, "spö wien/infopool/positionen", sent to the whole world: "The SPÖ in Vienna for a match." It reads in item M 11 "that more than 90 percent of applications by foreigners already living in Vienna are made positive". – This is a joy for our immigrants. The other thing here is: "The number of naturalisations has increased to around 9 000 a year and has commuted at this level. This – and this is the SPÖ's demand – "will ensure that the current practice of naturalisation procedures with regard to a strict examination of the legal requirements and the integration carried out remains fully maintained". – There the chickens laugh when we assume that the current strict test is sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen! There's always a lot of talk about what's decent and what's indecent. It is necessary to discuss this concept, but I would like to add some facts. I mean – and many of my friends think so – that it is inappropriate to move foreigners without being told where to go at the same time. If Mr Mayor and some district councillors think that a foreigner has to be relocated in Vienna, they should also mention in a breath where to move. For example, in the Danube city, Mr Edler, where we have a relatively low share of foreigners? – If that is the case, tell your voters that you want to settle the foreigners there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Tell me about that! Do not always talk in general: being relocated, being diluted, are to be distributed without saying where. You obviously want to win voters too, and that's why you don't say that. That's inappropriate in my eyes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also inappropriate if one disregards the Vienna city constitution. Mr Edler, what do you or the comrades say about this? In § 103h of the Vienna Constitution, one of the powers of the district president is to have opinions on requests for the award of citizenship. That's in the Constitution! We have 9 000 citizenships in Vienna. The answer to a request I made in 1994 – it has not changed anything in the meantime – at the time still in Vienna-Donaustadt shows that in no case did the district leader give an opinion in all of Vienna. That's in the Constitution! This is to be taken into consideration! It is inappropriate if the Constitution is not observed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is inappropriate to say that the move is limited to 6 000 per year, and it should be noted that the move last year amounted to only 4 500. What does it mean to limit? That's an extension! In fact, as we have worked out, we are supposed to migrate to a total of 17 000 to 18 000 per year. It is inappropriate to go out and say that there is a limit to 6,000 to suggesting to the people that the number of immigrants is in decline: In truth, however, it is celebrated and prepared. I think that's inappropriate! It is also inconvenient that one suddenly speaks the word of the belief in citizenship that has already been overcome. What will happen if unemployed Austrians no longer find a job on the labour market and then perhaps give citizenship for their marriage due to locks from abroad? We have overcome this, that has rightly been changed! And now the Minister of the Interior is planning that people who have closed citizenship sees – that is what he literally calls reading in his paper! – to be privileged in immigration. It is inappropriate to fall back into the Middle Ages in these questions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also inappropriate, however, to promote, in electoral prospectuses, that political work in the National Council will lie in preventing the foreign inflow to Hernals, but then, after the election, permanently do the opposite. This is inconvenient with your foreign policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the end, it is inappropriate to try to solve a truly existing problem – a foreign problem that must be solved – with the only weapon, namely with naturalisation and additional inflow, whereby the citizens fall out of the quota, which will enable them to draw even more. Ladies and gentlemen! I think all these points are inappropriate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You'll believe it to me: The majority of the population will also consider these points to be inappropriate. I would remind Mr Edler at every election event in autumn that he should inform the people that in Vienna-Donaustadt there may be an increase of 20,000 foreigners, if one wants to distribute evenly. What would that mean? – They are for the expansion of the S 80 and for the development of the Marchegger aste. There are to be 20,000 apartments. Should these 20,000 apartments be used, for example, for the redistribution of your red comrades? What's going to be Are you answering the citizens you are asking, Mr. Edler? That's where you'll be required. And we will remind you of how indecent You have always spread differently here than you always want to make the decent citizens know outside. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The interesting thing is that MP Khol does not know the papers at all, that the Interior Ministers are still hunting the whole world over the Internet. He is proclaiming a completely different number there than he has obviously packed with Mr Khol. This is only significant for the coalition in itself – one will make a picture. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In order to solve many problems, I would now like to put forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, all these demands are also demands represented by Members of Parliament in the Chamber of Workers who represent the Trade Union Confederation. And if we can bring about such a solution, as this request intends, then in the future the Federal President will be able to travel with a calm conscience to state visits to Turkey and not be afraid of... I won't pronounce it. He will then be able to go there calmly and have discussions with his colleagues, because then the employment policy here in Austria, especially for our working foreign fellow citizens, has become decent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7743	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Marizzi is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7767	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the "Kronen-Zeitung" of tomorrow is related to today's debate about foreigners: "Wine choice is presumptuous of their shadows." And I think it's about the foreigners of the Freedom Party. I would like to mention a few figures: In 1994, we had a foreign share of 8.9% in Austria. Belgium had 10 percent, the Federal Republic of Germany 8.6 percent, Switzerland 18.6 percent and Luxembourg 32 percent. Immigration has gradually decreased in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! Economics and employment and thus foreign employment are actually inseparably linked. The international press writes that the fundamental economic data are good. The financial markets have honoured the Austrian consolidation efforts, writes the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung". Our exports have a significant growth. There is no break in domestic consumption, and we are better than some other countries in Europe. That is, no one is fleeing to Europe, but at the head of the German Chancellor, we are addressing unemployment in Europe. We are in favour of a proper employment policy, as we think it is: Export offensive, location safeguards, investment in the future and, above all, the fight against unemployment and training and re-training. I think that is the best answer to poverty and exclusion. Because I've already stressed the press, I want "The Press" of 12. Cite June 1996. It is said again and again that in Austria a lot is bad, everything is done wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! The standard of living in Austria has changed over the last ten years – please listen! – increased by 23.6 percent. This has been achieved mainly by the workers, the managers, the employees, but also – you have to add that – by the host workers. Net wages in industry have increased by 61.3 percent over the last ten years, with no influence on this by the host workers, while consumer prices have increased by 30.5%. It was ten good years. Of course, there were collapses at the beginning of the 1990s, as economic growth has not developed so well, but now, of course, with mega-investment, such as the 30-billion schilling package for Vienna and many investments in the industry, it is being ensured that small and medium-sized enterprises receive subcontracts, the painters, the installers and all the other jobs. Of course, these are not as spectacular answers as they give the "Ambassadors of Fear", but with fear, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot and should not make policy. And I've already said this from this point of view: Not everything the ladies and gentlemen say about the "F" is wrong, but as it is done, it is wrong, namely, discriminatory, injuring and frightening. That's probably your concept for the 13th. October, and that's why we sit together in a special session today, because you don't have the matter in mind, but only the 13. October. That's why you really have to oppose the panic orchestra in F major and oppose it decisively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fear can and must not be a political ambassador. And I would also like to repeat this: With its anti-abuse laws, Minister Hums has achieved that it no longer pays off to prefer foreign workers to Austrians. For years, Minister of the Interior Lösnak – for which he was often beaten in the public – has pursued a policy of slowed immigration. It is not fearsome to say that Mr Lösnak has acted – and that must be said – but it has to be quiet and sensible. I do not want to give up on Mr Principal now, but this has made Mr Cap impressive. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Yes, he did this in an impressive way with the example of milkmaid calculation. But it must be said that people have always come from the economy and have meant: Let's raise the quota! That was actually a lot of people from your group. I've got a press release from 13th. February 1996, Mr Kiss: the agricultural labour market for Burgenland; Agriculture representatives are responsible for facilitated foreign employment. For a more flexible and cost-effective employment of foreigners in agriculture, the President of the French Chamber of Agriculture Franz Stefan Hautzinger spoke out on Tuesday in Eisenstadt. And so on, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this is a sensitive issue, but foreign employment is also a necessary input into the Austrian economy. And I am glad that you, Mr Kiss, said: We've picked up gas workers, and people have come. That is what Mr Novotny said. That's a good thing, because humanity is good for us – the liberals, on the other hand, are not. You said you congratulated us today. I have today looked at an analysis that is not a compliment for you and your strategy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Because you like to quote so much, I'll do it once. The "F" are going into five stages, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: First level: It's mockery and contempt. Respect for other people, who form a psychological shield against violent attacks, is destroyed by ridicule and contempt. Klestil is a hammerman of the left-wing Schickeria – say the "F" people or Haider – Cardinal King a politicalising pensioner. The protagonists of "SOS-Mitmansch" are night-swimmers of the left and promile-strengthened "Thinkers of the Nation". The government is sitting with empty heads in front of empty cash registers. Vrannitzky is an announcement giant and an action dwarf, an upper teacher and a blindman. Busek was a mental mistake at the head of a political funeral institute. - That's how you talk to us! The second stage, ladies and gentlemen, is the animal metaphors. It's getting more interesting. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Dobermann" have your Members said!]] The psychological shield is damaged with animal metaphors in which humans are compared with animals. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There you are. On a rough clot belongs a rough throat! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The political opponents become chain dogs, pigs, social assistance people, rat plague. The coalition parties will become red-black felt loops that have to be fought with blue acid. Then the slander comes back as a third step. Here people are called a politicoven, a repeater, a mafia, a protective money, a red-black monster of power, and so on. The fourth stage is the emergency defence strategy. That is, you represent yourself as a persecuted person, as people who are being hunted. And the last and fifth stage is the war. They address the systems as stormy, announce the general mobility, the defense struggle, the decision-making battle or the extermination campaign. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason you asked for a special meeting was only the 13th. October. They're not about the matter, but they're just about meddling, destroying, discriminating people. You're the Wurst thing, you're just about 13. October, that's why we're putting out political change, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7831	Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7852	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I cannot imagine that an urgent question is 'destruction', but these are the words we are used to by the SPÖ Members. Some words have already been used today, but there has always been an argument – Members of the stupid, noblemen and parliamentarian Kiss have said that –: We are always sitting in special sessions because of the same issues and because of the same problem and are constantly holding urgent questions on the same issues. Please, ladies and gentlemen, this is the admission to the fact that it is impossible in this House and that this government is unable to solve problems that have been going on for years, otherwise we would not have to discuss the same issues and the same problems here again and again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's really a witness to poverty. Mr Kiss even hides himself and says that two years ago this issue of foreigners' problems had already been discussed and today it is "cold coffee". [[Abg. Kiss: For six years!]] He probably lives in a cloud-cuckoo home, but certainly not in those communities where the foreigner's share is between 11 and 60 percent, certainly not in that small community in Upper Austria, where at a beautiful event the newly designed place has already been called "Türkenplatz". It's so slipped out of the conference, but You can imagine the situation of the population as a result of this problem. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say that we should be afraid and not be afraid, and, at the same time, he said that he did not want his children to go to a school where the proportion of foreigners is up to 70 percent. There is this problem, and the fear is right there. So if he says you should be afraid, then I can only take it so that you want to sell people for stupid, tell them the untruth and scatter sand into your eyes. How to scare people if you don't want to solve the problems if you promise anything for years, but don't keep it? To date, the problem of foreigners in Austria has not been solved! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a result of our popular desire in 1993, we were accused of not negotiating, but of just trying to start popular desire. This morning, our clubman has already said at a press conference that we liberals – I am telling you – are ready to negotiate. [[Call the SPÖ: Where is he now?]] – Mr Klubobmann has already spoken today. Did you miss that? We want to put foreign policy on a new basis with a motion for a resolution which I shall now read. This motion for a resolution by Members of Parliament, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Scheibner, Mr Madl and Mr Comrades, contains points which allow a decent foreign policy. [[Quoted print version removed]] Voices In two years' time, we will not be discussing the same problem here again, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7986	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8010	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That foreigners living in Austria, who have not been able to walk on the Austrian labour market in recent years, could be brought back to their home country, is certainly welcomed by the Austrians, especially if they are not called "Vranitzky" or "One". It is seen positively when a start-up capital is made available to them in the form of a federal grant that allows them to start in their home country. Of course, the money that could be made available to them has in their home country a multiple of the purchasing power it has in Austria and represents a corresponding aid. Many consumer goods up to luxury goods, although available in Austria, are not affordable for foreigners in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it would be desirable for unemployed foreigners to join their home countries to participate in the reconstruction of their homes. You know about the press conference of Federal Party Obmann Dr. Haider. I have talked to many citizens of different couleurs about this reintroduction: Many citizens of different couleurs welcome this reintroduction. You are in favour of this liberal proposal – in addition, your comrades, Mr Federal Minister! I can assure you that socialist officials too can gain something positive from this. For this repatriation proposed by us is not discriminatory or xenophobic, but it is quite positive for both sides. This solution has many advantages for Austria: For example, there would be a reduction in the number of unemployed, and you, Mr Minister, could sell and document a next success story, which you have contributed to improving the job situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it shows many years of experience that free proposals, which are quite positive and good, are in principle rejected by the government parties, especially by the SPÖ, are not even considered. I do not even address the ÖVP in this context, because, as we know from the experience of recent times, it may not have its own opinion on it and not express its opinion in this respect, even if it would in principle be different. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are polemizing in order not to have to deal with the problems we have presented and proposals for solutions, they practice unscrupulous criticism and believe, so to be able - or able to enslave - towards our citizens in the long run, Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You can assume, however, that the citizen of this country will certainly present your account to you. They always proceed according to the well-known knitting pattern by accusing us and making the claim that we are anti-human and operating a foreigner's heat. They say we're xenophobic, we're blackened, we're insecure. Our policy is humane, discriminatory and frightening. – This mesh, ladies and gentlemen, will no longer pull and will no longer pull! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have the impression that you do not actually talk to the citizens of our country anymore. If Mr Kiss says that nothing has changed substantially since 1990 or 1991, I must ask him whether he has a loss of reality and whether the problems that have arisen in connection with the foreign citizens in that country and those who are now drawn have passed without any trace. I would like to give you an example of your kind of integration and humanity, because these terms are always mentioned. Bosniers, Kurds and, more recently, Nigerians who have been convicted, who have committed criminal acts and for whom a deportation notice is available must not be postponed. Why can't they be pushed off? – Because this requires the separate approval of the Ministry of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if this reflects the sense of responsibility towards the Austrian citizens, and I naturally include in the term "citizens in Austria" all those foreign citizens who have worked here for years who have made a decisive contribution to the economic success we had in this country years ago. It is now practiced that the Ministry of the Interior does not give its approval in the case of deportation applications. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! It must be very disappointing for the foreign police if applications are repeatedly rejected and criminals who have been sentenced and are to be postponed will not be postponed because the Minister of the Interior does not give his consent to this. This is "humanity", which in particular the Austrians and the foreigners who have lived with us for a long time cannot understand! I know what I'm talking about: For there are up to 20 such requests to the Minister of the Interior from individual Upper Austrian communities, and these are not dealt with. And the ones in question became guilty Foreigners are still in Austria. – That’s their kind of humanity you’re talking about so often! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your sense of responsibility is reflected in this! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have been accused of xenophobia and say that we are incite hatred. – Nothing of all, Minister of the Interior One, is true! I would like to show you another example of your kind of humanity and the kindness of strangers. However, it is more socialist and, as I believe, to the detriment of the decent and diligent citizens of this country. Legally convicted people from Kosovo are moving in Austria with the feeling of security that they are not being postponed. Why aren't they being pushed off? – A Kosovo Albanian only needs to know that he is not allowed to have papers. Because if he doesn't have any papers, he can't be listed in his home country. Why? – All attempts to bring Kosovo Albanians who had no papers from Schwechat to Zagreb have failed, and those people were back in the mail. They move here in Austria franc and free, and nothing happens to them. Why doesn't anything happen to them? – Because, for example, papers are not issued by the Salzburg office. We keep criminal criminals in Austria, because in the original homeland of the criminal offenders, those people who have to decide whether or not papers are issued have no interest in their return. So you keep them with us. This is obviously also a sign of "humanity" as it is practiced here! They always accuse us of running the foreign election campaign. – In reality, it is you who, under the guise of humanity towards foreigners, are trying to improve your number of voters. Because in view of the dwindling number of voters you will also have to record in the future, you want to make foreigners early on into Austrian citizens in order to win voters. In this way, however, you will certainly not be able to carry out the corresponding compensation! Mr Puttinger has made clear arguments. He tried to make a comparison with the eastern block. He said that it could not be the State's task to allocate dwellings. – That’s not what we want, that’s not the problem! The problem is, in principle, that there has to be homes at all, namely homes for nationals and, of course, homes for those foreigners we are bringing to Austria. And if we don't have the corresponding apartments, we can't get foreigners to Austria. For the right to dwelling and work will certainly no one in this house dispute! One can of course take the view that accommodation in an asylum home also means "living". – I say: Near my home is such an asylum home. Of course you live there too. And, of course, it can also be seen as a job to be set up in front of the asylum home of Bänke and to sit there at six o'clock early there the so-called asylumers, who, in part, already live in this house for a very long time, and wait... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: These are Bosniers!]] These aren't Bosnians. Col. Doppelmüller! You should know, because this home is on its way to your work, if you sometimes use it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you're going from Vöcklabruck to Lenzing, you'd have to see a lot of "bosniers" with obviously very dark skin. - That can be. But I know that the Bosnians are housed in Vöcklabruck elsewhere. You know what I'm talking about: I'm talking about Pichlwang. That work carried out there looks like foreign workers – similar to those on the Reeperbahn – are being selected, invited to the car and taken away. For 30 s per hour, these people are allowed to work. Understanding Obviously, you are under integration! Everyone knows that there has been this problem for years, but it is not touched. That's your way of making politics! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: This is not true of my district at all! You say the untruth! That's totally wrong!]] This is not the untruth! However, if it is the untruth, you can speak and give the best of the experiences you have when you go to work. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You're passing by with your Porsche much too fast! You don't get anything!]] We've called host workers, people have come. – Dear ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! That's true, of course. But if you don't rule, that is, if you don't bring in anything new, don't adapt to change and are not even able to join as a "reacting team" in order to solve problems, at least do one thing: Collect all the problems of foreigners and solve them under one, though not under this One, but under another Minister of the Interior! It is essential that you act humanly, as it was called for. But do something efficient, and don't forget the Austrians in all humanity!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8109	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8138	Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Nowotny, stay there!]] He does not miss us, he can go quietly, he really has not contributed to the debate today! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the debate on our urgent needs, we had the quiet hope that the Federal Chancellor would represent the Minister of the Interior because the Minister of the Interior may be staying in Poland at all because he likes it so well because he can study the real socialism for which he struggles for a lifetime. – But this real socialism did not please him so well, otherwise he would have stayed there and the debate would have failed. However, it is here again, and we must therefore continue to debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is therefore essential that we deal with the question of how the EIA really holds on immigration policy. [[Abg. You do not know that there have been democratic elections in Poland!]] The Communists won again during the elections! I can already imagine that you like it there. Communists have undoubtedly returned to the row about democratic elections. That is why we already had the quiet hope that one of his friends would stay away from the Socialist International. But this is not the case, so we must continue to debate. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Because this one package stands and falls with one. Ladies and gentlemen! In this package issue, as in all other package issues, Parliamentary Khol plays a very sad role: Mr Khol will be ready tomorrow, the opposite of what he is now doing with Minister of the Interior It's one thing to represent. He will explain to the House that he has always felt that Austria is not a country of immigration, just as every speaker in the Austrian People's Party felt obliged to hold it, because the attitude of Klubobmann Khol is quite embarrassing. Now he is trying to get the Minister of Family A. D. into a lively conversation so that he just does not have to listen. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol said a few months ago: In a government in which Mr. One sits, the ÖVP has lost nothing. That is what Mr Kiss said on the same day. However, both are glad to hear here today at the speaker's desk that there is an excellent Khol-Einem paper bearing the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party. – Ladies and gentlemen! We are grateful for this clarification, which you also make voluntarily. Because it will be really interesting for voters in the Vienna election campaign to observe how the Austrian People's Party falls into series. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believed that Klubobmann Khol was physically unwell when he had to present this package at a press conference with the Minister for the Interior. If it had been coalition discipline that he had practiced there, then his attitude would have discredited me with a little bit of respect. But that was not the case. The Austrian People's Party is more trying to do this today than if it would have invented this package. In reality, High House, it has been pulled by Caspar One over the table! He started negotiations with 200 per cent of the demands and was able to cut off very well at 150 per cent. And all of this is contrary to what the Austrian People's Party used to represent in the school sector or what its district officials represented. Mr Höchtl, who is now about to fall asleep – Mr Commissioner, I can wake you up! –, was not always as inactive as one now accuses him. – It’s really unfair what happens to you. – He has written quite reasonable articles from time to time. I have an article from 1983. Mr President, I should like to thank Every now and then, you have also worked scientifically, although not at your institute. In this article, you have dealt with educational problems of social marginalities in the example of the host workers. He was published by Höchtl-Windhager in 1983, he was published in the Multiplex Media Verlag. There you can read – I quote –: "I have a number of agglomerations, so in some of Vienna's municipal districts, their share," – meaning foreigners – "is already up to 18 percent." Today's the dream quotas! At that time Höchtl warned about 18 percent! I quote: "This then leads to a percentage of 30 to 50 percent of foreign students per class in a few schools." That is exactly the percentage that was demanded in our popular desire, Mr Höchtl. They were ten years ahead of us at the time; You're really a smart man! Ten years later, however, the same Höchtl Josef must celebrate the one-khol immigration package, so that he can survive in this group, because his own clubman once again fell down on the loft and tied this package with the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Höchtl's article it goes on to say: "It is difficult to read out from these few so sobering figures alone that there are significant educational problems in addition to all the others." End of quote. Mr Höchtl! Who exchanged with you which diskette? What's going on now? What you wrote correctly in 1983 – or what the permanent disk exchanger Andreas Khol has now agreed on? Khol literally replaces his disks from one press conference to another! For example, he did at a press conference on 17 February. May, after this excellent double conference One-cool said: "The quotas will sink." And he said that again in the high house today. But now it becomes really close in the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The quota of voters of the ÖVP will also fall!]] They are permanently falling at the Austrian People's Party, and the survey rates are falling, but you must not confuse that! They will be hard to deal with this policy that the SPÖ operates by bringing in the foreigners and thus obtaining their mandates. That's going to be You do not succeed, Mr Khol. You will not be able to do this because so many Muslims will not be able to convert you to Christianity, Mr Khol! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] You cannot act so successfully that you will derive mandates from it. So the Social Democrats in Arabic script, with Arab arguments and Arab know-how, did very successfully. They organise their mandates in this way. Mr Sausgruber, whom I personally know as a sober artist of numbers – therefore he is a successful financial reference – has predicted to you that your quotas are wrong. To this end, his colleague, Khol, says: Sausgruber has no idea. – That's what will interest Sausgruber. He will probably read it in the newspaper next Sunday: Khol says Frank and free that Sausgruber has no idea. – Sausgruber says that the annual quotas must be increased from 10 500 to 20,000 in the family merger. This is a doubling, Mr Khol! Sausgruber expects that only Vorarlberg would have a reduction in the quota. – Nevertheless, Khol claims that Sausgruber has no idea, because he has chained a successful integration package with Caspar from One with which the multicultural society is to be realized. However, the fact that the Austrian People's Party remains on the track has not yet been realized by Mr Khol. Mr Khol! You should have noticed that the package is aimed at staying out. By the way, this term is not from me, but from the Ministry of the Interior itself. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the Ministry of the Interior there are papers in which it says that this package is nothing but a "residence". The Upper Austrian Government says nothing but that the move determines the quota. No longer the quota determines the move, but the family combination brand One/Khol determines the quota. Klubobmann Khol wants us to believe that everything is reversed and in best order. Khol says that, unfortunately, state governors Sausgruber and probably all Upper Austrians are wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who is the Upper Austrian head of state? - An ÖVPler!]] I know this relatively small man only as a man of the Austrian People's Party. In view of the conditions at the ÖVP, however, I am no longer quite sure where it really belongs. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: This man, who is said to belong to the Austrian People's Party, thus the same party as Klubobmann Khol, says: This paper is indisputable. He says: The quota is determined by the family combination and no longer the family combination by the quota. – This is in complete contrast to all that Klubobmann Khol has reported to us today and what is present in the internal ministry in the form of papers. There are considerable convoys, Mr Khol, in which the officials of the Ministry of the Interior express themselves. You know this Ministry of the Interior under this tour: The officials trust the opposition more than the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! These papers say that according to this Khol-Einem package or a one-khol package, the "residence disaster" will increase the number of asylum seekers illegally crossing the green border by a tenth. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It will increase by a whole tenfold. And then, Mr Khol – and Kiss has also said this – tells us that the Austrian People's Party has fought for the fact that not even worse has come, according to the motto: It could have gotten a lot worse: The multicultural society could not have broken out only in a year, but already in a week. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You must not celebrate this as a political success! You are in this coalition in one for Your electorate is an essential question, but also in a state-politically responsible question which is essential for Austria as a whole! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This will be calculated by all the citizens who are looking for a job today, for an apartment, or for kindergartens. Leave You're on it: The German Chancellor will be pleased that you also have the courage to claim copyright for that. For he has today – and we will have to highlight this even a little bit – with the clarification: All this is coming in autumn, that revelation that we wanted to hear. – The Federal Chancellor says here: It's coming in autumn. There will be a few more conversations with Mr Verzehnitsch – who has remained noble today – and also a few conversations with Mrs Hostasch – who has also been silent – and probably a few more discussions with some country politician, but then it has become a reality. It's coming in autumn. - That's what Vrannitzky said. And that means that this threat package is coming to the Austrian population in autumn! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't know how much it costs, but it's coming!]] You don't know that. But he doesn't care about that either. We are holding surveys in Parliament on the cost of legislation. The Federal Chancellor says: We do not make any calculations at all, which costs it. We don't want to know what it costs at all. 153,000 immigrations – carefully appreciated by Mr Sausgruber, who, according to Mr Khol, has no idea – will cost us a lot of money. But the Chancellor doesn't want to know about it! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian population, on the other hand, will also join forces in autumn, rely on it! You can now again discuss, lament and lattice larmoyant. We will also be able to give you a plebiscitary initiative in autumn. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will not be able to carry out with the Austrian population what you have planned and what the Federal Chancellor is apparently not willing to give up until today! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It won't be the way you imagine it! And that you even have multicultural dreams of certain groups of people from Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, in whom they are already in the terrorist, the Austrian People's Party has apparently not given way at all to today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] In view of the friendship of the international secretary Schramek with certain people within the PKK and the intensive connections and friendships of the PKK Patron in Austria, namely the Minister of the Interior, I have given up my efforts in this regard. But the ÖVP has always acted as if it were against this communist terrorist organisation from Turkey. Have you not yet heard from the ÖVP that this SPÖ is creating an asylum right, according to which it would be possible, for example, for the head of Europe of this PKK to seek asylum in Austria tomorrow? He could take the time to stay, even with the agreement of Mr Klobobmanns Khol! It only has to be legally concentrated in Austria. [[Abg. Arbitrator: He already has asylum in France!]] No, he has no asylum in France! I can tell you: There is a demand for extradition from the Federal Republic of Germany against Faysal Dunlayici, also called Kani Yilmarz. Isn't that familiar to you? He is the head of the PKK, a man sought for arson and for membership of a terrorist association. But he's in close contact with your party. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] Mr. Schieder! I can prove to you that the international secretary of the SPÖ has intensive contact with this man. He can have asylum with us from tomorrow, if your package, Mr. Khol, becomes reality! He can apply for asylum. Even the IRA terrorists will come to Austria, because in Austria we will then have an asylum right to be invited with the terrorists to come to Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You will not avoid discussing this issue with us many more times. And you will not miss out on the population of Vienna – until the 13th century. October, but also after that – and towards the entire Austrian population, if the threat of the German Chancellor is not reduced, ask the question of how the Austrian People's Party and the Social Democrats present themselves the solution to the problem of the discharge of the labour market and the housing market and the problem of our school situation. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With the idea of simply distributing foreigners to all of Vienna or all of Austria, you can't run immigration policy! It won't be possible! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Therefore, you should consider yourself carefully today, especially on the part of the ÖVP...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8330	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8345	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I don't understand your excitement. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Your time has expired!]] I still have speaking time, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8391	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8406	Thank you, Mr President. – We have today – and for this we thank the Federal Chancellor and the Austrian People’s Party – received a revelation from you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8437	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. There are four motions for resolutions to vote. We shall first vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades on promoting the reintegration of foreign citizens (reintegration foundation). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a corresponding sign. – This is the approval of the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades concerning association agreements with Turkey. In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Main and comrades on necessary corrections in the field of foreign employment. In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades on the conditions for a decent foreign policy. In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is also the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8527	I now announce that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in 236/A (E) to 239/A. Questions 808/J to 848/J were also raised. Finally, I announce that the next meeting of the National Council, which took place on Thursday, will be held on 27 May. In June 1996, 10 a.m. is expected to be convened in writing. I'm closing this meeting.
