ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7397	Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you all to the first meeting after the summer. I'm asking you to take a seat. I'll open the 37. Meeting of the National Council, which was duly invited. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 10. ==References====External links== 28 Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 17th. It was convened at its regular meeting in 1996/97. This resolution is the reason why today's sitting was scheduled. The official protocols of 34. Meeting of 9 and 10. ==References== Meeting and 36. The meeting was unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Eder, Marizzi, Dr. Ofner, Schöll, Dr. Preisinger, Dr. Lösnak, Aumayr, Dr. Haselsteiner, Dr. Brinek, Dr. Brader, Dr. Höchtl, Dkfm. Mühlbachler, Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Stippel, Ing. Tychtl and Dr. Povysil. It is a pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome in our midst the speaker of the British House of Commons, who is on an official visit to Austria. Welcome, Madam! [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7447	I declare that the Federal Chancellery has made a statement as follows on a resolution by the Federal President concerning the representation of government members: Minister of Justice Dr. Michalek will represent Dr. Caspar by the Minister of Interior. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7474	I declare the honourable Member's power. Stadler, within the meaning of Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, raised objections to the agenda of today's sitting. These objections concern the inclusion in today's agenda of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the 1995 vocational training report. If the President of the National Council does not accede to these objections, the National Council must decide. A debate can be held on this. Such a debate has been required. I will therefore hold this debate now and, in accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, set a speaking time of five minutes for a maximum of three speakers per group. Mr Scheibner has spoken. - Here you go. Speaking time: five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7504	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's session after the long summer break is somehow a premiere. It has also been noted in the media that it is the first meeting following the new Rules of Procedure, according to a Rules of Procedure decided by four political groups in this House against the votes of the liberals - also with the votes of two opposition parties, which is particularly remarkable and significant for block formation in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These Rules of Procedure take the opposition not only every design but also every control option. This applies particularly to urgent requests. The majority of this House, the majority of the government can go beyond any urgent request from the opposition and thus take the opposition of this important element of control. But the opposition – better said: Quasi opposition – of Greens and Liberals has already come up with how it works. I hear that the government parties have been asked not to make any urgent requests now, because they themselves would like to say one or the other. So you've seen what's going to happen to us in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We see it on the current agenda: We are no longer a working parliament, but we seem to have agendas only because it looks like we're working outside. We have a number of first readings here, we have two reports – otherwise nothing can be seen from the fact that it is being worked on here that there is a proposal that important problems which arise in this country can be discussed here in this House. That is why we are proposing to supplement the agenda, namely the 1995 vocational training report. – Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we currently dealing with this 1995 vocational training report? Since 7. This vocational training report has been discussed in the Committee for more than half a year, at least the first part, and this vocational training report gives a very interesting and informative summary of the situation of vocational training in Austria. In particular with regard to the situation of young people, and particularly with regard to the question of apprenticeship training, it would be important to discuss this report offensively today. I think that would be in the interest of all political groups. . I see Mr Koppler here, I also see representatives of other political groups, of whom I know that the question of apprenticeship training and vocational training of our young people is an important concern for them. Ladies and gentlemen! We have one more hour on this issue today, but it is also about the possibility of submitting applications, perhaps filed together, in order to make a step forward in the question of apprenticeship training and vocational training of our young people. Why is it so important that we discuss this today, ladies and gentlemen? . Recently, we have obtained statistics on youth unemployment. For the first time since 1988, youth unemployment has risen by 8.5 percent compared with the previous year. For the first time since 1988! And the figures on the development of apprentices also show how important it would be to discuss this question now. In July 1994, there were about 9,200 apprenticeships offered, compared with 7 000 job seekers. This meant overhanging more than 2,000 teaching places, Mr Khol. In July 1995 – and as this development was reversed within a year – there were 6 500 teaching places offered and 7,700 job seekers. Today, in July 1996, over 5,000 incoming apprentices are looking for a job – and find none. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be important to send a clear signal in this House today – in the first session after the summer break – and to give a first sign and discuss this report. Based on this, the relevant applications could also be made and the corresponding initiatives put in place.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7564	The next speaker is Dr. Kostelka. – Same time of speech: five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7585	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The apprenticeship training and the situation in the apprenticeship labour market is indeed an important, very important issue that we will have to address in this House – and we will do so too. Mr Scheibner! The moral indignation you've shown here is artificial, I don't take it from you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I do not accept this disillusionment and would like to read to you, as a reason, a passage from the Minutes of the Presidential Conference of Friday last week. [[Abg. Scheibner: I wasn't there, my colleague.]] . That is why Mr Stadler did not speak first, because he knew exactly what had been agreed. And the question of apprenticeship problems has not only become so urgent since Friday, but this problem has been known to us since the summer, even since the spring of this year. Ladies and gentlemen! It was in this context in the Presidential – and I may ask the Members of this House to pay attention to what has actually been agreed – as a result of a discussion on opposition proposals, proposals by Mr Stadler on the agenda for the next NR meetings on 2 and 3. In October the agreement was reached to put on the agenda this very report that you have now spoken about. And you, Mr Stadler, have taken note of this, you have accepted it. We have shared this view because we are all convinced that apprenticeship problems are so essential that they should be discussed and dealt with prominently on an agenda – not today, but at the end of a long plenary session. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] That is why this point will not be discussed today, but in 14 days. In addition, you have also taken advantage of the opportunity – for which we are very grateful – to take advantage of the current hour for a discussion on apprenticeship problems. We will therefore discuss this important question twice in this plenary week and also in the next plenary week – i.e. within 14 days. I think that is the right thing to do, and I think that is in line with the agreements in the presidency. Finally, let me say a word about what has been said here on the new Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please note: There are three opposition groups in this House – you are one of them – and this reform of the Rules of Procedure has found the majority of four parties to this House because it represents a significant improvement in job opportunities. These Rules of Procedure will ensure that we can achieve a genuine working parliament, a Parliament in which intensive legislative work is done – in a faster succession of arguments and in a faster sequence of issues. We will have more advisory days, we will have more opposition activities than ever before. However, I admit that we will have less night-time consulting hours, because they are an advantage for all of us and usually no longer find media consideration. We have more and more oppositional instruments and more public. It is all in all a Rules of Procedure that this House is truly well-suited to.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7649	Next, I shall give the floor to Mr President-in-Office. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7670	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to speak to my predecessor, Dr. Kostelka, only in one point right. [[Calls:Women Federal Minister]] Please apologize: Mrs Bundesminister, of course. I would just like to say to Mr Kostelka that apprenticeship training has become an extremely important question for this second Republic. Yesterday, the social scientist Kaufmann made it clear on television that the problem of not getting an apprenticeship is a very crucial one for the further development of young people. This is a more important and difficult question to assess in its social impact than the question of a teaching or the question of a temporary employment of an older worker. I therefore believe that the desire of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to deal with the report which has been before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs since March of this year is justified. I am also grateful to Mr Kostelka for mentioning at least to the public that it was important for our colleague Stadler in the presidential period that this issue should finally be dealt with and not postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerlein day. I already admit, Mr Kostelka, that one or another of the Presidents does not correspond to the wishes of the liberals, but that we have to accept the better of two bad possibilities. We do not have a majority in the presidency, but we are also bound by consensus there. However, I do not think that the Austrians will see the new Rules of Procedure as a way to a working parliament when a report on the years 1994 and 1995, which took place in March of this year – and I quote here the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of 7. March 1996 – it has been completed, not put on the agenda or put on the agenda late. Ladies and gentlemen! These many reports have cost the Austrian Parliament billions over the last 40 years. There is a question by Mrs Ederer concerning the cost of the reports, which everyone can read, a question from the time when she was still a group chairman in the Court of Auditors Committee. There is a massive tax waste policy here by spending tax resources on these reports, but the reports remain in the House, or because of a legislative vacuum by the early termination of the legislative period, or because they have been disastrous for the government parties, they do not come to the debate at all. The number of reports is Legion. I believe that this report on the situation of apprenticeship training, vocational training policy and continuing vocational training is more up-to-date than ever. Especially in these days, thousands of young Austrians, who have hoped for a job, should finally see that Parliament is not only discussing it at a current hour, but that this report is being completed, a report that includes future options and future prospects, analyses of the weaknesses in our training system and also very intelligent incentives for the future. I would like to point out that, of course, the report in the Committee has not been contradicted and has therefore been accepted by a majority of the majority, but the government parties have at least celebrated their report in the committee with the words I have just quoted. I therefore do not understand why we want to wait even longer to bring this report to an end. One should give young people a clear signal so that they can regain hope in this state not only to have to take on a job that is just free, but again, as in the past, to choose between eight or nine different teaching places and to choose the teaching place they imagine for their further life. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It should not be so that they simply have to use some teaching ground just because it is just free. I thought it justified to put this report on today's agenda. I call on the majority in this House to agree to our request to supplement the agenda. In fact, I cannot agree with Mr Kostelka in any way: it is a matter of weighting whether an item on the agenda is being dealt with first, fifth, seventh or ninth in the plenary session and then, in the same way, whether it is prominent or not. If that were the case, as Mr Kostelka said, family policy in this House would be the last thing to do. I cannot remember that family policy would have been item 1 here in Parliament once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It may be decoubling if the clubman of the SPÖ here explains the value of things from the point of view of his group. I hope that the agenda will be completed today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7719	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7740	Mr President. Madam Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! The opportunities of our youth are our every concern. The apprenticeship problem is a very important problem. We know that not all who seek work are teachers in safe hands of teachers and teachers. It is our whole effort to ensure the chances of our youth also in teaching. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion of a report in this House does not create a single teaching centre, because the teaching institutions create the economy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And that you are not serious in this matter, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is demonstrated by the fact that you want to put to the debate a report which has not even been completed. In other words, the crucial part presented by the Minister for Education has not even been in the Committee. Once again, it's about window-dressing, show policy, and that's what we're rejecting. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is important for us today to have a principle debate on our way into the European Union. To this end, we want statements by the chancellor and vice chancellor. To this end, we will have a debate on an important subject. The second important issue I would like to stress is the protection of our children from abuse, from sexual violence. This has priority for us, so we are discussing these and not other things, as you would like from the one opposition party. We set the priorities, ladies and gentlemen, in the presidential conference. And what you said to the Rules of Procedure: I understand that it hurts to you that once again four political groups have taken a democratic course that you are calling into question. As the new Rules of Procedure have proved successful, ladies and gentlemen, we shall see: The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7793	The next item is Mrs Dr Schmidt's speech. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7814	Mr President. I am glad that Madam Speaker does not continue to hear what instruments are being used here. Interestingly, the extent of dishonesty can still be increased. It is really unbearable to me in what form these Rules of Procedure are being used and abused by a group in this House. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The master of indignation is at the word!]] I don't know what people here are talking about. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Scheibner! They set themselves down here and are apparently unable to recognize that this is an objection debate. That is to say, we are talking about objections to an agenda. You should know that agendas are agreed in the Presidency. When Mr Kostelka spoke about what had been agreed in the Presidency, her interlocutory call came: "I wasn't there!" If you don't know, don't make yourself there, send Mr. Stadler! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Because then you would have to know what actually happened in the Presidential. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The woman teacher was already known as a fine teacher when she was still in FPÖ!]] It is true that the Liberals wanted to have the item on the agenda that is now being held. The Liberals also wanted another item on the agenda. However, we then understood the need to discuss the reports of the Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor today, and then we talked about the speaking time. Mr Stadler then said: eight hours of block speaking time, "Vienna hours", and he does not go below it. But after finding a clear majority in the Presidential, that this was apparently only a provocation and that at seven hours the outcome can be found, he leaned back and said: "Then there will be an objection debate." [[Violent calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Then go home if this is unpleasant!]] I know you're not used to listening, because you're obviously going to deliver things to everyone on the table. Maybe you can listen once! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] After pointing out that there is no debate on time limits, Stadler said: Then there will be no objections to the agenda. - That's how it happened. This is just to clarify the "reality", the "responsibility" of the concern now expressed. And to play with such a thing is to destroy Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7905	The next speaker is Mr Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e7927	Mr President. High house! The "Grand Master of the Empathetic Crafts" has given it to us once again today! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mr. Scheibner, she said, be careful! Now I will tell you what it is about in this Republic! Parliament is once again under threat, says the Grand Master of Embarrassment Crafts. My dear colleague Schmidt! They are currently waging together with the Greens at the coalition parties that they do not undermine their opposition rights. Ladies and gentlemen! This can be seen from the minutes of the Presidency. Her club director is concerned about the fact that the government parties declare that she does not make use of her business-orientated possibilities, which she has decided to take part in herself, so that she may also appear as an opposition. This can no doubt be seen from the protocols. The fact is that it's in the presidential – and that's all right, Mrs. Teacher, now the student tells you something, remember that, Mrs. Teacher! – I will not agree to an agenda, if there is no agreement to the time-limit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For us as an opposition – and I emphasize: as the only real opposition – the agenda – and I have taught you in the presidential – is inseparably linked with speaking time, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They do not yet believe that this vocational training report is urgent. You should have heard the President of Vienna City School Council yesterday evening, who said that youth unemployment is already so dramatic that he is now opposed to the law and the instructions of the Federal Minister – against the law! - in vocational schools, unemployed young people have to be admitted, only so that they are not on the streets and that drug dealers are accused of having to eat. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the situation looks in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the "Dame of Embarrassment Crafts" comes and explains to the school class what it has to do, how dramatic the situation is and how the Parliament once again is before the collapse, because the FPÖ uses its business-regulatory possibility of an objection debate. But we have failed again to ask the teacher whether or not we can do that in the Rules of Procedure. It has not been able to do so with the government group because, as we already know, it has to ask, at every opportunity, whether there can be the opposition in this House at all, ladies and gentlemen. That is how the new Rules of Procedure look! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There have already been doubts among the people about whether this Parliament is at all a working parliament. Today, there are doubts as to whether this Parliament is at all still a control Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, if this is to be the opposition that controls the government! With your consent, you have caused the opposition to be given to a marginal group with this new business order in this House as regards the control function in democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] Mrs Schmidt, you should see in it a threat to Parliament – but not in a debate on the Rules of Procedure on the objections of the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And if you, especially the colleague of the Greens, still have a spark, a rest on... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Why don't you talk about it, Mr. Stadler? Talk about it!]] [[Many other calls.]] Ms. Schmidt has the best apprentice in her own ranks. We are so glad that she has taken him with us, because we would not have been able to bear such a good model student of Mrs Schmidt in our group. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Oellinger! If you still want to believe rudimentarily in the role of parliamentary democracy and uphold the right to control of the opposition, you will not be following Mrs Schmidt in the future, but you will do what you would be ordered to do as an opposition party: to fight for the rights of the opposition too!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8043	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Then it is expected that the vote will be taken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8064	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, as you obviously do not seem to be bothering, because you like to titulate yourself with these terms – for example, as "Dobermann" – I must say to you: It bothers me if you use terms from the animal language to characterise other people here in this house. [[Congratulation with the greens as well as with the SPÖ.]] The "welling" you are advocating to Mrs Schmidt, Member of the Stadler Parliament, is a term from the animal language, even if you claim it for me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're waving with me!]] You should consider, Mr Stadler, who and whether you are casually apostrophizing someone here in this House as an animal. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: There are also people who are waving!]] I do not really think it appropriate for the political style! [[Congratulation with the greens as well as with the SPÖ.]] On the actual question, Mr Stadler: I also expressly stated in the presidency in which I was represented: It is today the first meeting with a new Rules of Procedure. Whether or not we can exercise the rights of the opposition under these new Rules of Procedure, and how we can do with this new Rules of Procedure, I do not know that yet. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You voted in favour!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you have any doubts, Mr. Oillinger?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: So you doubt!]] I voted in favour. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is no guarantee!]] But of course it is possible that, after a certain period of application of the new Rules of Procedure, we will have negative experiences here, and I hope that it will then be possible, together with your votes, to improve these Rules of Procedure. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Now? It has not yet been applied, and now you have to improve it!]] We do not know yet, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Haigermoser, you do not listen! I said: We must first have our experience with this Rules of Procedure. I hope and assume that it will be good experience, but it should be necessary to reform these Rules of Procedure – and we have reformed them several times – then, I think, it will be possible to talk about them. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is like work contracts!]] But we cannot start this first day with clear intentions – and that was the debate in the President – that we were without a lot – from the originally agreed six hours, anyway, a compromise with seven hours of speaking time was extended to eight, nine or ten hours. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Over the table you let yourself be pulled!]] And one thing has already been said: There was no debate on the vocational training report today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sure!]] We have – with the voices of the liberals! . agreed that the vocational training report should be on the agenda. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are not informed again! Your club director doesn't bring you to the front man!]] You agreed, Mr Stadler. They felt that it was right and important to reach consensus on this issue, and that consensus could be reached. The vocational training report is on the agenda, but not today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your club director is sorry!]] I'd like to say: In recent months, Mr Stadler, you have not noticed that you have requested the vocational training report in the Presidential or somewhere else. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You were never in the presidential!]] The vocational training report has been completed in the first part for half a year; what is missing is the second part. You would have had the opportunity to request this vocational training report several times, and you should not be so hypocritical as to state here and now that it is now the change and the end that we are discussing it today. We need to discuss apprenticeship training, we need to discuss the question of apprentices, but it is doubtful whether this should be the case today at 23 o'clock or whether it is not better to discuss the question of apprenticeship training in a good place at the next meeting of the National Council. [[Abg. Vienna: Ask the apprentices!]] This is also before the elections, Mr Haider. You can probably withdraw the political small money you want to draw from it, if you succeed. It's still before the elections. We have the opportunity to discuss this, but it has not been agreed or demanded by you that this report be put on the agenda here and today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8322	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes this debate. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the amendments, i.e. those who vote in favour of taking the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the 1995 report on vocational training, III-11 of the Supplements, on the agenda for today's sitting, in order to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. It remains with the agenda for today's meeting of the National Council. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8357	We'll be here at the current hour. The subject is: "The apprentice, the stepchild of the socialist-dominated coalition government"
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8378	First of all, Mr Haigermoser has spoken. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8400	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals have come to believe that the situation of apprentices must be brought about by offensive treatment and appropriate parliamentary treatment. In the interests of the apprentices, therefore, this debate and also this current hour was demanded of us today. And why? – Because, as can be seen from the title of this current hour, the socialist coalition government has only created new burdens, ladies and gentlemen, on the development of apprenticeship training and the preservation and creation of training places. To date, they have not thought of anything more than the economy to tax the training companies new and stronger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One lip confession after another could be heard in the past or one had to let go about it, with the result that the red and black Sunday speakers managed to do it for the first time – we will always point out it: for the first time! – introduce an apprenticeship tax of 3 per cent of the apprentice compensation, ladies and gentlemen. This means, therefore, that you have introduced an apprenticeship tax against your lip confessions and have thus achieved that fewer and fewer apprentices are being trained. – Granted, this is not the only reason, but one of the most important reasons. We have already held a very emotional debate on a report today, and we have heard from some Quasi opposition parties that this report is not yet finished, and that is still to be done, and it is only then that we can enter into the discussions. In this context, it is quite interesting to beckon a bit in the past in the archive. There is a report on the "Vocational Training in Austria" from 1993, since there was on 24 February 1993. A parliamentary survey on the "future of apprenticeship training" was held in February 1993 in the report on the educational part of vocational training in Austria 1993. In that respect, it is of no use to the Federal Minister if these reports are referred to as old, if, on the other hand, these 1993 reports contain information that should have been implemented for a long time. All this, ladies and gentlemen, you have not done! They were not willing to look for a strategy that would help improve apprenticeship training, streamline and create new jobs. But now you want to cover this by saying that there is already a 1995 report; although it had already come to the house in March, it has not yet been completed. – Yes, where was the Federal Minister in the meantime to enrich and complete this report? – Obviously at diving station! It is not only on the government bank, but it is also politically recessless, ladies and gentlemen. That's the facts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If, in the 1993 reports quoted, the number of apprentices in trade is negative to 42.3 per cent, minus 29.9 per cent in industry and minus 28.2 per cent in trade and crafts, then the alarm bells should have shriveled. But you have done nothing! You didn't see anything about this and you didn't hear anything, but you talked a lot on Sunday's speeches, ladies and gentlemen. This was your "work" – under quotation marks – on the subject of teaching. The fact is that the increasing economic difficulties in our country also result in fewer apprentices being trained. But not only that: The attack of this socialist coalition against the small and medium-sized economy has also helped to reduce the number of apprenticeships available! Ladies and gentlemen, you are on the road with a raid against these small and medium-sized enterprises, the taxes are going up, and the bureaucracy is getting more and more from day to day – see the so-called Workers' Protection Act, which President Maderthaner and Mr Stumm fully agreed with pleasures here. However, this does not prevent Maderthaner from acting against the muscles a few months later and saying: This bureaucracy must get away once! So those who make this socialist coalition here the robbers swallow for breakfast cream and pretend to be able to seduce the Austrian economy with these anointing tones, ladies and gentlemen. Not with our consent! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not with free consent, ladies and gentlemen, because the proposals are on the table. It's nothing new, you don't have to invent anything new! We liberals have shown more than ever the open wounds. We liberals confess to the dual system of training, because, with the help of this system, it has been possible to have half the control of youth unemployment. [[Abg. Böhacker: Again!]] But the present times – see quotations, see statements by the school politicians – show that this instrument needs to be strengthened, with appropriate budgetary measures and corresponding fiscal solutions for the extortioned businesses, ladies and gentlemen. I say clearly to you: State apprenticeships are not an answer to the problems in the apprenticeship training sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are on the side of businesses and apprentices, but obviously the ÖVP has also fallen by once again. Now, once again, the muscles are streamlined under the sacco by saying: A fund does not come into question for us! . We liberals also believe that a fund means more bureaucracy and does not create a single job, but you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dummvoll, have fixed these teaching workshops in the text and agreed to the government negotiations by deciding: It is agreed that the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Economic Affairs shall be made up of 75: 25 teaching workshops can also be promoted. What is the government's answer? – Farnleitner flees abroad, Hums says: This is nothing to me! and then the poor Minister of the Federal Government, Mr Gehrer, is placed on the poor banker of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, without implementing what has been promised before this agreement, namely to relieve the economy. Maderthaner is that perfect meat. He repeatedly explains how to achieve improvements in this respect, but when it comes to implementing it, Maderthaner falls around more every day than ever, ladies and gentlemen. I should now like to make a few suggestions on how we liberals present ourselves with offensive apprenticeship training, a reform in those areas where reform approaches are necessary. We call for easier professional change within the sector by redesigning the curriculum and training objectives; improved access to the second course of education; Equal opportunities through the approximation of training standards; social upgrading of apprentices and workers through equality of dual vocational training in relation to schooling. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the social field: There are plenty of ways to be done in budgetary terms to improve the situation of apprentices vis-à-vis students. These measures – in addition to many others – could be the quickest way to launch a reform boost. The diversity of talent can be used, Mrs. Federal Minister. In the sixth to eighth school level, compulsory professional skills, vocational orientation, professional and teaching qualifications tests would be offered in an increased form, a work test should take place for the duration of two to three months. – All of this was proposed, but not implemented, ladies and gentlemen. It is a question of modernising the training plans for a reform of vocational education and training, and it has not been done with the fact that the youth spokesperson of the Socialists, Mrs Bures, in the meantime, called for a year and a half ago, that the vocational training system must now be examined from the then Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel to Mr Hums. This is not a solution, but just a ping-pong game, as this socialist coalition government – to the Gaudium, I almost want to say; no, tragic it is – presented to the public. We'll tell you: There should be no funds, there should be no funds, because this fund will only give birth to bureaucrats, ladies and gentlemen, and will not promote a single apprenticeship. But, unfortunately, God has approved the nagging EIA in the government agreement, and we have found it here and today again on fresh action. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am sorry – once again – that the successor of the Pepi Höchtl – who, of course, in many areas has nothing to do with what has happened, but who does not show any willingness to act – must listen to this day on the government bank. I hope, however, that you will support this message, which we are sending to all of you today, in the heart of the businesses, through legislative fiscal measures, coming to a conclusion, which will enable them to provide apprenticeships on the part of the economy. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] In any case, the economy and apprentices have the liberals on their side.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8482	Mrs Bundesminister spoke within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8504	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Apprenticeship training is a very important concern for all those who work in politics. There has been dual training in Austria together with the vocational school since 1945, and this dual training is also very popular in Europe. At each conference of the European Union, it is stressed that this Austrian dual training is a particularly good vocational training and that, in the rest of Europe, it has been tried to introduce this training for young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that we should discuss this question in a constructive way and support this dual training. Of course, there has been a shift in recent years. Ten years ago, about 48 percent of a year of age have taught, today it is about 43 percent. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have included to a large extent other young people in our school system. We have 10,000 students more in our vocational and secondary schools. So we deal with young people very responsibly. Of course, it is a great concern to promote teaching, and that is why the government has already convened a working group in the past year, which has set out very clear measures. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The apprentice tax introduced!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The 3 percent apprentice tax!]] These measures have already made demands for a resolution in the National Council on apprenticeship promotion. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Well, stupid! What is it now, stupid?]] The transformation of the polytechnic course with enhanced professional orientation is provided for in the law. There is a service recognition with the help of apprenticeship scholarships by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We have enabled the more flexible vocational schooling. There is already a template to implement the group teaching professions. This autumn, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of professional maturity will be carried out on a ongoing basis, and this is a ongoing process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to stress that today, with the amendment of the contract, a discharge will also be decided on for apprentice entrepreneurs. It is decided that the additional amounts paid by the contracting entities to health insurance above the maximum basis for the payment of health insurance contributions for apprentices in the establishments will be used. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a first major and important step towards relieving businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: With the left one gives, with the right one takes! That's incredible!]] Now to the proposal so highly praised by some in this House in Vienna that young people who do not have a teaching place should go to vocational school: Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have not considered what this means in the last episode: This means that the youth goes to school for a day or perhaps a day and a half, learning something for which he may not get a place at all. I wonder, What is the meaning of what is the responsibility for young people to provide them with targeted vocational training? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We work with the labour market service. The labour market service has 600 million schilling available for courses and training in order to facilitate young people's entry into work, to improve them, especially for those young people who do not find a place to learn. We are quite prepared to have these entry-level courses carried out by the AMS in our vocational schools using resources – but everything else is the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the government is very responsible for dealing with young people's opportunities. This action programme, which has already been discussed in spring and is now being implemented rapidly, will bring relief. [[Abg. Böhacker: When will it be implemented?]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Not!]] This action programme will also take place until autumn. With regard to the figures I raised yesterday and today, I would also like to say the following: In Upper Austria and in Salzburg there are only a small number of start-ups, in Styria, in Tyrol and in Vorarlberg the figures remain constant, in Vienna, in Burgenland and in Carinthia there are currently about 5 to 8 percent fewer start-ups, but I would like to state quite clearly that a final assessment of the situation can only be made in the late autumn when all measures take place. Apprentices can still be admitted until December and then also from December to the first year of the vocational school. A further meeting of the working team on apprentices is already taking place next week. Further implementation of the measures will be discussed between the social partners and the ministries concerned. The government will take very close care of the effects of these measures, and it will then propose further initiative programmes. We will further improve these measures. My concern as a responsible politician is not to undermine and break up dual training through short-term rapid shots, but to open up long-term educational perspectives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore call on all those who really love the vocational training of our youth to work with us for a positive development of apprenticeship training in a constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8659	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. – Speech times are uniformly five minutes. First word message: Mr Dolinschek. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8686	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned that since 1945, in Austria, apprenticeships have been trained as part of dual vocational training, on the one hand, vocational training and on the other hand practical training in the enterprises, and this has been exemplary for the whole of Europe. All of us are aware that this dual vocational training system is mainly limited to Austria and Germany. It is undisputed – I am right in giving you – that it is a favourable initial training system, Mrs Federal Minister, but nevertheless we all know – and you know it very well – that there are slowly, but surely, signs of abuse. The most recent statistics show the disastrous development in the field of teaching for years. They have mentioned themselves that the number of apprentices has fallen dramatically from 48 percent to just over 40 percent – 42 percent, I think, is quite accurate – but the number of open apprenticeships has also fallen dramatically. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: 43 percent!]] But also youth unemployment, which, admittedly, is not yet very high in Austria, is also on the rise, and training in a teaching has become increasingly less attractive for apprentices and businesses, despite long-standing promises, in order not to say, uninteresting. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Federal Government, the social partners, and so on, tried to lift the image of the apprentice, but it did not produce anything. All these poster actions such as "Careers with Teaching" have passed through the sand. They didn't work. The number of apprenticeships continues to decline. It is interesting, Mrs Federal Minister, that for the first time 5,000 young people are waiting for a job, for a apprenticeship, while in the past there were still much more open apprenticeships and fewer apprentices. This development is worrying, because if this trend continues, we will have a youth unemployment in a few years, which, although it is slowly rising, will certainly approach the EU average by 20.3 percent. Today it is only 5.4 percent, but this development is very dangerous. And how does it come about? – Because today the apprentice simply has a social image, which is in the basement, so to speak, because the Federal Government is taking wrong measures. If you say, in the polytechnic, you want to change something, I have to tell you: Do this very, very quickly, because this polytechnic course, as it is currently being practiced, is simply a great nonsense! We must come to a basic vocational training year – and away from the polytechnic industry. On the other hand, Mrs Bundesminister, you have introduced the municipal tax with your group, that municipal tax which is particularly taxing apprentices in teaching establishments. We, Mrs Bundesminister, want training to be promoted in private firms or in private apprenticeships, urged that apprenticeship training should also be excluded from the calculation of the municipal tax and from the supplement of the service provider's contribution to the tax, that an additional 30 percent of the apprenticeship fee be deducted from the tax as a training allowance, that early information should be given to attracting the dual vocational training system for young people, that the general promotion of apprenticeship training should also be preferred abroad, and that an Federal-funded benefit grant for apprentices for above-average benefits should be paid up to that level of the costs, as compared to AHS students, and that a legal provision should be made for the minimum annual increase in the remuneration of apprentices to the extent of the other collective contract wage increase in the respective sector. Ladies and gentlemen! This means a minimum compensation for apprentices, which we demand massively, because employers' representatives – above all the Federal Chamber of Commerce, Mr Madethaner – even demanded a few months ago to freeze the compensation for apprentices, whereas we express ourselves in a massive way, which is not so unrealistic when considering statements from the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, in which even considerations were made about a zero-son round. That is why it is not so unrealistic that it is coming soon. The youth, Mrs Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, will not do you good if you take these measures. Consider our proposals in the service of young people, apprentices and in the interest of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8727	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8748	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This issue is too serious, so you should not bluff. We could go to the Heurigen in the evening. But with you, my colleague, I'm not going to the Heurigen. Ladies and gentlemen! I would have been surprised if the liberals had not continued their populist style after the summer break. The theme of this current hour takes you to the occasion to pursue party politics and populism on the back of the apprentices. That is certainly against me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will not succeed in persuading us that you and the apprentices are serious! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Apprentices have been finding support in the SPÖ vehement for decades – with some exceptions – and the apprentices know this too. However, the implementation of proposals has been prevented in many cases. As a trade union and social democratic representative, a solid, professionally sound training for young people is a special concern to me, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Given the rapid technological development of new production processes, the importance of continuing vocational training is increasing enormously. The basis for higher-qualified continuing training is solid general education and initial vocational training. We were often boycotted when we worked to improve the training situation for young people in vocational schools, and this continues. Especially from economic operators, we repeatedly heard arguments why apprentices cannot afford the same opportunities as students at secondary schools and students at universities. It is also often referred to the training of training. I have heard such signals in today's debate by Mr Peter. Special provisions for the protection of apprentices, increasing costs for training firms, unnecessary absences in the establishments and many other most of the unfavorable arguments have been heard in this context. Let us remember the discussions when we also called for an education in English for apprentices at vocational schools or the possibility of free travel for apprentices. In this respect, our group took the initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember the last plenary day in the National Council before the summer break. The motion for a resolution originally tabled by me and ÖGB President was supplemented by proposals from the other political groups and decided by a majority. This request has not been accepted by you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, and this, ladies and gentlemen, although your intentions have been fully incorporated into this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a very serious issue. In conclusion: Let us once again try to cope with this very difficult situation. It is, as I mean, about our most important capital, namely our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8815	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8836	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Vocational training has a high social standing in Austria. About 80 percent of young people enter a further vocational training system after completing compulsory schooling. The motivation for more qualification increased. The number of compulsory school graduates has also fallen sharply in recent years. In 1981 it was 41 percent, and in 1992 26 percent. The reason is certainly in the special nature of the Austrian education system: on the one hand, in the distinction in full-school and dual training branches and on the other hand in the involvement of the economy. On the verge, it should be noted that Federal Minister Hums has also decided against an opening of the vocational school for apprentices without a teaching contract, counter-carriaged by national school council president Dr. Scholz. Perhaps this group can agree on this relationship. I call for the strengthening of the motivation of the trainees and the improvement of the advisory system. It is also necessary to ensure, promote and optimise education. The possibilities would arise in distance learning or through electronically supported teaching technologies. In the Coalition Convention, the Federal Government formulated clear objectives: Through meaningful cooperation and networking between vocational schools and polytechnic courses, their acceptance should be increased. Especially for graduates of the dual training courses of specialist schools, the permeability to further education is to be ensured. Economic structural change requires more than ever apprenticeship training. In most European countries, youth unemployment has long been a problem. In Austria it is relatively low at 5.4 percent compared to the EU average of 20.8. In our neighbouring country Germany, youth unemployment is 8.7 percent, Spain leads 40.8. So if you look at the international landscape, we have no problem. We continue to see in Austria the main employment opportunities for young people in the qualification of training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that there are problems, of course I would like to speak of them just as much. Problem one is the incentive system for apprenticeship providers. That must be taken into consideration. Often it's only details that inhibit. In this case too, we need flexibility in working hours. Young people want to be able to bring in "window days" through overtime. They do not consider it necessary to have to be taken extra over long distances when they are on assembly. The Youth Employment Act also says that vocational schooling and driving time are fully included in the 40-hour week. In my district, teaching opportunities have been reduced, especially for this reason, two years ago. But now they have risen significantly again, because the school in the Metallwerk Plansee has "opened", i.e., offered schools for other companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The farms wish to have a retention period of three months instead of the current two months. You should also think about that. The less educated, the greater the risk of unemployment. It is therefore important to limit youth unemployment and to highlight the problem of teaching places from all sides. Even though 5,000 young people were seeking an apprenticeship, they were unable to find a job. Here again, the flexibility of working hours and the reduction of red tape should be encouraged. I would like to stress once again: The dual training system must by no means fall! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The summary of apprenticeships in a training rail extends the possibility for graduates to be able to take up more easily in later working life. Just as the family compensation fund is intended to ensure a redistribution of the childless to those subject to maintenance, so is the teaching area. A significant improvement has been achieved with regard to the financing of health insurance contributions in the event of apprenticeship compensation. In future, firms that train apprentices pay less health insurance for their apprentices in the first year of education. So there is to be a burden compensation. The youth has recognised the opportunity in Europe, therefore a " Leonardo programme" also for the apprentices. 20 000 participants are present.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8915	Please ask for the final sentence, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8931	So we have a proven training system, understanding and motivation to acquire the knowledge of additional qualifications. We only need more flexibility and mobility, then our apprentices are by no means stepchildren.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8961	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e8991	I'm glad you can see colors. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The facts that led to this dramatic situation on the teaching centre market have already been clearly and clearly explained by my previous speakers. For years this trend has been clearly recognizable. Unfortunately, there have been no real reform approaches so far, making a truly sensible system a successful system. The reasons for the economy have also been on the table for years. Please do not forget: Since 1990, more than 6 000 firms have completed the training of apprentices. It is the talk of a more rigid vocational training and youth employment law, overly high apprenticeship costs, and last but not least, is also mentioned by the establishments of lack of suitable candidates. My colleague, Helmut Peter, will deal with this subject even more closely. On the other hand, it is very gratifying that there is a growing educational demand for young people. The teaching in the current form is not attractive enough for young people, it still has a dead end, the permeability to tertiary education is not guaranteed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] An increase in the quality of education is no longer possible in this rigid organisation, because the economy simply cannot be expected to agree to a school expansion. The cost-benefit relationship is not correct. Farms must be able to work economically at least at this time. And it is precisely this connection between operational training costs and the school education requirement of our young people, which constitutes a Gordic node, which, according to our ideas, is definitely broken down. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why we call for liberals to decouple social law and also to decouple schooling and working time. This means that during their visit to the vocational school, apprentices are completely equal to other students. That is, they are to be insured, but that is, they do not receive any apprentice compensation at that time. This decoupling is essential to ensuring that necessary flexibilisation in the dual system can be ensured in the event of a reduction in costs. We imagine that, under this condition of decoupling, the proportion of vocational education and training for all apprentices will be increased to at least three months. Of course, individual extensions up to six months – depending on the entrance requirements of the apprentices – are quite possible. This would result in a rapid increase in the number of apprenticeships as a result of the higher schooling share in the entire teaching period. In addition to standard teaching, we would allow our young people higher education qualifications. This means greater opportunities for young people and also more skilled professionals for the economy. Of course, we must also develop vocational school into really autonomous vocational training centres. Vocational schools must provide additional training in all areas: Computer science, foreign languages, cultural techniques, key qualifications, of course also in the field of technical theory. We need to get away from this rigid system of timetables in vocational schools, we need to prepare this training in module form, because only individual educational careers between apprentices and teachers can be planned. In particular, we must open vocational schools to all the volunteers. It is intended to enable the re-enactment of educational diplomas. The term "life-long learning" must not only be a keyword, but must also be translated into reality. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Such a new system can be financed. We can rework funds. I am thinking only of the high cost of a student at a higher school, about 70,000 s a year. There is a break-off rate of around 40 percent. There are irrational repetitious rates in all schools that cost billions. I do not want to talk about the social and social consequences of youth unemployment. If the Austrian youth, if the Austrian economy really cannot afford something, it is the reform inability of those responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9062	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9083	Mr President. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard a lot about the possible causes of the abuses in the apprenticeship sector today. I wonder, Are these the real reasons? Are really the costs for the apprentices too high? Is it really the level of protection among apprentices that causes why so little training is being done? Is it really the long training period that apprentices have to spend in school, the reason why so few apprentices are being trained, or do the causes not lie much more and more in an economic system, which is becoming increasingly short-breathed, geared towards rapid profit? Are not the causes also in an economic policy that tries to follow them? Are not the causes also in an educational policy, which is no longer innovative, which ends up in a dead end for the apprentices? I would remind you that at the beginning of July a longer report on apprenticeship training was to be read in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten'. There was a specialist from ABB, the head of staff, who said on the subject of apprenticeship training: ABB had an apprenticeship of 100 at the end of the 1980s. Three years ago, the workshop was closed in this large company in Austria. Then he was asked for the reasons. The head of staff said that the question had been considered in the short term by the business community and that it did not raise long-term national economic considerations. Where does this short-term thinking lead, ladies and gentlemen, illustrate another article in the "New Zurich Newspaper". It is entitled "Qualification Becomes Lack of Goods in the United States" that small and medium-sized enterprises are alarming because the education system, including the system of vocational education in America, is completely failing because the people who come to the enterprises can no longer even English – that in America! – can no longer have mathematics, no longer have the most basic qualifications. When I hear this and read it, I remember that there has been a dispute in Austria about it, whether we need English or German in vocational schools, whether this is not something that can best be forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen! What we need for vocational education in Austria is the common responsibility, the shared responsibility of state and enterprise – and a little less ideology in this area too. We need the joint responsibility of the state and companies that have to share the costs of training, and a clear account must be taken of this. State and companies also have to take over vocational training. There is already the question: Does this training take place in the State, in the public sector, in the countries and in the municipalities to a sufficient extent? I would say that is not the case. There are, of course, enough opportunities in the field of public services to train apprentices. Why can't there be the social security buyer? Why can't there be a computer teacher in the public sector, in the services of the public sector? Why not the worker who learns the craft from the pike? Why not media and marketing people also in the public service? These are all questions that need to be discussed openly and seriously. Of course, it is necessary that both, i.e. the state – that is, the public sector – and companies share these costs, so that there is a burden compensation. In my view, it cannot be said that, when we talk about the burden compensation, we are only talking about the burden compensation in the field of the private sector. No, even the public hand, which does not train, is to be involved in this burden compensation. In my opinion, it would also be useful to consider whether the award of public contracts – currently a federal award law in discussion or review – should not be a criterion whether the firm receiving this contract carries out apprenticeship training, whether it is in general training and whether it is continuing training. That would be a possibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] It would also be useful to improve education in general. Minister! It is no coincidence that the design of vocational school books is the worst. The value of the Catholic family association clearly says that the vocational school books are of miserable quality. Of course, something has to be done. Vocational training must not remain a stepchild. The permeability must be increased. No tuition fees for the colleges but you discuss them. These are not appropriate if one really wants to promote vocational training. Greater differentiation in vocational training would be beneficial. Instead of giving up empty promises as regards teaching, you, ladies and gentlemen, should be able to reach that young people do not go out empty.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9154	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He's got the floor. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9175	Ladies and gentlemen! The Members of Parliament and the speakers from the government groups have once again stressed the importance of this issue from this speaker's point of view. I would just like to ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the People's Party, because there was a particularly striking point as to why you have now destroyed the importance and the topicality of this question. Mrs Gehrer said that when she said that the number of apprentices was falling, it was not that bad. Mrs Moser said incredibly naïve: If you look at international statistics, you see no problem at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! I believe that this is really the wrong approach. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Consider only the naked numbers if you are already working with statistics: In 1979 there were 197,000 apprentices, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in 1995 there were only 123,000 apprentices. Mr Khol! Mrs Moser! This is a drop of over 40 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Fewer children and in school!]] Mr Khol! I've been waiting for this call. Of course, this is also a question of demographic development. But, Mr Khol, you would have been responsible for this, including family policy, in recent years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is also a lack of initiatives to prevent this spiral, which also concerns us in other resorts. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I made my contribution!]] But, Mr Khol, it is not just about demographic development, you know that very well: Long-term statistics suggest that in the next few years, the number of school leavers will be very similar to that of the trainees, the graduates of professional training. That is, we will have a similar number of school leavers in the future – and we do not know what career they will go into – as do apprentices that we will need in the future as much as well-trained academics. Mr Khol! Where, then, are your actions and proposals on how to counter a reduction in the number of apprenticeships? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Lord will tell you this stupidly!]] I am very excited, however, Mr President. But who is in the government, Mr. Khol? Who would have had the opportunity in recent months and years to counteract this development? That was you from the People's Party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what are you doing? – They argue with the socialists about who is guilty of this apprenticeship problem, whether it is the union or the Chamber of Commerce. Ladies and gentlemen! Leave the union out of the game! Leave the Chamber of Commerce out of the game! Instead, finally, put in place the relevant legal measures, together with us! We are working together, and we are forcing the Chamber of Commerce and the trade union to follow our laws, and the apprentices, but also the economic operators, are well represented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Mrs Schaffenrath has said, there can be no solution: We relieve businesses by not paying apprentices compensation for the time of their vocational schooling. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Why not?]] Mrs Schaffenrath, this is exactly the wrong approach! We must try to give apprentices a better social position. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Do you know what the mason instructor gets in the cut? 11,000 S!]] We need to relieve businesses, of course, but we are discussing a reduction in additional labour costs for economic operators and a proper economic policy. It should also be in your interest to be able to afford business firms and operators to recruit apprentices and train apprentices. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are the important approaches to be discussed here. Mr Koppler! They accused us that we would only think this was polemic. – The opposite is the case, and you really know that very well. If you and everyone else really are concerned about the social importance and the social importance of apprentices, then I would ask you to prevent – I have already brought this up in the last debate – that your organizations, such as socialist "children friends", with the support of the Chamber of Workers and with the support of the Ministry of the Interior Pamphlete, propose games in which the apprentice is subvertly defamed as a dumpling right-wing extremist. This is in fact party polemics and abuse of apprentices for party policy purposes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister of Education! I have also missed the proposal that we should also discuss in detail our education system, that we should see the apprentice and the education as part of the entire education system, which starts with the primary school, where we have problems, and about the primary schools and the polytechnics. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be important to discuss the fundamental problems together once and to decide on legal measures for our apprentices in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9302	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9323	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, let me refer to the comments made by some of the previous speakers. Mr Haigermoser, Mr Dolinschek and Mr Scheibner have it relatively easy, because they can demand everything that is good and expensive, they do not need to take care of budgets. You don't need to worry about how this is to be accommodated temporarily. That is the advantage of the opposition. I hope the citizens are so wise not to believe everything. Mr Scheibner! But it must also be allowed to quote data as they are, without saying that the problem would be indifferent to us. We don't care about an apprentice who doesn't find an apprenticeship, we don't care about a youth who doesn't find a training place, of course. But we will still have to say that in this Europe, where there are many highly industrialized countries, the youth unemployment rate in Austria is the lowest of all EU countries with 6 percent. Second, Luxembourg is 8 per cent and third in Denmark with 8.3, then Germany comes with 9.2 per cent. All other countries are substantially above that. This does not, however, leave us the obligation to take action because we want to keep this place. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We like to have this discussion! There's no problem.]] We want to keep this first place, and we will do everything we can to achieve it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation of teaching contracts has not worsened dramatically, but the number of job-seekers in the employment offices, the labour market service and the notified open teaching posts. This is the result of the fact that, in part, apprentices themselves have become much more initiative and have sought apprenticeships; this is evident. Secondly, this means that farms are partly waiting – that is the problem at the moment – which is decided on in terms of funding. We should therefore come to these decisions very quickly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In your government policy!]] Mr Haigermoser! Instead of calling in between here, you should talk to your city councillor Federspiel, the liberal Innsbruck hanging sign, and ask him why he has not trained an apprentice since 1995. Ask him once, you can do something for two teaching places. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Because of your government policy!]] He's always done this before. I want to focus here now on what we do in the field of school and in the field of... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now the spring game is to blame on the dilemma!]] Mr Haigermoser, you've been raised like this right now, haven't you spoken in the club? Did the boss talk there? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would now like to focus on the school measures we are setting out here. The Federal Government and the Coalition have very clear concepts in this regard, which I may present to you: In the field of vocational school, which is re-readable in the coalition agreement and also in the resolution adopted by this Parliament before the summer, we would like to see a greater integration of teaching professions into professional fields, so that it is only later that specialisation can be made in order to have the opportunity to take different occupations. This reform in the field of vocational training and vocational training has already been partly addressed, there are already first professions with regard to which this has happened. The reform will be continued quickly and will be continued quickly. This year, I think, it will be possible to send at least a draft to the review, according to which the new system of professional maturity examination will be developed, where apprentices in vocational school can gain access to the vocational universities, direct access to universities. This will result in a very clear appreciation of the apprentices. We will expand vocational schools into learning centres in cooperation with the adult education institutions, and we will assign new tasks to vocational schools as a whole, and we will strengthen the professional part of basic training in the field of the reform of the polytechnic course. You see, there are a lot of measures in the field of vocational education schools, compulsory schools, middle and higher schools that are set up in the near future. We are committed to maintaining this system so effectively. And if we have put in place these measures, you will see – now I come back to the figures – that we continue to be among the countries that can provide their young people with the best training in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9419	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He's got the floor. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9439	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We are discussing today the important question of apprenticeship training within a current hour, allow me a preliminary remark, ladies and gentlemen: I say quite consciously, as a representative of the economy, that the most important capital we have in the economy is not the equity – as important as this may be – nor the foreign capital, the most important capital in the economy are the human resources of our employees, is human capital! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It shows the importance that young people have in a society to which we are willing to invest, in particular, in young people and in their education – this is a classic investment in the future. We from the People's Party are willing to acknowledge: We must invest in the formation of our youth, which is seen as a future investment. And we will continue to pursue this policy consistently in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not among those who do not show up the problems – I will do this the same way – but in one I must join my predecessor: Our system of dual vocational training may have some shortcomings in detail, but it has led us to have for years the lowest youth unemployment in Europe! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kröll.]] At this point I would like to thank all the companies and all teachers for having contributed, through their labour force, to the fact that we have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we must not overlook the fact that, of course, we also have problems. In particular, we have the problem of a decline in the willingness to train firms. If you are talking to the companies when you look at their opinion polls, please note that: There are three very clear reasons: first reason: Many entrepreneurs say: The apprentices have become too expensive!, second reason: The apprentices are too little in the business! and third reason: The labour regulations are too practical and too flexible! Ladies and gentlemen! We must take these reasons seriously, we cannot make it so easy to say: A central fund or teaching workshops solve the problem. – The problem cannot be solved so easily, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mr Haigermoser, I came from this speaker's desk on 12 February. The position of my group on the Fund is very clear on July: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] We are against the fund, we are in favour of a reasonable burden-equilibrium in the form of incentives, for example through apprenticeship allowances, for example through relief from health insurance contributions. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Agreed!]] I am very glad that we were able to take a first important step in the discharge of health insurance companies under the contract scheme, and I also recognise that many municipalities are willing to replace the municipal tax for apprentices. We must continue to do this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to relieve businesses financially. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Mr Koppler! The point is what our clubman said: The only ones who can create apprenticeships are businesses and entrepreneurs – and nobody else! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Next point: Ladies and gentlemen! We must be so honest as to admit that our labour law provisions are partly too inflexible, too antique and too little practice. Two examples: If a waiter's apprentice is no longer allowed to serve guests after 22:00 if a roofer's apprentice is not allowed to get up to the roof during his entire teaching period, because he's not yet 19 years old, then we need to adapt in these areas – in the interests of our youth and their training. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a fool!]] [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] It is absurd that in Austria, at the age of 18, all are of age, but for apprentices up to 19 years of age, the law on child and youth employment applies. There is no doubt that we have to re-set the course. We are ready to do so in the interests of the prospects for our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9557	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9578	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am pleased that I am speaking as a person concerned, a person who has been training apprentices in his company for many years and who sees it as the responsibility of the economy and the entrepreneur to be active in apprenticeship training. I would like to follow up on what Mr Oellinger said. It has found that our economy is in an infinite change, that the cost pressure under which the companies stand leads to the costs of apprenticeship training being calculated too, and it is noted that, as may be otherwise, the investment being made in these young people is higher than that which ultimately results from an apprentice's productivity. I must tell you with deep concern that our company will also reduce the number of apprentices who have reached 25 in 1995 to 15 by 1997. I'm telling you this with deep concern. We are not about to think more intensively about this magnificent system of apprenticeship training than just reforming school and starting a retreat there and there. We must be clear that it is actually a Community and social task to finance the secondary education level – that is quite natural for Maturants, there is no discussion about it; it is also natural for the student. Why do we not enter into a real partnership with regard to training, the burden, the work and the expense for apprentices? In my opinion, Mrs Schaffenrath has shown in the right direction: We need to decouple vocational schooling and teaching time. I consider myself to be an absolute extension of vocational schooling, it is necessary. We also need such a high level of qualification in terms of lifelong learning that we need to make vocational schooling more flexible. I mean, if apprenticeship and vocational schooling are decoupled, then three months of vocational schooling in a vocational training centre would be a minimum for me, where young people learn different modules necessary for their profession. This can take up to six months of vocational schooling, and six months remain in the year in which the apprentice is employed and, of course, should have a decent apprentice compensation. In the other six months a year, he should be treated like a student. In this way we could give our skilled workers more knowledge. Why has the economy always blocked when it comes to expanding vocational schooling? – Because she was always afraid that she would have to pay for more months, and this bill between training and what an apprentice is doing in the business is getting even worse. Let us take the lead in the vocational training centres, in the separation of vocational school and teaching time, and thus open the secondary education path for young people, for young boys and girls who want to go the way through teaching, automatically up to the tertiary level of education. Why can't an apprentice who has made six months of professional school module-like – I know, these six months he's in operation, those six months in school – come up with further modules after the end of his teaching period until he's in high school? Can't be much more attractive for many young people to say: I'm going the way of teaching because I have the same path to tertiary education as if I'm going to a secondary school!Unknown term type: "%s".? We have a lot too many demolitions, Madam Minister of Education. We've got a lot too many AHS breakers, we've got a lot too many BAS breakers. We should be even more concerned with apprenticeship training in the economy. Our goal should be to invest in apprenticeship training. Only, under the present circumstances, under the present framework conditions which this Parliament has decided to set up, do we have the effect – that is to say, the statistics – that fewer and fewer firms are willing to assume this responsibility because they are no longer able to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the apprenticeship training, the dual training is indispensable, has proved it. However, I think it has to be substantially reformed immediately, but then we can take up more apprentices in new vocational education and training in the firms, because if an apprentice is in operation only six months – the duality: half-time here, half-time there – we can double the number of young people who are being trained in us. The world has become more complicated, the training requirements have increased – we are also adapting these problems to apprenticeship training! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9632	The last speaker was Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9654	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about the financing of dual training and, essentially, I would like to call for greater involvement by the State in this financing. It's a very rough statement. It seems to me that the apprentice has three segments in his working time and activity: The apprentice works first for the firm, and it is clear that the firm has to make compensation for this activity. Secondly, the apprentice acquires – in the jargon of the economists, you apologise – such a thing as company-specific human capital, which is knowledge that he will, above all and primarily, be able to re-use and re-use in this company. However, it is only of primary interest for the company to this extent that the apprentice remains in operation for some time after training. Thirdly, the apprentice naturally acquires general knowledge which he can use in his profession at any workplace in principle. In my opinion, it has always been difficult to attach the total funding for this training to the company, but it has not been noticed for decades. It has not been noticed for so long, as long as workers were scarcely present, not in surplus, as long as the mobility of workers was lower than today. But the stronger this mobility, which we want to promote in principle by the keywords "flexibility", "more general education" and so on, in other words, the weaker the firm fixation after training becomes, the more uninteresting it becomes for the company to train apprentices in its own interest. Spooky or cynical can be said: It increases the interest of the company to become "black drivers" in the system, namely, hire people who have been trained by other businesses. But I think that's a misleading view. It has simply fallen the self-interest of businesses to train apprentices, and it is a consequence to draw. If we want to maintain dual training in principle – I am not talking about the structure of the whole and various reforms in detail that my previous speakers have tailored – then a stronger participation in external financing is essential – I say now quite grossly. You can negotiate the exact arrangements. Whether it is a payment model, a fund model, whether it is a simple tax savings for the trainees, I think, in the end, of secondary importance and rather a question of power or a question of enforcement of individual interests, but it should not change the principle that the State must take a greater part in this, and that it is quick. – In view of the figures already mentioned today, we have no time to wait any longer if the so-called dual training system is not to be destroyed. It is true that youth unemployment in Austria is lower than in most other countries – which is certainly also the dual education system – but if it continues to do so, it will no longer be like that in three years. In this sense, I believe that the fight against youth unemployment must have absolute priority, because we do not have much time there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9705	No one has been reported in the word, so the debate is closed and the current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e9726	As regards the items of the negotiation obtained and their allocation, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10074	In addition, the following templates have been received, which are not yet included in the Communication: International Natural Rubber Convention of 1995 and Annexes (314 of the Supplements), Protocol to the Fourth ACP-EC Lomé Convention following the accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union (315 of the Supplements), Agreement amending the fourth ACP-EC Convention of Lomé and its Final Act (316 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from the assignment of these items to a committee and to take them into account when drawing up the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? – This is not the case, so we will proceed in this way. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10111	Mr Fekter, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades requested urgent consideration of the self-employed request made at the same time by Mr Fekter, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades on the protection of our children before entering the agenda. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the implementation of the urgent request will normally be called into the agenda at 3 p.m. but at the earliest three hours after receipt. As we are going to go into the agenda in the next few moments, I shall state the call for this urgent request at 3.50 p.m., i.e. in three hours, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Request for a question answer
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10137	I would also like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the question of question 701/AB of Question No 620/J by Dr Kier and others on social security obligations for works contracts by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. As it is planned for today's meeting to deal with a urgent request, as just announced, this brief debate on the response to the question will take place after the debate on the urgent request. Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor on Economic and Integration
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10165	We are now entering the agenda and coming to the only item on the agenda, namely the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor on economic and integration issues. Following these declarations, a debate on these declarations will take place in accordance with a request made. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10186	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I am beat in accordance with § 57 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure a block speaking time of 7 'Vienna hours', so that the members of the individual clubs have the following speaking times: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes as well as Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. This request shall be put to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the above-mentioned speaking times to give a sign of this. – This is adopted by a majority. In view of the fact that this is only an agenda item and not a day-block debate, a two-thirds majority would not be required.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10215	I can now give the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany the floor for his statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10237	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The first plenary session of the National Council after the summer break gives the opportunity to present here in front of the House the most important elements of the work of the Federal Government, focusing on economic and integration policy areas. We are directly faced with some important political decisions in our country, especially before the elections to the European Parliament on 13 December. October. However, we are also in the midst of the implementation of a government programme, which will continue to consolidate the state budget and give us more political scope for action to shape the future. And we are finally in a phase of permanent change and innovation, both in Europe and in the world. We, each and every one of us, have to face these processes. This is easy for no one, nor can it be without difficulty. But, basically, in Austria, there is a federal government and also legislation at work that recognises the problems, acts accordingly, and directs the right course for Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If we look beyond the daily absolutely necessary, indispensable small work, we can see again how good Austria is in the international comparison. Let's take unemployment in the lower quarter. Let's take inflation in the bottom third. Let us take the number of employees: as high as hardly ever before in our country. Take the stability of the Austrian currency: recognized worldwide. Take our social system, our education systems, our environmental standards: exemplary worldwide. And yet: Ladies and gentlemen! All this isn't enough. For these successes there is no guarantee of continuation, quite the contrary, we must fight to secure and develop them. Not least, this objective has also served to join the European Union. Today – more than ever – we can say: It was right to have taken this step, because only in and together with Europe are we, is our economy, our workers are strong enough to stand in the international competition. Only in a single Europe can we take part in the rules of the game. I know that's laborious, that's long and sometimes not connected with immediate success experiences. But democracy is sometimes laborious, sometimes long and sometimes not associated with immediate success experiences. Nevertheless, the success can be measured, visible, experienceable: The comparison of Europe 50 or 60 years ago with today's Europe makes it quite certain. We have launched a very comprehensive reform programme, which is committed to public finances, but which is far beyond that. Many other states still have an analog program. The Federal Government is determined to further consolidate the public budget while also implementing reforms in public administration, health care and pension systems. We mean, precisely because we do not keep up on this path, that we are on the right path here with us in Austria and also in Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I already said that the election to the European Parliament was held on 13 November. It is an election of high political importance in October. The Maastricht Treaty gave the European Parliament essential powers, such as the competence to approve budget issues, the appointment of the Commission and the resumption of a member. In particular, these three rights mean that Austrian EU parliamentarians have great responsibility in representing Austrian interests in the European Union. Therefore – for many other reasons too – we do not want and must not take this choice on the light shoulder. Let us consider the right of consent in budgetary matters: It is important for the net number of Austria to see what the budget looks like there. It is also very important for Austria as Commissioners to monitor compliance with EU rules in the Member States, and it is extremely important for Austria as the bordering country of the European Union, which countries are to be reintegrated into the Union. I have taken out these three elements in order to show how important the selection of persons is before the reform of the European Union Treaty, the Treaty which aims to bring up the European Parliament. However, a commitment to the European Parliament's election also includes a commitment to extending the competences of the European Parliament, even if the decision-making processes need to be streamlined there. The European Parliament's work has given important impetus to the integration process, such as the strengthening of the ecological dimension, the trans-European networks, the strong emphasis on human rights in connection with individual countries' agreements and also the energetic protest against the French nuclear experiments. At its meeting yesterday, the European Parliament took another important step towards minimum social standards. The decision-making of the Entrepreneurship Directive, which aims to prevent wage dumping in the Member States, is certainly of particular importance to Austria with its above-average wage level. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Federal Government – which the House will probably do – must continue to assume the great responsibility for Europe. Austria has the widest possible parliamentary involvement of all Member States in EU issues. This instrument has so far proved itself well, and I am sure that it will continue to be used responsibly in the future. What are the European political challenges of the coming years? – At the forefront is probably the Intergovernmental Conference, which was formally opened in March of this year and is now under negotiation. In this context, we will certainly also have to deal with so many rough issues. On the other hand, without any individual Member State, even without Austria, "no longer works" in Europe. And this is an important achievement for the member of the European Union Austria. We are therefore going to fight in practical terms to ensure that employment and employment policies are taken as seriously as a single currency, that the Union develops its social and its safety standards and its environmental standards upwards, that security policy, as we have stated in the Austrian Federal Government's basic document, is comprehensively defined so that the Austrian position is in reality taken into account in dealing with social and environmental risks, that crime control becomes a top priority and that military risks are minimized through conflict prevention and dialogue. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] However, the European Union's so-called daily policy should continue to bear Austrian manuscript. For example, the confidence pact of the President of the Commission Santer, which involves the social dialogue, the implementation of the trans-European networks, better research promotion and assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises – these small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union have to be implemented at least 70 percent of the jobs – and we will force this by the Austrian Government in all the bodies, the European Council, the Council of Foreign Ministers, the Council of Finance Ministers, the Economic Ministers, the Social Ministers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The following facts are opposed to all unacquainted calls that were heard before the referendum: Austria has still not joined any military alliance and does not take this into account. Agriculture has a 22 percent increase in income, and at least the Austrian food continues to enjoy the best quality in our markets and in our shops. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It should be stressed that Austria, as a net payer, is, of course, the duty of the Austrian taxpayer, who is entitled to a correct use of the contributions to be paid by Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! At the heart of all of our political considerations, the subject of work must always be the subject of work, since only meaningful work creates the prosperity that characterizes our society and which we are also proud of. Work is certainly not to be achieved by providing job guarantees or by means of a subsidy mechanism. Work must be created again and again, and policy must provide the environment and the conditions for it, because it is of course that the concrete implementation of programmes or the concrete creation of jobs in firms and enterprises is taking place. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let us take a look at labour market data: They show a moderate decline in unemployment in mid-September compared with August this year. With an unemployment rate of 4.1 percent, Austria continues to be an excellent third place behind Luxembourg with 3.1 percent and Japan with 3.4 percent compared to the world's industrialized countries, i.e. the OECD countries. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to consider the good starting position of Austria. The "Job Wonderland", the United States of America, is praised as such, but at an unemployment rate of 5.4 percent is significantly worse than Austria. All of this, however, is not a reason for our country's current 190 000 unemployed people to be content. The deterioration of the labour market is the result of the combination of different factors. First of all, it is certainly the dramatic decline in economic growth since the 1970s, as well as a weak dynamic of real economic investment and last but not least the unstable economic development. The unemployment increase across Europe – much less in Austria – has many different causes. It follows that economic policy also has to use a variety of instruments to combat them and to act responsibly at all levels. The clarification that the Austrian unemployment rate is less than half of the average of the European Union states is therefore important because of various motives, occasionally due to errors, occasionally due to transparent political motives, patent recipes are also repeatedly propagated in us, which have failed in other countries and would also lead to a deterioration in economic development and the labour market situation in Austria. Employment policies, which are to benefit from, for example, wage cuts in general or social dumping or environmental dumping, therefore, I would like to make a clear rejection, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot become Austria's principle strategy to compete with low-cost countries on labour costs. In view of the better situation in our labour market, this relatively better situation must not also be put at risk by economic policy experiments. On the other hand, I am particularly concerned about speeding up the implementation of what is really useful for Austria and speeding up the implementation of measures already under way. Ladies and gentlemen! I meant, first of all, that all the major changes were not without difficulties and not without hardship. With the sale of a large food chain and the highly disputed behaviour of the German owners of the company Semperit, a climate of mood has emerged in Austria, which is expressed by the word "saleout". This mood is primarily emotional. However, I take them very seriously, but I accept the following: First: The balance sheet is not as clear and uneven as it seems. Many Austrian companies are active abroad and multinationally, have established operations outside the borders of our Republic and have bought up foreign companies in production, in trade, in services, in financial matters. Of course, internationalization is not a one-way road. Numerous current examples, from BMW to Chrysler, from KNP-Leykam to Siemens, from Opel to Grundig, demonstrate the accuracy of a strategy of promoting technology-intensive operations. These examples show the importance of foreign investment in Austria for competitiveness, technology, research and development, and innovation in general for our country. Foreign companies, if they are active in these technology-intensive industries, thus contribute to high value added in Austria and also to the dynamic development of our economy. In fact, numerous qualified jobs and attractive incomes have been created. It is therefore particularly important that we continue to establish and strengthen companies and their centres of competence in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, we have also decided to define and pursue a conscious Austrian strategy. What do I mean by that? – We will define all the companies that are located in important sectors of the economy, which are in Austrian hands, but which are candidates of deregulation or privatisation or are also interested in foreign interests because of their success. We will work together to keep these companies competitive in international competition. I am counting on the electricity sector, for example, where it will be a matter of bringing alliances and national companies into a coherent strategy in Austria and of strengthening cooperation and further developing this relationship. The same applies to aviation where the cooperation between AUA and Lauda Air has already begun and should be expanded this year. This also applies to the ORF, which is to be strengthened. This Austrian strategy is not a departure from the opening, quite the contrary: It is the necessary complement to our course of opening up in the course of globalisation. It is becoming self-conscious about your own strengths and becoming self-clear about what you want in the future. For each of these strategies, it is important to develop as strong Austrian players as possible, as it is currently called. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The availability of ownership of economic enterprises is not in itself a single criterion or even a measure of degree for our location and industrial policy. Nor does it make sense to want to face the pressure created by the new international division of labour exclusively through a competition of costs. Especially at a time when a greater number of suppliers, of constantly new products and technologies, of open borders, are at home, where our economy is – in a transferred sense – at home: at the high level of training of workers, in social security, in a large and functioning administration, in recognized universities and in excellent private and public transport infrastructure. We need to think about these strengths and not take up the struggle where one or more opponents always have a greater margin of freedom. If a high quality of the environment or a high level of income in some analyses are perceived as a disadvantage in the location, then the conclusion cannot be that we are talking about wage reduction or air pollution, only in order to lead to an apparently improvement in the location. We also advocate greater cost-effectiveness in the transport sector in order to bring freight transport and its expected growth to the rails. We don't start from any bad starting position: The Austrian Federal Railways transport more goods on the rails today than their Italian colleagues, twice as much as Switzerland and differ from Germany only by factor 3 and not by factor 7 to 10. That is why we are also committed to the implementation of the trans-European networks and to the approximation of European environmental standards. Even if a Member of the House has tried to claim otherwise, the chances are quite good. In any case, I assume that the average environmental standards in the European Union will move up and that Austria must not detract from its achieved environmental standards. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, new settlements on the one hand on the other will continue to be opposed in the future. It's not bad yet. In an overall perspective, however, it is about strategicly securing the location of Austria and maintaining it as a centre of competence for technology, research and development, for consulting, but also, of course, for production. The fact that this path cannot be so wrong shows the lively investment activity of foreign companies in Austria after the accession of our country to the European Union, actually precisely since the accession declaration or since the accession in 1992. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you add only the large direct investment of all the companies I have mentioned before, and others, then you have come to an investment volume of more than 27 billion schilling since EU accession. Ladies and gentlemen! With the integration into the common market, our country has a safe home port in international competition for export markets, investments and jobs. I would like to stress it once again: That can and must not mean that we are putting our hands in the lap – quite the contrary! The creation of businesses, the development of innovative products and processes, job creation and income creation must be facilitated. In other words, We need to make a simpler economy possible. In this context, I would like to point out in particular the Federal Government's plans to speed up, simplify and take a further step towards liberalising the trade regulations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The reform of access to industry is an essential prerequisite for the re-establishment of businesses and the creation of jobs. Of course, there will be a parallel increase in competition, and of course this will tend to lead to a richer supply, better quality and lower prices for consumers. The deregulation of access to the level necessary for the security of life, health and property will increase competition in markets which have so far been relatively well protected. It must be clear to us that this brings greater effort to those involved and those concerned. Those who benefit from the current state will probably not accept this without contradiction, which should nevertheless not prevent us from taking the measures that are indispensable to the future of Austria as an economic location. [[Congratulations to the SPÖ and to Mr Dr. Mock.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has set itself a large number of ambitious objectives for the legislative period and has set itself tasks, some of which can only be managed and accomplished in cooperation with the other local authorities. One of these major objectives is undoubtedly Austria's participation in the European Economic and Monetary Union. In this area in particular, we have taken a promising path towards a new partnership between the Federal Government, the federal states, cities and municipalities, which we must continue under all circumstances, not on the basis of the federal finances but on the basis of the total financial resources of our Republic. In this respect, I agreed last week with the Heads of State or Government to do everything on the part of the Federal Government and on the part of the national governments and to prepare concrete arrangements to ensure that mutual financial burdens on the local authorities by laws, regulations without cost calculation and without clarification of cost reduction will no longer be possible in the future in order to ensure the soundness of the overall state in a financial way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, just before the summer break, they passed legislation here in the House to re-regulate political relations. It is also known that a Commission has already been set up in the House and will be preparing proposals on this subject under the chairmanship of the President of the Court of Auditors. I myself will provide a clear, transparent, meaningful, just new income pyramid within the framework of all the possibilities available to me. This also includes serious and thorough consideration of every serious and good proposal. However, I also believe that in the future attempts at a populist licensing policy should continue to be faced with just as much determination as with all attempts to evaluate the state and its top representatives on the path of the referee law and thus ultimately question it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am sure you will agree with me that policy should not be reduced to persons who can afford political activity as a side job because they otherwise earn enough money. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: For example, bank pensioners!]] Yes, of course! [[Abg. Seidinger: Get out!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have come with... – I suppress my astonishment, from which corner the calls come from now. [[Prolonged calls. - President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm not a bank pensioner! Unfortunately!]] Ladies and gentlemen! My statements, which I am thus concluding – I thank you for your attention at the same time – show that we have a lot of work in front of us. They also show that we are on the right track. Our companion must not be small-minded on this path, but the firm will to work together on a strong Austria in a united Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10407	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement, and I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10428	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== September, one of the truly historical speeches was given. It was this Winston Churchill in the university's aula in Zurich. This speech, by the way, for interested parliamentarians, and that is certainly very many, was printed in the "New Zurich newspaper" in a special supplement yesterday. This speech is worth remembering when it was held – 19. September 1946 – and what was then – almost prophetically put into space. Winston Churchill literally: What would be an excellent remedy in view of human suffering and misery? – It is the new creation of the European people’s family by giving it a structure in which it can stand in peace, security and freedom. We need to build a kind of United States of Europe. Only in this way will hundreds of millions of exhausting people be able to preserve those simple joys and hopes that make life worth living. The only thing that is necessary is the decision of hundreds of millions of men and women to do justice instead of wrong and to reap blessing instead of curse as a reward. And then he thanked – also surprisingly by Winston Churchill – the efforts of the Pan-European Union, which Count Coudenhove-Kalergi, an Austrian, had a lot to do with the work of the famous French patriot Aristide Briand. He then says – a year after the end of the Second World War – that Germany must be deprived of power to rearm itself and overcome a new war of attack. But if all this is done, then the retribution must have an end, then what Gladstone called many years ago the "blessed act of oblivion": We must then turn our backs on the horror of the past, we must look to the future. And he goes on to say something that will surprise you: The first step towards the creation of a new European family must be a partnership between France and Germany. There is no resurgence of Europe without a spiritually large France and a spiritually large Germany. If the structure of the United States of Europe is built well and properly, then the material strength of a single state will be less important. Small nations will count as much as large, and they will secure their rank by their contribution to the common cause. – Prophetic words. And this project Europe is still alive today. It's a young project, and we're on it. One and a half years ago, exactly 20 months ago, Austria joined the EU. It is therefore time to draw a balance in view of the large lines. This project lives in Europe, has set itself the goal of monetary union ten years ago, and in three years the start-up is taking place. The European Single Market project is alive, because the European Economic Area was founded three years ago. The project of integration Europe – not the fortress! – lives, since for five years after the fall of Communism, a dense network of twelve association contracts with the Eastern European and Central European countries has now been established and completed. And since January 1995, three new members – Sweden, Finland and Austria – have been involved. The project continues to live and go because, towards the Intergovernmental Conference, towards eastern enlargement, towards the establishment of a common foreign and security policy and a defence policy is now being seriously negotiated. Of course, we should also raise the question that the Federal Chancellor has already tried to draw in some fast brush strokes. And I want to continue with what this project means to us in Austria and what it has moved. I agree with Mr Bundeskanzler that Austria is now represented not only in all EU bodies but has already shown its own manuscript. It is important who in the European Commission looks after the right and fights for certain political concerns. And we are proud – and I hope you share this view with me – that our Austrian Commissioner Franz Fischler has become "class best" in the Commission in an international assessment. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] One can be proud of this without expecting him to be the Austrian ambassador to the EU; he is not. He is a European politician, but he has not given his heart or his mind to the European wardrobe. And it's important – I agree with Franz Vranckky – who started from the 13th century. In October in the European Parliament, we will support the work we have done in the national Parliament, but also in the Councils of Ministers. We see – and this has also been made clear – a common line, a natural alliance with the European Parliament, especially the small and medium-sized countries, which supports us on many issues, when it comes to the cost-truth, when it comes to raising environmental standards, when it comes to an ecologically motivated social agricultural policy, when it comes to protecting human rights, peace, export and stability. We therefore want to make it easier for Europeans and Austrians who are glowing in this European Parliament, who support us in the work, and who can move something for people in this country and throughout Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's true: The location of Austria has become better, that is no question. For production and jobs, 15 billion Schilling were made net investments by foreign companies in Austria. And it's true: Most of these were carried out in 1994 following the referendum in June 1994. The following year it was already 18 billion schilling, and this year it will probably be the 25 billion schilling. Those who do not realize that the site of Austria, the production site, the investment site, has been improved, will close their eyes to objective economic reality. And it is true that the expectations we had – I still as Minister of Economic Affairs at the time – have been confirmed that export is being stimulated. For comparison: In the first year of our membership, 1995, Switzerland, with Ach and Krach, had 2 per cent export increases to the EU countries, we were able to record five times, 10 per cent, 11 per cent perhaps. This is a tremendous success. We know, of course, that virtually every third job in Austria depends on this large European market, directly dependent on the EU. Anyone who speculates openly or hiddenly with an exit option must know that he must be confronted with all the decisions of all those who are at the heart of employment and export. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Before joining, we had great concern about the location of Austria and the social and economic situation of our farmers. We were very concerned because, of course, we knew that this would go hand in hand with a dramatic price decline. But it would also have occurred if we had not joined, because the brutal reality of the GATT round, the world trade round, simply forced it. But we have negotiated well in Brussels and, above all, thanks to Parliament, the Federal Government and the coalition parties, we have not abandoned the farmers. We have contributed a great deal to their support nationally and from the EU side, and the success today stands out: In the first year of our membership, we have not only been able to keep the income situation of agriculture, but we have committed ourselves to including the degressive payments. This is a success that cannot be spoken away or debated away. It is a common success thanks to a strong representation of interests, a social partnership, but also thanks to the understanding of other groups for the needs of our farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From an ecological point of view, a lot has come into motion. The EU programmes, through the largest environmental project in our history, the ÖPUL programme, now manage 80 percent of the agricultural area throughout Austria by ecological means: with less fertilizers, less chemical use, there is no mass animal husbandry – that is, according to ecological principles. This can, I say, also become an export product back to other Member States of the Union and should be understood as an Austrian manuscript. Now there are some problems – and the Federal Chancellor has already raised some very honestly – which are important, though sometimes difficult. The first problem we have to deal with: If you want a genuine single market, you have to say a clear "yes" to a common currency in this single market, a clear, uniform, strong currency, otherwise this single market will never be completed. And we all – especially we hard-currency countries – would have to pay the price for it. Those who want the removal of borders, for tourists, for workers, for entrepreneurs, for investors, must fight for coordination of efforts for internal security, because otherwise we have the internal market for organised criminals, and this really does not want anyone, most of all, to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the hardest fight against organized crime, against drug dealers, against the traffickers, against prostitution and against those who deserve it, and against those who earn their money with the most dirty business at all, child pornography. Those who want to export stability, ladies and gentlemen, must also – and I know what I am saying; perhaps this is not so popular – be in favour of the enlargement of the Union. Finally, the decision-making question will be raised in the next few years: Where will countries that need to be at our heart, such as the Czech Republic, Hungary or Slovenia, but also Poland, not a neighbouring country, group themselves: around the multi-central core of Europe or again around Moscow? This is the simple and at the same time brutal truth. Therefore: Whoever is interested in us, not only from human or geopolitical considerations, even from his own Austrian considerations, must be for an enlargement of the Union, of course, according to clear principles and at a careful pace, but he must be fully committed to it, otherwise we will eventually import instability and problems that no one wants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever wants peace must be for a common It is a security policy and also a military security component, because there will be no demand for drivers in this solidarity Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And so I believe that Austria, which is in line with the accession treaty and the referendum of the 12th. In June, it was already known about these dimensions, which are now emerging, whose objective is fixed, where the way there is paved with hard negotiations, cannot and does not want to withdraw these demands. As I have said, Franz Vrannitzky has repeatedly spoken of the initiatives we are to bring into this European context. And it's true: Especially in recent months Austria has shown itself very actively and as an initiative. It is not right for us to just sit and wait during the negotiations, what others propose, we ourselves make proposals, not only for economic and monetary union, but also for an employment, social, environmental and security union. We Austrians were the first, - you know, as Foreign Ministers, I am dealing with the Austrian position at the Intergovernmental Conference - which has been used for the integration of the Social Charter into the European Treaty. It was we who made proposals that we should have employment on every agenda of the European Councils. It was we who fully supported Jacques Santer's ideas of creating a European social partnership, almost an Austrian export article, because it is important that not only governments and elected parliamentarians, but also the social partners are integrated on the employers', workers' and farmers' side. That's important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want each country to by no means reduce its national responsibility for employment. There lies the main responsibility; no question. Everyone needs to know that. But it is equally clear that we can do much at European level too: in monitoring, coordinating national employment programmes, considering each individual Commission proposal, which it means for employment, in the fight against the European Union at the front line, now at the World Trade Conference in Singapore, for example, that social standards are incorporated into world trade rules. That's our interest. We do not want to reduce, we want other groups of people, workers, workers, employees in Asia, Africa, South America, to enjoy social rights and minimum standards. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] We have presented an independent initiative in these days, according to which we also want to play a very active role in environmental law. We have proposed that we include the objectives of sustainable development in the European Treaty, that the Commission should review every single measure it proposes, namely the right of initiative, the right of monopoly for initiatives and proposals, the environmental impact. We also want to see a debate on animal welfare, elements against mass animal husbandry and a positive animal transport system at European level. We also want to make a proposal, together with the Italians, towards a European Charter of Citizens, which better describes citizens' rights in the direction of human rights. We also want to stress the community of values in the Union by defining the role of religious communities in the European Treaty and by more on other issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Allow me to mention another point which is very important. Tomorrow, Russian Foreign Minister Primakow will come to Vienna to meet NATO Secretary-General Solana – you will hardly guess; that is, you know it anyway. This dialogue is incredibly important. From an Austrian point of view, it is fully welcomed. It is important that we work on a comprehensive safety network across Europe, which has elements within the Western European Union, the European Union and, of course, NATO and the OSCE. No question at all. And we should keep the end, the objectives of this discussion open. I don't think I'm going to take over here and announce something that's not yet mature and, on the other hand, exclude something that may not be excluded. In this sense, I believe that our Austrian path, as we have defined in the government negotiations, is a wise one. It is one which describes a clear path in stages, building on the objective of the common foreign, security and defence policy. The first stage is marked by: The European Union will play a clear political role in certain, very important, preventive, security-related crises, and it will transfer them to the Western European Union for implementation. In various other areas, the WEU can and will become increasingly structurally interconnected with NATO and cooperate, such as in the case of Bosnia, where such a joint action is currently taking place. Of course, this means that the three major European Union, Western European Union and NATO organisations are moving closer together, and that will be good and right for Austrian security, because I believe that the best way of security is for Austrian citizens to be good enough! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In this sense, we should also see the discussion in Europe. [[Call to the liberals: Hot air!]] It is kept very interesting and open in Germany, where out-of-area operations are already clearly regulated. France and Spain are closer to such security structures, and also from the Austrian side, I think, we are well on our way, even with our own timetable, which, after considering these changes, proposes the necessary options to the Austrian Parliament at the latest at the beginning of 1998. So you see – I come to the end of it –: The project Europe works. Europe was the main victim of the cold war and has heard the opportunity to act globally today at the same level and the same, as Asia or America. It will not be easy to take advantage of these opportunities in any case. This does not happen from the outset and automatically, for we must see that after the volcanic outbreak of the collapse of Communism, many small aftershocks will be made in the near future. I believe, however, that Europe as a project can only survive in a state association, never as a centralist formation, where, in one place, whether in Brussels or elsewhere, it is acquired, what the other parts, the Member States, have to do. What is European must be solved at European level: external trade, the internal market, the currency, peacekeeping. The other must be transferred in a subsidiary way to the smaller unit, which can easily be better. [[Abg. Scheibner: Since when do you know, Minister?]] That is why the balance between the small states and the large states is essential to the functioning and viability of the European Union, in the sense of Winston Churchill's vision. And it is important and good, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria can take part in this. More than three million Austrians have us on the 12th. In June 1994, they were commissioned to do so, and they did not go astray when they decided, not only in their own interest, but especially in the interest of subsequent generations, so and no different. We have taken over the task of this majority, by this two-thirds majority of the Austrians, to keep Europe alive. And we'll do that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10564	I would also like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. We are now entering the debate on both statements, that of the Federal Chancellor and that of Mr Vice-Chancellor. I would remind you once again of the time limit decided on: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, FPÖ 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. As the first speaker, Deputy Dr. Jörg Haiderzu spoke. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10598	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As it should be expected, the two representatives of the Coalition Government were concerned with things that they had described to us before joining the EU in 1994. [[Abg. Kiss: Thyroid!]] I would now like to come back to reality, to a reality where perhaps some might find themselves in their responsibilities, because at the same time that Austria's successful integration into the EU is being praised here in the highest tones – and my own praise is always something dangerous, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government – writes, for example, the left-liberal sheet "Weltwoche" in Zurich following article "Austria's European policy has been under no happy star from the first moment until now. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Swiss are outside!]] It turns out to be a chain of half-truths, omissions, and excuses. Even with wrong numbers, it was operated. In contrast to major announcements, Vienna has not been able to contribute to Brussels's policy in any kind of initiative", and so on and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black goats.]] That is why I would like to raise a few questions, especially since the Federal Chancellor kindly speaks of the need to protect the taxpayer, but at the same time forgets that his own Minister of Economic Affairs in the Vranitzky cabinet has said: We have misnegotiated, we have come to the aid cases, we pay too much for Brussels and we are not getting back too much. For every schilling we get there, we have to put another 70 growlings on it ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a difference that needs to be explained. That is why we liberals do not go through cloudy explanations, but say quite unmistakably: When the European decision was adopted on 13 March. It will then strengthen those forces that want to work to ensure that Austria has fewer contributions in the future and can leave more money here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For example, the annual report of the former state-owned company Böhler Uddeholm can be read: Through the savings package of the Federal Government, the loss premium has been removed. Therefore, the operating result is worse and therefore we have to register 270 employees for termination. That's your policy. This is the result of a false negotiation of membership contributions to the European Union, leading to massive additional burdens on the Austrian population and the domestic economy. That's what we need to say to your address! Or: If there is a great deal of talk about agriculture, you say quite often, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that agriculture has greatly benefited. They will take away the displeasure of farmers, because no one understands that there is no way to mobilise compensation for the dramatic collapse of cattle prices, but the same EU spends 1 billion schilling each year to subsidise the Spanish bullfight. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's like the tortoise!]] You must first explain to the farmers why this is a sensible agricultural policy! And you must explain to the farmers that it is a "success" of your income policy if in the first EU year 12 400 farmers have left their farms and have given up production if a lower number of farmers generate the same income, which would have safeguarded existence without the subsidies in the transition, and if you have not made any investments in the previous year and therefore looked different in income policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Explain They are not large-scale: We are now also for a state association. It seems familiar to me. You still criticized us when we said: We are not for a state, but for a state association. At that time you said: Awesome, the liberal position! Now Mr. Vice-Chancellor has suddenly become smarter about the summer. He has read a bit in the liberal programs. Now he's for a state union. Ladies and gentlemen! So now Mr Vice-Chancellor is in favour of a state association and suddenly ignores that a mechanism of regulation is still on the agenda in Brussels, where, for example, in order to stay with the farmers, everything is regulated up to the level of completion in the dairy chamber, up to the service of the almhirts, up to the requirement that the farmer should take a towel when he comes out of the stable, everything is regulated. That's what's going on. Your supposedly so cooperative Brussels state, which you now want to form in the sense of subsidiarity. – Rules First of all, you have your language on the question of what is really in need of regulation, instead of telling us such fairy tales here that you want to have a Confederative State – and at the same time, the regulatory will in Brussels continues. That's not what we believe you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would now like to turn to a little job policy, because it is obvious. In the socialist telegram, which has been sent to households in the course of EU elections and in the course of national elections, the Federal Chancellor has repeatedly said: EU accession brings us 38 000 new jobs in the short term. Mr Vice-Chancellor did not let himself be lumpled and said: What is the meaning of 38 000, 70 000 new jobs will come! – Result: Today, after two years, we have more unemployed and no less. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: More jobs!]] We have fewer jobs – Mr Khol, you are unfortunately misinformed – and not anymore! We have an increase of 17 percent for the permanent unemployed, ladies and gentlemen. We have 80 000 emergency workers in this Republic, and we have over 100,000 people who can carry less than 10 000 s a month of income home. We have 5 000 young people who do not receive a apprenticeship. – This is the sober, sad balance of your integration policy, ladies and gentlemen! And this balance sheet is being discussed today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Among them are the victims in the food industry: minus 4,000 jobs up to today. Mr Vice-Chancellor has promised "Eurofit programmes" which do not reach today – therefore, 4,000 jobs are broken! The textile and clothing industry – I quote only the question given by the Minister of Economic Affairs – has lost over 4 300 jobs since accession to the EU. Let us remember the television appearance of a textile industrial who said: Only those who say yes to the EU say yes to safeguard jobs. – And now we have 4 300 jobs less in the first year! – Mrs Colleague, be very quiet with your 1 000 s! Figures [[Abg. May. Ederer: How much would she have lost if we hadn't joined?]] You first get your debts before you make intermediate remarks here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you give the Austrians the thousands you promised them, you can reunite in the debate here. But someone who has been announcing something that does not happen for years is not very credible! Your own Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Farnleitner, said: Well, believe me. She's not holding a Secretary of State! – Please, this is a good justification that he has given you on TV. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It goes on: 6 000 jobs in the forwarding industry are gone overnight. And now it is already celebrating this government as a success if the Semperit company may be able to keep the site, although over 1,000 jobs are lost because one does not negotiate because Mr Vice-Chancellor has misinformed Parliament. He said that he had negotiated everything with the Japanese and with the Europeans as far as Semperit is concerned. – Not once was he in Japan to negotiate this question! This goes on, into the electrical industry. The company AEG is now back in the process of leaving a few hundred jobs. We could give you examples of examples. So I quote one that you would otherwise like to cheer up, namely, the head of VOEST-ALPINE technology, Othmar Pühringer, who recently said in the "Salzburger Nachrichten": In Austria, the number of employees in the industry is falling, and that is depressing. We would also like to grow domestically – unfortunately, the prerequisites for this are not given. To create the conditions for this, ladies and gentlemen, is your responsibility. It is not a question of explaining to us how beautiful the EU is, but it is a question of finally creating the conditions in Austria so that the Austrians can really take out the benefits you have promised us in the case of EU membership. This question concerns us, and you have been guilty of it for years. You owe them to us in the Eurofit programme, which you owe us in deregulation, which you owe us in vocational training, which you owe us in technology policy, and which of course you owe us in employment policy, because otherwise you would not have risked thousands of jobs so easily. The result is there. Please read the latest study of the World Economic Forum – to which all the red and black politicians are piling each year – which shows that Austria's competitiveness has slipped back from the eleventh place to the nineteenth and the growth expectations of the Austrian economy over the next five years to the 33. Place has fallen back. Interestingly, Switzerland, quoted by you as a "armenhouse", has one of the largest growth rates in this study, and in competitiveness, it ranks far ahead of Austria as the supposedly so successful EU country. These are studies that you otherwise acclaim. These are seminars that you visit yourself with your politicians. These are documents that should no longer be questioned. And this also includes the insanity with the work contracts. With this contract scheme, you want to make it possible for an economic order in Austria to be used to treat the economy with regulations rather than to be characterised by a possible flexible use of labour. This madness you've made here with the work contracts is symptomatic of your policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What a success, Mr. Federal Chancellor, if you say on television to a semi-worker: I have already prevented the machines from being disassembled and transported to the Czech Republic in August!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is that your policy? Is this a policy, if one says we are giving subsidies, but if one does not comply with the rules of the game, then we cannot do anything when locked up? Semperit has received 1.2 billion schilling of public grants. The DDSG has also let the river go down with more than 1 billion schilling of public funds, and today it belongs to foreign countries. The same is now happening at the paper factory Hallein. There millions and millions of millions are granted subsidies, and at the same time they say: We cancel people, you have to work longer, you don't get paid overtime. – These are the blessings of this new policy that you have promised us? People will not understand this if they have received 20 percent less pay overnight, that the chancellor is here and says: We Socialists, we from the Federal Government, will not allow people to be reduced their wages; we are against any form of wage dumping! But you put subsidies into a paper factory, which pays employees by 20 percent less overnight and no longer pays overtime – and lets them work on Saturday, Sunday. After what do you say about these real things that happen in Austria? Of course there is no information about this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: What about the company HTM? There is a wonderful report from the European Commission. I brought him. The European Commission says: The company HTM was sold at the time. It has resulted in damage to the state and thus to the owner, Austria tobacco, a damage of 3 billion schilling, and it has resulted in further damage to state banks of about 1 billion schilling. You can read all of this: 4 billion schilling damage by the ach so praised, excellent economic policy of this federal government. – Just a few examples to bring things back to their lot, which has been masked by these cloudy explanations that everything has developed so wonderfully. What about your promises in economic policy? Federal Chancellor! Before the last election, your Social Democrats distributed leaflets and said: If the black and blue block of citizens comes, there will be a deregulation of working time. This means that workers are available at any time. – Now Mr Nürnberger says: We need to talk about holiday work, we need to talk about Saturday, Sunday work. The ÖGB is ready to negotiate it. Second point: The SPÖ says before the election: Extension of normal daily working time to 10 to thirteen hours is threatened when bowls and sharks have something to talk about. That means: Loss of income due to the loss of overtime. – What is now at the paper factory in Hallein? – Drop off the overtime surcharges. What about BMW? – Drop off the overtime surcharges. What about other major companies, such as Steyr, where your former colleague, Streicher, is Director-General? – Removal of overtime surcharges, Saturday work without additional payment. And you make yourself there and say, We will fight against any form of wage dumping and loss of income!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is really a very bad way to provoke the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, because politics is quite different! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: There will be a loss of tax freedom of overtime when bowls and sharks have something to talk about, it was said. Now, Vrannitzky has something to talk about, and now there is massive wage losses, because no more overtime is paid because Mrs. Ederer has made the proposal: Instead of overtime, there is a leisure balance. So people will earn less, even if they are diligent. Only Mr. Klima's secretary, who hacks the whole thing out – 21 in the number! – of course have special contracts with overtime payees of the amount of 80 000 S per month. What you are jealous of the small worker, however, is still possible in the Federal Government. I can show you a nice paper if you want evidence. So, it's all very different than it's presented here. The leaflet also states: If Schüssel and Haider have something to talk about, there is less promotion of training, fewer apprenticeships. – 5 000 teaching places, Mr Bundeskanzler, are missing today. 5,000! 80,000 people are beneficiaries of social assistance or emergency aid under your government. This is a dramatic increase. 12 400 farmers have turned their backs on their farm and are also looking for a new job. That's not a success, you can't make yourself and say: We Social Democrats secure the social future of Austria, because it is now all about it. Keep your social resolutions, which you are now adopting before the EU election! Take care of the concrete life-sicks of the Austrians whom you have chosen and who are directly entrusted to you! There's a lot to do to keep your promises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I say quite openly: We have followed these statements with interest, but of course we will have to comment on them, because you cannot announce again, we will have a lot of work in the autumn. For months now, please, you have had the opportunity to finally create these framework conditions, which you have promised in the course of accession to the EU. You could do that now, and they could all do it. Mr Maderthaner can make his contribution by finally paying back the 3.3 billion schilling to the Austrian economy too much and falsely collected foreign trade promotion contributions. This is the best economic promotion, President Maderthaner! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is where the EIA can make a contribution by making it possible, for the first time, to make real flexible working time arrangements where it makes sense, by today agreeing to our motion for a resolution, which provides for the abolition of the working contract scheme without replacement and the reintroduction of the old system. And don't come here now and say we've found a compromise now! Her own country party observer of the Vienna ÖVP, Mr. Göerg, makes a signature action. This sheet reads: "The Vienna People's Party therefore demands that the new regulations of the works contracts be repealed immediately and the original state (as before the 1st century). In July 1996 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the That's what ÖVP writes, ladies and gentlemen. That's also an interesting thing! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I like to sign this up and send it back to him!]] There's a Zetterl there, you can sign it. So you are cordially invited to accept our motion for a resolution, which I am now submitting, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So we can invite you to join us. And we can invite you to say in concrete terms how you follow the English example and the German example that will negotiate down the net burden from EU accession so that more money can remain in Austria so that a tax reform can be carried out that allows the formation of businesses' equity through non-taxation of non-taxable profits. And we invite you to declare here also binding on us how you want to prevent wage dumping, what concrete measures you will take to prevent Austrians who have become too expensive today from being exchanged by cheaper foreigners and thus creating a socially disproportionately problematic situation. These are the things we want to talk to you about. Your announcements should save you, you already made them in the government statement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10822	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider is sufficiently supported. He will be involved in the trial. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e10851	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I finally know why the liberals wanted a different agenda today. It wasn't clear to me in the morning, but now I know. That's where I want to paraphrase Karl Kraus: Mr Haider! You really don't think anything about Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] May I ask you, in your collection of quotations, to put things right, to say a few things: The word "constitution" for the European Union is, of course, not from the programme of freedom, but from the judgment of the German Federal Constitutional Court, which qualifies Europe as a result of the Maastricht Treaty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the workers, I must correct the following: We had 3 070 000 unemployed in 1994, and we now have 3 138 000 unemployed people – a maximum number of whom we have not had for years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you quote the "Weltwoche" for Switzerland, I quote the "New Zurich Newspaper". Read "The ever-increasing burden of the EEA No": "No less than 61 percent of the companies surveyed in Switzerland today consider the departure of Europe to be annoyed to threatening. In addition, 55 of the companies replied to the protocol that integration policy abstinence would be economically more expensive and more ambitious. This is most evident in manufacturing, because 27 percent of the companies surveyed in Switzerland have moved parts of their production abroad." Mr Haider! Do you really want this for Austria as a model? – I don’t really! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to give you an example: A young Carinthian is active in Paris, was expelled in the summer by the company Swatch of Alcatel. He is a business administrator and comes from Klagenfurt. When he told me that, I wondered why. – Now I know: The company Swatch moves her headquarters to Austria, needs Austrians to get someone from abroad because she has no location in Switzerland for her international production! - That's Switzerland. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Vice-Chancellor referred to the Europe project as the major project. And I also read the "New Zurich Newspaper and the touching speech by Winston Churchill of 50 years ago. Of course, Europe is a construction site, and for this construction site in the Europe project we need a good plan, we need good will, we need optimism and we need good workers. And if I look at who we send to Europe, a Ursula Stenzel, a Karl Habsburg, a Paul Rübig, a Agnes Schierhuber, a Hubert Pirker, then I must say we have good workers. [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ, Freedom and Liberal Forum]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is this Karl Habsburg who is the president of the Pan-European Movement, founded by Count Coudenhove-Kalergi and qualified Winston Churchill as a pioneer of the European Union 50 years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How many semesters is this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Harm for the movement!]] Yes, I know you can't get rid of your prejudices, Mr. Novotny. Habsburg cannibalism is widespread with you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I'm just looking at his achievements!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor have presented us today with the plan with optimism we have for the project Europe. We don't need any Nörglers – the Nörglers don't have any alternatives to that either – we don't need fear-makers either, and we don't need pessimists, but we need optimists who go to work with power of action. – Work and don’t nag! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address the Green Group, i.e. the Bankomat fractions in this House. What kind of Nörgler and terrifier! Where's the blood chocolate? I have never seen them and nowhere, and Wolfgang Schüssels praises that anyone who brings him a blood chocolate is still not forgiven. There is no such thing as fear of the EU [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, where is the flood of the Austrian universities by foreign listeners? [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's not because the Habsburg represents the place for them!]] The opposite is true: 8,000 Austrians are now studying in the EU foreign countries, which they have not been able to do in the past. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And the Habsburg still!]] Where is the flood of Austria with Portuguese and Spaniards, the host worker wave you prophesied to us? We have believed the Chamber of Labour, which said that it will not happen, and it has not happened either. You've been scared – and the Portuguese and the Spaniards can't show us either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Where is the Austrian water you have seen in Spain? It's still with us. [[The speaker gave himself a glass of water.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Mr Haider! Where is the Austrian gold, the You've seen shifted to Brussels? With us it is, and the currency reserves of our National Bank are still excellent. [[Call the liberals:Where? Where?]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the thyroid fraction, even the shield lice did not eat us. [[Abg. Kiss: And now the culprit!]] Why have we joined the European Union, ladies and gentlemen? Because the European Union is the great peace project, the great environmental project, the great security project and the great economic project. And our expectations, which we have linked to this project, are largely fulfilled, and you can't discuss that away. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, not everything has immediately occurred to 100 percent. Of course, we know that the effects need a certain period of time, of course we know that there are difficulties in the transition, but we are dealing with these difficulties with the action of the people of this country, the hard workmen of Austrians, who are initiative, prove themselves throughout the world and are also bringing forward our country in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The EU as a peace project. We have already said before the referendum that we will have no difficulties with our neutrality in the EU – and we have no difficulties. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because there is no longer any more!]] Nor do we have any difficulties with European solidarity, we are in solidarity in the Union, and we have not had to change a Jota from our previous policy. The Vice-Chancellor has said that the best security for Austria is just good enough, and that is why we will be actively involved in the new peace order that is emerging. The Western European Union is the instrument, and as soon as the new peace order is clearly set out in its contours, we will make the decision what we are doing. I would like to say to Mr Cap: In his efforts to join NATO, he took part at the time for his party to join the He has put room – he has proposed NATO accession – but should not rely on the liberals. For the liberals have also advertised for the EU before the EU referendum in glowing colours. Hic Rhodus, nunc salta: When they were before the decision, they agreed to it. And so they will say goodbye to all other things, if it brings them a voice and half more than nothing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the Liberals, the speaker will want to hang the neutrality on the nail after me, my friend Frischenschlager. This is his old-fashioned belonging to the liberals. They, Mr President, have never had anything to do with neutrality. I would like to say that today neutrality is no longer the instrument it once was, but it has an important residual function in addition to European solidarity, and therefore you will not be able to win us for the abolition of neutrality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to colleagues from the F: I would suggest that your top-ranking candidate for Europe visit the courses of the Freedom Education Work so that he learns, for example, that Norway is not a member of the European Union, and that he knows that a state association which he spoke of today in the early part-session of interest is far less than what the Council of Europe is already proposing today that he should therefore make a way into the dark Middle Ages. Ladies and gentlemen! The security project The European Union is of great importance to our people, and we attach ourselves to it with our heart and soul. Europe is also a community of internal security, a community of crime control, a community against drug abuse, a community against child pornography. That is why I would like to give our full support to this pult from the Minister of the Interior when he finally creates the instruments that we need: We need modern arrest methods, we finally need the division of labour between customs guards and Gendarmerie at the border. Minister of the Interior! Here you are juicy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are a member of Schengen next year, we will finally have to make a clear decision on what happens to customs guards, what happens to the Gendarmerie. It is not a question of the decision laid down in the Government Agreement that customs guards should come to the Gendarmerie and be used to ensure that this decision is not and will not be implemented! That's what we need to remind! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also spoke of Europe as the great economic and work project. The President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce will have the expertise to carry out things out here. But one thing I would like to say: We have the highest employment, and the business expert Breuss, whom you have repeatedly quoted, has clearly pointed out. Of course, we have had difficulties in the transition, and in the middle of 1995 the paper has already turned out, we are once again creating more jobs in our country, and the job assurance that the economy has given us is a fruit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 35 billion schillings have been invested since we were in the European Union, in jobs throughout the country: Siemens in Villach, BMW in Steyr, Opel in Vienna, KNP bei Leykam. I could also read a whole list, but I would also like to mention Austrian companies: Kaindl in Salzburg, Lenzing in Heiligenkreuz. These are big businesses, but I also want to tell you about a very small one: When I recently had an election event in the Drautal, an entrepreneur said to me: Doctor! All the plastic cubes you see in Vienna are from my company, Europlast. In the past we bought them from Italy, now we have a joint venture, I produce them in Dellach im Drautal and have created forty quality jobs in one year. – I congratulate the economy on such entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we had not joined, ladies and gentlemen – and we must say that too – we would not have an income increase in agriculture, but rather, as in Switzerland, 11 percent less income for farmers. We stand with our farmers, we stand for farm-structured family agriculture, and therefore we are for income growth rather than for income cuts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we had not joined, we would have 66 000 jobs less than we now have in five years from 1994 onwards. We would have 3.2 percent less economic growth, and we would not have succeeded in reducing food to the extent they were discounted. In fact, there are no statistics that speak of an average of so many percent. I was in St. Pölten at the company Spar – a great Austrian family company and the largest employer in the Republic. I asked: Mr. Director! You have 8,000 different goods in your range here. How is the price difference compared with EU accession? What do the 8,000 products cost together today compared with 1994? And he said, 6.8% less than 1994. What is available in this store is what the average Austrian needs to live, and that is 6.8% cheaper. And I think that's something we don't want to give up on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to draw attention to what the Vice-President has said, because he has spoken about the European community of values. Europe also needs a soul – Jacques Delors, the great Social Democrats, the President of the Commission, has said that. And if the Vice-President speaks of the European Charter of Citizens, of human rights, when he says that we want sustainable environmental protection in the EU Treaty, when he speaks of anchoring religious societies into the EU Treaty, when he says that the disabled and, finally, animal welfare are to come into the EU Treaty, he has our full support. We are the fundamental values for a Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite northernism and fundamentalism: The Europe project continues. With optimism and action on the construction site. I look forward to the day in 1998 when we will take over the presidency at the Intergovernmental Conference. An Austrian head of state, an Austrian head of government and an Austrian foreign minister will lead Europe in 1998, where in 1815, the last time at the Vienna Congress of Austria, Europe. - Good luck, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11135	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager. - I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11156	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I was pleasantly surprised by the two reports of our Heads of Government when they actually tried to show the European dimension in a rather large way. I am just wondering if such speeches can explain why so many Austrians have had such a deep distrust of European integration, unfortunately, since these target dimensions are so clear. And I'm also wondering, What is the reason why a much greater proportion of the population would now oppose Austria's accession to the European Union? Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I'm wondering, What have you actually done from this incredibly far-sighted yes of the Austrians to the EU over two years ago in view of the European future of Austria? What have you done to Europe's policy in the meantime, so that a change of mood cannot at least be denied? I do not really want to address this whole sad development right after the referendum. Let us remember, for example, only the differences of competence, the range around every post in the Austrian mission in Brussels, so that every government party has "their" officials there. Austria has the largest mission in Brussels – after Germany. The federal states – with the exception of one – have also created their own message there in Brussels "must". Even Commissioner Fischler expressed himself very clearly at the time and said: What is all this about practical exports from Austria in terms of personnel policy by trying to bring this just too tragic Austrian pro-pore policy into the EU's office as possible! So I think it almost sounds like a threat when, in the election campaign, the key word of the "economy of Europe" appears. I do not think of the European future as the specific EU policy of this great coalition after the referendum. That can't be our goal! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But, as I have said, it is not really so much about pointing to these strange practices, but what is particularly disturbing to me – and this is contrary to their speeches today – that this great coalition, at least as it is, threatens to lose sight of the further political dimension of European unification. I have heard very nice of you today about the Internal Market et cetera. But I am asking – and I am speaking specifically to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: What is to be thought of by an economic minister who, as one of his first statements, wants to prescribe to the Austrians all serious "patriotic shopping" and "patriotic holidays"? The new Minister of Economic Affairs wanted to bring Taferln to the ground around Austria and write on it: Stay in the country and remain fair; it is almost Austrian treason when you travel abroad or even consume foreign goods! [[Abg. Your colleague Peter also advertises for holidays in Austria!]] Of course, Mr President. I just mean, we should understand the internal market. We should understand that this is not a one-way. Austria is a country that is externally dependent as rarely another. We need to remove the mental barriers that we have often built and not produce a sense of stump, such as: A Taferl floats into the earth, on which says: Stay in the country! or: Consummated Austrian! – This cannot be a point of a single market policy! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Especially "fine" was also when the Minister of Economic Affairs, who should know it better than anyone else, spoke of a "promoting case" of the European Union. I understand that he has perhaps gone on his own propaganda, because in Austria he is very often tried to give the impression that the European Union is actually the classic place of subsidies for everything and everyone; all of this has to be brought in. – But the other way round, we have to make it quite clear: The European Union has solidarity, it has to be promoted, and that is why we also have a commitment to the net figure, just as a country that is thanks to God on the "more richer shore" of this continent. What annoyed me particularly about this statement of the "promotional trap" was that the new Minister for Economic Affairs said it had been badly negotiated. – I ask: Who's negotiating? – Of course the government! And who is there like a Siamese twin? – The social partners! I cannot imagine that a Mr Farnleitner in his former role in the Federal Chamber of Commerce would not have had a word to say. He was there, but now he's running away from his own policy! And I think that's deplorable! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Chancellor! So strange sounds appear at the SPÖ; I would call them "neo-socialist". In the course of your election campaign, it was said that a "bollwerk" against capitalism should finally be built again. That's why I'd like to quote it here in the paper. – Others of you, in turn, say that the market must finally be "connected" again. – Well, even liberal economic constitution means that it needs framework conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Yes, of course. Especially from Austrian politicians who, for example, talk about "market chains" – and that in our overregulated country, where economies and works are being inhibited – I really don't like to hear such sounds! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A special gag is precisely when one speaks of being in the European Union on the bandage of the corporations. – There too I say: Of course, liberal economic policies want to prevent monopoly; there is a need for competition rules, a right of competition and a right of cetera. But why then these strange sounds: "the EU of the companies" – and this is calculated by a party that has boasted of it – we have heard it again in the reports today – to bring groups to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny, you're confusing something!]] No, not at all! I mean, If you bring companies to Austria, this is a good thing, and it can cost us something if it makes sense, but everything wasn't always so clear. But what about this strange propaganda that the EU depends on corporations? Why don't you let this propaganda happen? Tell me what it is! And it is that we need corporations, and we need more international corporations in Austria, we need more international economic union from Austria abroad. Again: Please let this propaganda, this old socialist tones, a propaganda, in which moods are made against the market, against capital and against international corporations! That doesn't make any sense! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This scapegoat policy really has no future! That is why I think we should work out something very clearly, and we are doing it for our side: We are talking about the European internal market, because it is and remains the opportunity to achieve a reasonable and effective economy, thus creating effective employment and social policy scope to compensate for it. We are saying that this country is open to competition – instead of fleeing back into national solutions. We say that we are opening up the Austrian economy – rather than lamenting the sale of Austria – because we know that these foreign investments are positive, that it is good for Austria's economy to invest abroad. We are talking about European solutions, such as the fight against international crime, such as the fight against black money laundering. Let us not hide behind an anonymity, just because it is perhaps very pleasant under the keyword "Austrian saving culture"! We are talking about a common foreign and security policy – and not about neutrality. We will have more to discuss tomorrow, Mr Khol. As I said, No refusal of discussion and then, at the end of the day, the Austrians are again faced with finished facts, where one then takes, passively suffering, the task of neutrality. We are talking about a European policy that is controversial. Of course, today we are faced with the difficulty that all major economic and social issues are controversial. We are in a crisis situation, and we should therefore debate things openly and harshly. In this discussion of values, we should pursue Europe's policy – but not in the form of dyeing or devastation of things, as if it did not need the major European political solution. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This makes a very important and central problem, namely employment policy, a problem that is really at the heart of the challenges as a whole. We should and must understand that people at this time of upheaval are afraid: Fear of their quality of life, even more, sometimes also fear for their livelihoods, and fear of losing their job. – This is indeed for Austria, for Europe, yes, I would say world-wide the central problem, a problem which is not so directly related to Austrian or European causes, but is a global challenge. [[Abg. Conspicuous: This problem does not solve a barrierless market!]] Yes, right, and that is why the question, Mr President, is: How are we going? That's the point! I would also like to deal with the Greens immediately, especially with regard to economic and monetary union, and with the fact that you are warning from the Greens that there is a 'chapter'. Of course, it would be better for me not to have these debt mountains, but for whom there are fathers; we must say that already. I would also prefer that we do not have the first thing at all and not at a time when there is an international economic downturn, at a time when we have to admit that Austria's accession to the European Union has also brought budgetary burdens. All of this is true, but a delay in this need for rehabilitation would not be a solution, but at most a shift, but above all a shift would lead to an increase in the problem. That is why we are left with nothing but to endure this difficult phase, to renovate, to find our way into Europe, and yet to ensure that social standards are not reduced in this country. – As said: Moving the problem meant magnifying it. That is why we are liberals on economic and monetary union, and that is why we are referring to the convergence criteria. The old Leader: A few billion schilling debt more suppresses me less than a few thousand unemployed!, that doesn't attract anymore. This old thesis, which has long been in practice in Austria, has led us to have high debt and unemployment today. So that's not a way out. I would therefore like to come to the employment policy. They speak of the Social Democratic Party very clearly about an employment union. They want to – at least mediate It gives this impression that the European Union is taking employment policy into its own hands. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrnitzky: Incorrect impression!]] Federal Chancellor! They say: false impression. – But propaganda is no different. So we're going to debate it openly, and this should be an opportunity today. So don't be quick, Federal Chancellor, but listen to me! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrnitzky: How long?]] It is first of all to ask: What will this employment union look like? What should be done under this title? And: Who's to finance this? And above all: What's new? There are clear objectives in all the contractual documents of the European Union, there are in the area of the Social Charter, in the Treaty on Social Policy of 1992 – and we acknowledge them too. I'm just wondering: What else is going to happen? We have funding in the European Union – I would say, logically – essentially for infrastructure, for labour market and education quality policy in the countries. The trans-European networks were also mentioned by you. – Everything is all right, and that can be increased. – This is certainly an employment impulse, but only very punctual, I would say. The question is: What can a European Union do beyond that? And here, I mean, you have remained guilty of an answer. Because even if we doubled the funding we have today – Austria, from all the pots, totalled 22 billion schilling between 1995 and 1999, i.e. an average of less than 5 billion per year – this would still not be a solution to the Austrian employment problem. So it would still not be a solution if we put it in comparison with the around 50 billion schilling that Austria has to spend on domestically to cover the problems related to unemployment in social policy. We believe that social security must be substantially increased in one area or another, and that is what we are talking about. That's why I'm saying: Let us not forget that, beyond these objectives, beyond the current support systems, expectations are raised that the European Union can directly create employment. - She can't! A second point is important to me in this context, since the social standards are also mentioned in the EIA. A social charter of the EIA came out yesterday, in which it is quite concrete that these minimum standards should be incorporated into the external economy. – First of all, that sounds very, very good. However, I just wonder why, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Ex-Economic Minister Schüssel, Austrian Heads of Government in the Asia region are also actively engaged in economic start-ups, so to speak, if at the same time we want to introduce these social standards as an external criterion. – I think this is a bad morale, and I would also like to warn you about it. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We want to export something there! We want to conduct foreign trade on a fair basis!]] [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] All right! Is absolutely all right, but I would like to point out to this example that one must be careful: Even if we introduce these social standards, which are also an objective of the European Treaty or the legal framework of the European Union, we must be clear about this: The increase of the minimum standards means labour costs, and this is a burden on the economy. [[Abg. It is a matter of compensation!]] Right. We need these social standards to prevent social dumping. [[Abg. That's right!]] We need to know – and this is now addressed to the Greens – that we cannot first talk about a social union before we have enabled the economy and its capacity to actually meet these social standards. That's the central point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] That, I think, should also be remembered with regard to social standards, demands for minimum standards in the European Union. We in Austria have very high standards – and we want to maintain them. For this to happen, we must be all the more effective in order to be able to afford it. And we are now again in the division of tasks between the European Union and the Austrian national self-responsibility for social policy, employment policy and so on. The crucial point is that we do not blur these boundaries between what the EU can and should do and what we are responsible for in our Republic in terms of employment and social policy. However, you are currently trying to blur this border in the election campaign – and we are resisting it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why we call for you here in Austria to create the conditions for easier economies, for better employment conditions: You're finally discovering your political willingness to reform here. The list of things you miss here, where you are behind, where you at best promised something, but didn't keep anything, this list is not ending up. For example: Flexibility of working time. What happened? - Hardly anything. What happened at the tax privilege regarding overtime? This would be important for the distribution of work. - Nothing happened. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] What about equalizing pension rights, social rights between workers, employees and officials? Nothing! What about the trade order? - Nothing goes on either. What about the shop opening? - Nothing happens! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] Mr President, my last sentence: In Austria, we should finally address the political need for reform, which we have, before trying to get rid of this major social problem in the European Union, so to speak. That would be a mistake, and we want to prevent it. We therefore call for your willingness to reform!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11398	Deputies! I hope you do not misunderstand my generosity in interpreting the speaking time. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as a result of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, the maximum speaking time for each individual speaker is set at 20 minutes and I will not have such a generous interpretation in the future. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He decided that himself!]] The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11427	Mr President. High house! The honourable Member, who is very sympathetic to me, has run into the essentially open doors here with great vehemence. . I think you have quite European concerns, but I do not actually see the difference you wanted to work out. But what I think is right is that we take the opportunity to give an overview of this debate. What has the EU membership brought us in the time that has passed since accession? – When we look at the effects from the economic side, it has been predicted that the first effect will be a clear, desirable intensification of competition intensity. This has occurred, with the effect of significantly lower inflation rates. Today, we have one of the lowest inflation rates in the post-war period in Austria, which directly benefits consumers, so that consumers, so that families and, in particular, those with the lowest incomes, benefit in particular from it. – I believe that this is a success of EU membership, which should in no way be lost in the discussion. As far as the question of employment is concerned, of course, we cannot see this page in isolation. We are faced with a global structural change. We have the phenomenon of the east opening. I have already been very concerned when Mr Haider – obviously completely unaffected by things he was supposed to learn in America this summer – pretended as if there were phenomena such as globalisation, as if there were phenomena such as the opening of the East. He has listed a lot of problem areas – well. However, it has carefully avoided providing any solutions and has reached the simple conclusion: The EU is scapegoat for everything. It would be the really relevant question, which one would have to ask seriously: What are the problems we have? Would they have been easier to resolve without accession to the EU, or are they easier to solve than a member of the European Union? I believe that the answer is clear. As a result of membership of the EU, the location conditions for Austria have improved significantly. This is very evident, for example, from the development of the company's settlements. Of course, there are companies that have moved from Austria – essentially not to other EU countries, but to the Eastern states, where they would definitely have moved – but at the same time there is a wealth of companies that have come to Austria, with centres of competence, that is, with what we need. We need it – we can do that on Don't last any time – no extended workbenches. But what we need and what we can keep, these are the centres of competence, where we can play out our technological skills, our organizational skills, as we already do – the long list has already been mentioned in part: Siemens, BMW, Grundig. An interesting development is currently taking place: the departure of high-quality companies from Switzerland to Austria – IBM, keyword Swatch. No person who is half reasonable will assume that this would have been possible without membership in the EU. It is precisely because Mr Haider has given a clear statement here, that he must be told: These are the concrete results, not these horror scenarios that he described here. To mention a number that I have just received, because it was only published by the National Bank today, concerning foreign gross investment: The net investments of foreign countries, i.e. they have already been deducted, amounted to 16.7 billion schilling in the first half of 1996, three times as high as in the whole of 1995. This is a commitment to Austria's economic location, and this is a commitment to employment opportunities and to income security for the Austrian population. That was also the reason why we so vehemently advocated Austria's membership in the EU. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to address some aspects of longer-term prospects in this debate, because I believe that precisely these longer-term prospects have so far been treated too little and too short in Parliament. I would like to limit myself to two points. The first point has already been made several times: the question of employment policy. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to strongly support the German Government in its struggle at all European levels to give more weight to employment policy objectives. This is not so obvious as honourable Members said earlier. It was Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, who for the first time introduced this issue as a concrete formulation and as a concrete mandatory objective in European policy. And one thing is very important: In the context of European monetary union, we also need to ensure that this is not only a matter of price stability – as important as it is – but also of equal consideration for employment issues. It fills me with joy and I can say proudly that it is the Social Democratic Party that has set up first-class experts for the European election precisely for economic and social issues as candidates, because we think it is so important. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Would you like the candidate's name? He's called Swoboda!]] Other parties may think otherwise: perhaps the heroic or the forestry industry, that may be already. In any case, we have set clear signals, and these signals are signals in the interest of the Austrians – all Austrians, not a small part! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not Ederer, Swoboda!]] One point that seems to me to be very important in the longer term and which has still not yet been taken into account is the ever-increasing form of tax competition, a negative tax competition, which we see in Europe and which has the clear effect of benefiting the most mobile factor, namely capital, while the more mobile labour factor is paying for it and the tax burden is increasingly shifting on it. That must be said quite openly. This can, of course, be a useful strategy for a single country, and the Austrians have also played a little part in this game. It is certainly a dangerous development for everyone together. The European Commission has proposed that economic and monetary union should be linked to minimum standards for the taxation of capital income. And I think it is very important and I would like to call on the government to take action to ensure that these proposals are implemented at the same time as monetary union. The second question, which seems to me to be of considerable long-term importance, is the aspects of a Stability Pact in order to keep public finances under control even after entry into monetary union. There are very intense discussions in which the finance ministers are far away from Parliament's considerations – considerations that are partly reasonable, partly those that seem problematic to me, for example, in the question of whether, in many cases, too little consideration is taken of the respective economic situation. In any case, the very decisive course of action on the question of the budgetary sovereignty of Parliaments, on the question of the scope for economic policy action at all. I should like to say here that at the next meeting of the Financial Committee, as chairman of my business regulation, I will make use of a discussion, a debate on current issues on this subject, because I believe that it is absolutely necessary to obtain as much critical information as possible in Parliament on developments in an area that affects our work very centrally. I therefore believe that we are in an exciting, an important, challenging phase in which we are really set aside and we parliamentarians have the right and the duty to play an active part in it. We have rightly argued that we want to go to the EU to speak as an Austrian in the development of Europe. I believe that we can and should do so in the field of employment policy and financial policy. I believe that we can also develop a broad consensus between the whole of Parliament in this direction, and I believe that Parliament can better support the government, the better Parliament is informed by the government. We must all be able to do something about this development here in Europe. In this sense, today's debate, as I believe, was also part of a policy of openness, as part of a policy of seriality, both inside and outside. I think this is a good development. We Social Democrats will continue to support and support this development.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11493	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11514	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the two fundamental sections of the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor, it was both about current topics of Austrian internal policy and about questions relating to the European Union or about Austria's interplay as a member of the European Union. My previous speaker, Mr Novotny, appealed, but not for all the negative developments in Austria, but not for the partly bad climate, always to represent the European Union as the main cause. But what has happened since the Austrian EU referendum or since EU accession? At that time, there was a significant majority of Austrians for the accession of Austria to the European Union. Based on this clear majority, this two-thirds majority of the government's clear announcements that Austria, as an EU member, wants to make a very active contribution to changing Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you were against it!]] Yes, Mr Khol, at that time we had a very different assessment of the opportunities to change Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But not the Voggenhuber!]] We see our opinion today very, very strongly confirmed, and I want to explain it to you. Mr Khol, you joined your coalition partner at the time in order to set up in the fields of ecology, security policy and economic and social Austrian accents in Brussels. And that was also what certainly moved a majority not so accepted by the Greens at that time to this yes. This climate has not changed without reason since then. Therefore, Mr Bundeskanzler, I cannot share your assessment, which you have expressed in connection with the economic climate, with the discussion on the sale of the Austrian economy here in your section, which is largely emotional, according to which this mood is mainly based. In fact, they assume that, without properly appreciating the situation, the situation is now very different from that of the Austrian people from the point of view of the referendum. But the Austrians know very well what has happened since then and what has not happened above all. And these are the reasons why the mood has changed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, both in Austria and at European level, these three major issues were addressed both by the government bank and by the previous speakers. The issue of environmental protection, ecology, also the impact on employment, concerns the issues of security policy, how peace can be preserved or produced in this Europe, and it is about the major area of social and economic policy. In all three areas, you have remained largely guilty of both promises. Neither have you pursued an active policy within Austria, nor have you tried to transfer activities to the European Union. They were very lax, domestic and European policy. I would like to make this clear to some examples. And that's why, Federal Chancellor: The change of mood does not come from somewhere, the Austrians are not emotional dreamers who do not know how to judge politics in that country. First area: Environment, environmental protection. You once again said in your present unit that you want to strengthen the ecological dimension, and you're talking about harmonisation at the highest level. In the environmental field, in an area that is very important to the Austrian population and which will become increasingly important for a modern economic policy in which jobs can be created, you have remained guilty of almost all your promises. The frameworks of environmental taxation are hardly recognizable in the Austrian tax system, and what you have introduced on additional taxes is not an eco-tax, but is like all that has been done under the title "Sparpaket", actually to stop holes. And if you look at very specific areas that concern the Austrian people in close proximity and which were important before the vote, then, Federal Chancellor, you conclude that there has been a standstill or a deterioration in these important areas. Perhaps the most obvious example: Transit traffic. They have announced defending the transit agreement, even expanding this system. You once again spoke in your unit about the cost-truth. Only in practice does it look like this – and you know that, Federal Chancellor; and I really wonder why do you write this or let it write in your unit, if you know exactly that the facts speak a different language? – that the transit traffic of the North South Directorate on the Brenner has increased by more than 20 percent, as has the pollution burden. A fifth more in no time against all your promises! And above all – again for the future: You said today in your unit that cost-truth is to be produced. – In fact, the costs have fallen, they will go down from about 70 000 S per truck to 17 000 S. You know that Austria will be sued for the toll on the Brenner, and you will pass by this hottest question! In other words, once again you have missed out on a very important opportunity here in this House to talk about facts to reveal your concrete policy approaches for the next few years. Then, Federal Chancellor, do not be surprised if this change of mood has taken place in such a short time and so clearly! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Other examples from the environmental field: You also addressed the following in your speech, but again theoretically abstract: the quality of food. They also say: Some things are being built up, the Austrian food is still good, yes excellent. – The real concern of the population, however, is the future. There is a very large European issue, and that is genetic engineering. And you should go before the 13th. In October, what the Austrian Federal Government will do to ensure food quality in the future to prevent genetically modified products coming to the markets or to ensure that they are at least clearly declared. Further facts, Mr Bundeskanzler: The health minister's language is a clear one. An up-to-date request of the Greens was made on 12 July. September answered as follows: Both Directive 90/220 and the Austrian Genetic Engineering Act do not include an active obligation on the authority to provide information on applications for entry into circulation – and so on. That means you're drawing on it: The law does not say that we have to say something to the people, so we do not say anything either. That is to say, the Minister of Health acknowledges a policy of mystery, and that in Austria, in the country where thousands of people have already presented their objections and protests against genetic release experiments in writing! That, Federal Chancellor, causes a change of opinion! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] One last thing from the environment: EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement A few months ago, a surprisingly enjoyable and surprisingly successful popular desire on animal welfare took place in Austria. Shortly before, the Austrian animal welfare movement succeeded in at least achieving, through consistent work – also in this House – that we have adopted a legislation on animal transport which is rather strict for Europe. But what has happened since then? – I address the Vice-Chancellor and the ÖVP in particular. This law is simply ignored in the federal states. The national leaders obviously do not want this law, so there are no controls and virtually no penalties. A long-standing effort by the Austrian environmental and animal welfare movement, finally a success at the legal level – and then the taste of the Austrian Federal Government! It was all literally for the cat. The law will not be implemented. Once more, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor: This is also a reason for the change of mood and not the nebulous fears of the stomach. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will probably have an opportunity to talk about the area of security policy during this part-session. In any case, your credibility is no longer high on both government parties. Klubobmann Khol has spoken out for Austrian neutrality today – a bit surprising given the recent statements of ÖVP politicians. It's more likely that the fear of the 13th is swinging. In October and before a further change of opinion in the Austrian population. However, the action of the Federal Government was different: In a small way, neutrality has been loosened, and the intrusion into the military alliances is already taking place, both in the area of the WEU and in the area of NATO "Partnership for Peace". This is no longer the pure and constant Austrian neutrality, but it is already a shortened neutrality. And that's why, Federal Chancellor: If you really think it is serious that neutrality is a good and also a proven security policy concept for the future, then guarantee it today, guarantee it before 13. In October, that value, this Austrian institution is not affected, and that, if anyone tries to do so, only the Austrian people will have to decide on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly and last: Economic and social policy. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, today's statements have disappointed me the most. Such insanity and empty phrases have been really rarely presented in this house. This is also true in the context of the budget programme that you have recently presented, which can only be understood as a democratic policy expression – it has rightly referred to by our financial and budgetary spokesman Van der Bellen. One thing is quite clear from these vague indications: The 1996 savings package, the 1996 tax package, is not the last one. However, from this nebulous numbering work, which conceals how you will reach your goals, it is very clear that the next load package will be safe. And it will include at least 25 billion schillings, otherwise your bills will all not vote. And one can imagine from the statements where it is to be shortened once again: once again in the social field, once again with those who are already almost in front of nothing today, with the emergency aid recipients and once again with active labour market policy. Also, Dr. Khol, figures and facts – and not moods from the belly. You have just said that employment has just reached a peak in Austria as never before. - That's wrong. And in fact, this is a number that should give us special thought – even in your speech, Mr. Federal Chancellor, unfortunately, this was not expressed –: For the first time – and really for the first time for a long time – not only does unemployment increase, but it reduces the number of self-employed workers. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, she's falling over the previous month. At the end of August 1996, there was a decrease of 0.23 percent or 7 315 people; compared to the previous year, August 1995, there was a decrease of 9 944 or 0.3%. 0.3 percent, i.e. in cost to the state billions, both in direct figures and indirectly caused failures, and that means infinite suffering for those affected. Ladies and gentlemen! I have mentioned these figures so precisely to show how dirty, how vague and how unspeakably today's speeches were from the government bank. And that's actually something that's suitable to cause some stupid fears. A government that can no longer recognise difficulties and at the same time present concepts of how to come out of the difficulties must not rightly hope for the trust of the Austrian population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, it is worrying that the female employment rate is even lowering. For the first time, we also have a declining female employment rate – and that in a country where the values of the Scandinavian countries or even our immediate neighbours could never be achieved. And that is, I think, an alarm signal in Austria, given the economic situation of women – the age pension for women is not even half that of men – that should wake us all up. The list of reasons why this Federal Government in the field of internal policy and European policy can no longer hope for the trust of the population can continue. Those who have taken a look at the universities these days see what the load package has led to. Students must stay in front of locked doors. Ninety thousand students can no longer be treated in a timely and correct manner by 20 officials in the evidence stations, and this trend, unfortunately, is continuing. We will therefore bring in all these points, job security, respect for social and environmental standards and neutrality, in the following motions for resolutions. Then, unlike in your vague and fun statements, you can finally show whether you think it is serious that you want to take advantage of the opportunities you have not used so far in the future, that you finally start what you want before the 12. In June 1994, Austria promised to use its weight actively to change and implement Europe. So far, we're not seeing enough signals. We hope that perhaps one or the other Member will be able to explain himself in solidarity with these Green motions for resolutions. Federal Chancellor! So far, it is no wonder and not stupid emotion that the Austrians are watching their policies in an arrogance.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11610	Mr Deputies has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11632	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not assume that this is a work creation programme of the Austrian Parliament if the club members and the President now have a telephone system. Nor do I think that Mr Haider can further describe himself as the patron saint of the workers if, like recently, he himself demands the reduction of holiday entitlements, the removal of the second year of leave, social reduction as a means of overcoming the crisis and pension reductions for workers who were often unemployed. I could continue this list. [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's not true!]] I have already attached them to the Minutes several times. [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is the untruth!]] That's the untruth? – These are your party keeper’s own words, Mr. Colleague! I'm just quoting your party officer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in today's debate, we should deal with the issue of economics and integration. I believe that the focus on these two issues – which was also drawn by the contributions of some speakers – is on the question of: Framework conditions or unrestricted and unbridled market? I understand that the former President of the State Gorbachev has once said to Foreign Minister Schultz: I'll do to you the worst thing you can do: I'll take your enemy. If we compare this with today's situation in Europe when it comes to economic debate, I personally feel that today there are often enough workers being seen as enemies, especially those workers who demand social protection rights, who also want to have their fair share in the common public assets. If, for example, Mr. Haselsteiner in a newspaper – he is quoted in "daily everything" – in terms of Sunday work means that his workers tell him that it is preferable for them to work on Sunday rather than blush at home, then that is really contemptuous. – I didn’t read a response. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You're not quoting right!]] I have only read Mr Hazelsteiner's quote in this regard. I believe that what happened yesterday in the European Parliament was a good example of how Austria behaves in Europe. If we were to know yesterday that the European Parliament's directives were adopted, ladies and gentlemen, you, as Members of Parliament, know that we did the same already in 1993 in order to ensure the same conditions for all workers, no matter what countries they come from, in Austria. It is clear that, for example, in Germany, for a very long time, there has been a debate on this question and no solution has been found yet and that even statistics say that 6,000 construction plants are at risk because they do not find equivalent conditions on the labour market. We have already taken the right steps here in 1993 and through our example we have certainly also helped to ensure that this decision was possible in the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it should also be noted that at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, the Federal Government's activities have been carried out, for example, by the end of the year and by the end of the year, which have led to the fact that, in the event of apparent difficulties related to the construction industry, a 30-billion investment programme has shown that construction unemployment has fallen. For Vienna, I can certainly see that. I believe that this was an essential contribution to how to counter it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Look You turn on the numbers, and don't always provoke them! Look If you look at the numbers, you'll see that's true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But there is no way to blur an impression in the economic policy debate: that now European stock gains – "new German" is called: Shareholder value – in the foreground. – Only recently in Austria has a good example confirmed this question: A unilateral advertisement was advertised for the launch of the stock exchange. On the side, it is pointed out that at least 25 percent dividends are guaranteed to shareholders in the next period. However, in this article, the same Director-General says: But this will cost jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind very consciously here of § 70 of the Austrian Stock Act, in which one can read that it is not only about the well-being of the company and the consideration of the interests of the shareholders, but also about the interests of the workers and the public interest by the undertakings. And I believe that it is more necessary than ever to point out this development also in Austria, and not only in Austria. They all know the example when, in the spring of the year at AT&T, due to the statement of the Director-General, they want to make 40 000 notices that the stock prices have been accelerated. This is also a question in Europe. I am glad that the Austrian Federal Government does not tire out in the efforts to achieve social integration in Europe, but not only in Europe, but also in the world, even though this appears to be extremely difficult, and that also carries it externally. However, on this point we are also dealing with the question of vocational education and training. Ladies and gentlemen! My personal request to all Members here in the house: Let's stop this ping-pong game at last! If a burden compensation is spoken of, we ask the national instructor, a fund solution. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I didn't say that!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like In your own house there are the classrooms that are financed by a surcharge of the construction industry. Why not transfer this example to other areas? If you yourself have agreed here in this House to a motion for a resolution calling for a burden compensation between trainees and non-trained entrepreneurs, please do not get rid of the taxpayer, but worry about it. In the interests of the firms that train, and the apprentices, you will be able to obtain a financing that will secure the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You may also be helped by a judgment of the Supreme Court in Germany concerning a Federal Constitutional Act. It notes: "The specific responsibility for a sufficient supply of training places is clear and the nature of the matter according to employers." And it is also justified by this – that is not uninteresting – that if employers always defend themselves against government intervention in the dual system, on the other hand, they also have to assume responsibility. - I think that should also be a little hint for us. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: They are very easy to represent!]] Read this judgment! There you will find much more arguments in this direction! In Germany, for example, employers pay a surcharge. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Should we take responsibility alone?]] Not at all! But you always say when it comes to numbers: We're not part of it! That's where you always ask for the public hand. We should find a real solution in the interests of firms providing training. We will finally find them at European level as well as in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of different workers' concepts has already been addressed. I believe that we were on the right path when the trade unions started the Fairneß action and were only recently able to pass more than 330 000 signatures on to the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] The Federal Government has promised that by 1997 the legislative measures will be supported accordingly. I would also like to make a very conscious point. One or the other will ask himself: Does this belong to the European topic? . I very much believe that it is part of this, namely the debate that is now being held on the contract of work. I leave all this unnecessary stuff aside; it has been spoken in this context of freedom and without restrictions and similar. Instead, I come back to what has always given us in this House on this question: The main issue of the contract is that we have to be concerned about the exorcism of workers from social protection. More and more practices are being pursued to get rid of ordinary service conditions and to resolve them by means of the so-called contract of work. Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant if the head of staff of a large electronics group Vienna declared three weeks ago: This is not very pleasant, because of the computer change, but I can tell you: I am actually grateful for the change, because now I only know what happens with the help of such practices in our company. For example, a large lending company says: Now we have only begun in the previous year to change our workers working in the cleaning sector to work contracts, and now you are destroying all of this and bringing it back to you. – That’s why it’s really about the escape from labour law and social law! That is why I believe that we should set up joint activities here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Why flee social law?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I should like to thank That won't be possible. The best social protection without contribution is not available! Protection must be subject to a contribution. One cannot demand the best social protection and say: Somebody pay it! – This will certainly not be the case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I believe that this is also a European issue. Because why else meet on the 21st. In October, at European level, employers and employees to find a solution on this issue? – It doesn’t seem that bad! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to address one point that is also repeatedly raised by the Liberals, namely the subject of insurance – compulsory insurance. It is a good thing that we should not wish for the results of this debate in Germany to be followed very well. There, for example, older workers are credited with public health insurance, and they are told: They are too risky for insurance. Another public health insurance institution advertises discounts on a home market so that it gets insured. – If this is the "liberality" in the health insurance sector, then it is still a hundred times better for me, we find examples in Austria of an ordinary, a social insurance policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11801	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11822	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is only too logical for the two government representatives and the speakers of the government parties to praise everything here. What I learned again today is that very divided tongue is spoken. – Mr Vice-Chancellor! I can remind you: This morning, you spoke to 100 leading entrepreneurs and industrialists in Austria. They have been made aware of many things and have painted a completely different picture there. I understand this in a sense. But at the end of my remarks, I will come to a few points that I really do not understand. I believe that, in view of this load package, the causes of many maladministrations between the package and the EU are being mixed today. There is no question at all: Much has already been said today, the self-employed approach has not been found. Neither in this load package are there any signs of this, on the contrary, we are discussing work contracts, we are discussing minimum-coss, we are discussing loss lectures that then justify you and say: A biterl will be allowed to tax the profit! If the loss is lost, the commercial will pay out of the wallet! – So imagine this in your economic policy ideas and forget that billions of investment funds for the next two years have been lost by this decision. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What's much worse: They always accuse the liberal of bringing uncertainty into the population. However, they carry them in most personally with this completely unthinked, short-term economic and social policy, which has no prospects for it. They carry the uncertainty not only into the economy, but into the entire population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The essential points have, of course, not been raised again today. Professor Horace Woody Brock from Stanford and Harvard University was just here. In the paper he writes: Innovation power: That's where the job wound lies. A Clinton study is available: Innovation is in demand, creativity is needed. What are you doing? – They promote state savings, you promote construction savings, although the whole world today knows that this is the most counterproductive to risk capital. And when we talk about risk capital, Mr Verzellnich makes a few negative comments on the introduction of the stock market. That's all you think of becoming a stock exchange, which is almost nonexistent, to a shareholder's share in Austria, which is hardly there. These are your real economic failures. It's not just that you're losing jobs today, no: We don't win any new things, that's the bad thing! In addition, we are acting internationally in a negligent manner with our theater, the debacle in connection with our credit apparatus. I'm just calling the word "CA." But there are also some other things. You can speak English, I know, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. Then you can read the newspapers in which we are represented only more than Kasperltheater and as a puppet state. And that's not what we owe freedom, but it's the consequences of your policy and this course! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals are for Europe. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Listen! Listen! That's it!]] We were the first party to do so. My fatherly friend Wilfried Gredler and everyone else with us are for Europe. We are also in favour of multicultural globalisation, Mr Deputies. But we are against the Maastricht criteria you have negotiated, because these are enough to damage Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] You're still on it, don't talk, that's not a problem! Europe as a whole has the cutting to renegotiate these Maastricht Treaties and to say: There and there are mistakes. You, too, have today mentioned the amendments that exist. Is there anything different from renegotiating certain points of contract? Changes can be interpreted in this way and so on, as is the case with the semi-full and semi-empty glass: They always show half the situation, we represent it half empty. You know: A correct representation that I am still going to speak to today will probably have to be taken into account. I believe that a number of points of the EU Treaty, the social and environmental points, transit and mining points, have often been cited. – However, I would like to give you examples from the practice: If even in Austria competition distortion via eco-dumping is still possible to a large extent today, not only in the paper industry, but also in other areas, in billions, because the Heads of State implement the laws differently, then I do not have to go to Brussels, where you are constantly antichambing and showing where transitional periods are constantly being extended in the EU countries and, of course, our competitive products return to Austria without the cost of environmental protection. The same can, of course, be used in certain areas of social dumping. We have also neglected to push for transitional periods. On the contrary, they are extended and extended [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On this point, not only should you not lie to the plenary, but you should not lie to the people either. We're a flea in Brussels. We must not believe that we can enforce our environmental standards there in the short term. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] You rarely go to Brussels, Mrs. Tichy! These are things that you as an entrepreneur have not really been particularly busy! But I'm telling you: There you can hardly enforce environmental requirements from an Austrian point of view, there you can go as a bitter, and then you get the answer from the Minister of Transport and the environmental speakers of the other countries, which means in good Vienna: The Austrians are supposed to "brow" themselves. They don't quite understand what that means, but they know what "brew" means, even in Brussels. Because we can really fry in many things there. These things, which have not been negotiated by Semperit, for example, in the EU and ultimately go to the expense of the Austrian industry, are not only documentable in this case. We are always talking about Semperit, because the Semperit case is an example of the fact that many companies, not only the car industry, have suffered significant losses in these markets, because they have relied on the statements made by the leading and still very credible personalities, such as Mr Vice-Chancellor, for me. We therefore believe that a motion for a resolution is appropriate for the rescue of Semperit-Reifen-AG. It mentions that negotiations with the EU are to be started, that under the support programmes the Semperit Research and Development Department should be recovered, that of course the Conti Group has to pay back 1.2 billion and a lot more. We believe that such flops will now be continued by co-financing the projects currently in place in Austria. – Lyocell is such a project: 2.2 billion investment, 250, 400, 600, 800 million grants, depending on whether you count European funding and Austrian funding: However, the project still does not count! And, of course, it is stupid to have a financing from Burgenland for these projects and to travel to Switzerland in order to obtain funds, and the project does not calculate itself in spite of these fundings. – I can only tell you: We're already building up some new bodies in the basement. This situation is also not improved by the construction of huge golf courses in Burgenland with EU funding. All you have to do is listen to Mr Frank Stronach, who opened the huge golf course in Ebreichsdorf on Saturday and said: This golf course is for my employment and for me for fun, but not for making money. – I can tell you: This will also be the problem of the huge golf club in Burgenland: More and more holes will be opened and stopped by the Austrian taxpayer. That's how it will be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ederer.]] However, it is very bad with the project that many companies move only ten to twenty kilometres from Schwechat to Burgenland, take their entire staff from Burgenland, and of course the project is supported by the EU. It's not just a company, I could call it a whole series, you know it yourself. Not only is the state printing with Strohal getting the promotions, but also many others who take their employees from Burgenland 20 kilometres away and disburse the promotions. – That's not how it can be meant! I must therefore say to you: It is true what Mr Farnleitner said: We're getting into a funding trap. That could happen to you. But then you should admit it and quickly fix the matter, as it actually belongs to decent people. I therefore propose a resolution on the Brussels EU funding case: The Federal Government is invited to take the fastest measures to ensure better information, greater concentration and transparency of the support measures and so on.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11905	Deputies! I'm allowed to interrupt you, please. The motions for resolutions must be read to the full, even if they are short-lived motions for resolutions. I only consider your previous statements to be an indication of the motions for resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11920	I shall now present the proposal as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11959	I would like once again to apologize for the interruption: My comment also refers to the first motion for a resolution which has not been fully read. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e11974	I will also follow up on the first motion for a resolution. I stopped at point two. [[Quoted print version removed]] I now come to the next point, which has actually met me very particularly, I must tell you. We are liberals for the EU, we are for globalisation, but we are against the Maastricht criteria, we want to renegotiate them. We talked about it in the morning. And there you said, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to my real horror: Everything is quite different with the liberals. The liberals – and you have said this today, Mr Vice-Chancellor – are in the process of initiating and supporting a popular desire to leave the EU. Of course, there was a tremendous applause on that, and a wave of sympathy is against you. [[Abg. Rossmann: Unheard of!]] You've certainly noticed that. By the way, that was the only real wave! In this wave of sympathy, I must tell you, I really have left you a little human. Because I know you as a right person. Although they are artists, very talented and probably also playful, I think that they are annoyed to such a populism, Mr Vice-Chancellor. They referred to an interview in the "Vorarlberger Nachrichten". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! There you can read the right thing. If, in this way, you do EU policy that Mr Vice-Chancellor claims such things, I can only say: This is the populism we reject! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: This is a prepotence special!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You're supposed to have a little bit of a laugh! You can laugh at yourself once! [[Complaints with the liberals.]] When you said today: The euro, if it does not come, will plunge Austria into a deep crisis, you have again heard great sympathy points in the exporting industry. They're talking about falling into a deep crisis. That is exactly the uncertainty about the population you are operating! If you're a man and not a man, you're apologizing for this procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12086	The two motions for resolutions just read have been properly tabled, duly supported and are under negotiation. Mr Vice-Chancellor is speaking on the floor. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12110	Deputies! I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can't qualify that!]] Parliamentary Prinzhorn was present today at a board meeting of the Industrial Union, where I... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: It’s about facts, not clouds!]] Please be a little more careful: If the honourable Member: Lies talk about whether someone is a man or a man, then I have the right... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't have to polemize at all!]] Show me the destiny! I'm not polishing either, I declare, and I'm not gonna let myself... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can't explain a Member of Parliament as mentally ill!]] Mr. Deputy, who is mentally ill? Who's mentally ill? Who's mentally ill? [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr Haider! Take note of the following: I have the right to talk about the government bank here, and you don't have the right to teach me! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Polemik is not your privilege! Take note of this! We don't like this tone here. If you have the power, perhaps it will be so, but not as long as the others have the opportunity to sit down with democratic means and with arguments to do so! Where are we? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] On the matter. Mr Prinzhorn has made a lie to me because I have made a very careful statement in the Industrial Union on a speech by him. On his question: why I criticise the liberals with their European course, I said: because the liberals have deviated from their previous declarations. That's completely correct: A Wilfried Gredler, also a Friedrich Peter, Broesigke and other great European politicians were always for European integration. [[Violent calls to the liberals.]] Wait! Wait! All of this is not a polemic, but a praise of the previously free integration policy. I then said: Now the situation is quite different, and as long as this European policy does not change, it will be very difficult to work together at all. Yesterday, for example, in the "Vorarlberger Nachrichten" (I have said that) an interview was to be read by the liberal Federal Party observer Jörg Haider, in which "indirect" – literal quote – "a withdrawal movement is initiated". [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Not even indirectly!]] I'll read it to you. - Then the interview has to be demented. – Title: "Does it come to EU withdrawals?" Subtitle: "Haider can imagine that, but advises the parties not to initiate it." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So!]] Then comes the article: "The frustration of the population with the implementation of the accession is estimated by FPÖ-Obmann Jörg Haider. He can therefore even imagine that economics and workers are joining forces and a popular desire to leave the EU." [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: It's in the Constitution!]] Excuse me! I have said that there is an indirect love for such a withdrawal movement. [[Abg. Dr. Haider beats his hands over the head.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a mess!]] The "free" top candidate of the Greens, Voggenhuber, even stands out and says: Yes, we should think about such a thing! - That's what I'm saying: That is where the European programme ceases! It can't be that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Lies have short legs, Mr. Vice chancellor!]] For me as democrats – and I recommend this to everyone else – is the result of the referendum of the 12th century. It was binding on June 1994. One should accept such a referendum and not call for an indirect or direct withdrawal, where the liberal leader Linser explains that this would be a blamage for Austria. By the way, I believe so. 15.4 1 [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12312	For business treatment: Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12334	It has not yet happened in this House that a clubman of a party has called a member of the government a mentally ill and a liar. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That a parliamentarian is insulted as "wirr"!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12409	I'm asking for peace! I'm going to let the record come to me – I told the officials – as soon as it's done. For an actual correction, I ask for peace! – Mr Dr. Haider. [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] Please, honourable Member. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12442	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor has made it clear, I believe, that he could not draw from any passage of the text and the printed text of the "Vorarlberg news" that I have advocated a popular desire to leave the EU. [[Call the ÖVP: Where is the actual correction?]] Therefore, this claim of him is incorrect, which we reject accordingly. [[Federal Minister Dr. Schüssel: Which one?]] The text of the speech shows that I recommend that my party not do so, but only that I have pointed out the constitutional possibilities of all Austrians – the employees, the tradesmen, the pensioners – to introduce a popular desire if they want to leave the EU. If that is already a reason for the ÖVP to make such a theatre, they have thoroughly misunderstood the state and the constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12488	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maderthaner. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the need to interrupt after 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12510	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations in the liberals and counter-calls at the ÖVP.]] Perhaps it would be possible for you to finally calm down. It's your way of always bringing vortex in.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12548	I call Mr Maderthaner. I would ask you to take this into account. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12570	I would like to highlight very clearly and objectively the situation of the Austrian economy and not to polemise how you are used to it, but to show clearly and clearly what the EU accession has brought us, what the benefits and disadvantages of EU accession are. That's why it's supposed to be. Ladies and gentlemen! After 20 months since EU accession, a first balance sheet is quite possible. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: To call Members "wirr" no one has dared!]] May I ask you to do this once...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12605	Please, honourable Member, continue! I may point out that the Rules of Procedure provide for a debate, but not in the sense of how it is being carried out here. I ask for attention to the speaker! [[Further calls.]] I ask for attention to the speaker! [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] I'm interrupting the meeting to calm down the moods.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12651	I'll start the meeting again. Ladies and gentlemen, please. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12675	In any case, I would like to try to continue calmly, and I hope that you will have so much more...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12705	I should also like to ask that the debate on the Bank be discontinued.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12721	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that we should today strive to highlight what has happened since EU accession, what we can see today after 20 months of membership of the European Union, positive and negative. I'm allowed to take stock: Under the rule, Austria's accession to the European Union has had a positive impact on the Austrian economy. The fact that there were also a number of difficulties in the transition is not a question at all. Has anyone expected a historic change in this scale to take place without any problems or difficulties? That can't be true! But if you want to agree to the people today that non-accession would be better, that the Austrian economy would be better, then I must say: This, in turn, is an attempt to present the facts in the wrong light. Mr Haider, you have today referred to the situation in Switzerland. I was in Switzerland about ten days ago, I also had the opportunity to talk to the current President Delamuraz, and therefore I know the mood in Switzerland. Let's compare the numbers: We Austrians have 0.7 percent economic growth, and Swisss have 0.1 percent. The amount of investment in Switzerland has fallen to a fifth within five years, and the entrepreneurs are extremely uncertain there and say they would like to see some of the Austrians who are a few steps ahead of them in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Who has the strongest currency?]] This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, and we should say that today, in particular, we should say this to the people of Austria. Without EU accession, we would not have such high investment figures and so many jobs in Austria today. Because you're saying it's gotten worse. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the time has become even harder, you have to know that. But one thing is quite certain: If we were not with the EU, the situation in Austria would be quite different, much more negative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We would not have an inflation rate which has been the lowest since 1988, which is below 2%; it has fallen to 1.6%. This is also a consequence of EU accession, which was clearly carried out by colleagues Khol, who also have an impact on consumer prices, which is a real advantage that we could only achieve by joining the EU. There is no doubt that competition has become tougher in almost all areas, but the market has increased, which is why we can see positive results from EU accession in this case too. The border controls, ladies and gentlemen, have also been removed. Today, in the field of goods transport, it is much easier to get from one country to another. This has done away with a lot of costs. Consignment camps could be left open. All of this is a positive consequence of EU accession. You know that before accession to the EU, we constantly had problems with the disadvantage of finishing wages. This, too, has been eliminated by EU accession and is therefore positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria's trade in goods in the EU neighbouring countries has increased by 11 percent, including a success of EU accession. Of course, we can also participate in public contracts. Of course, trade and commerce are not a one-way road, and of course it is also possible for our neighbours to participate in public invitations to tender in Austria. But we have the opportunity and the opportunity to participate there. Austria has become much stronger in the negotiations with third countries. There can be no mention of the small dwarf mentioned here, because we have a say like any other large participant state. That too is positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also participate in all research and development projects. Figures show how many research projects are currently being developed by Austrian participants. This is a multiple of what we had before joining the EU. In addition, the Eastern Europe programmes, the PHARE programme, the TACIS programme. All of this has been of great interest to Austrian entrepreneurs. So far, projects have been well over 110 million...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12770	Mr President, I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12786	I'll be right back to the end anyway. To sum up, I can say: Today, we should strive to achieve an honest balance, in which we show positive and negative results. Only in this way are we able to shape the future as we need it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12816	Mr Maderthaner! May I ask if you are at the end of your remarks? You would have a remaining speaking time of about 13 minutes. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Yes!]] Thank you. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Dr. Peter Kostelka, Rosemarie Bauer, Doris Bures, Johann Schuster, Gabriele Binderand comrades on the protection of our children (280/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12870	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the negotiation of the two declarations, and we are entering into urgent treatment of the self-employed motion for a resolution 280 A (E). In the meantime, given that he has approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12917	I give the floor to Mrs Fekter as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 Rules of Procedure must not exceed the speaking time 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e12941	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister Bartenstein! Minister of Justice! High house! It is a very sad issue, which is now being debated. The headlines on tragic murders and child abuses in Belgium, which we had to read in the summer, have all affected us. But I was particularly horrified when, shortly after, headlines from Austria filled the media on a similar subject, and I felt that, as some of my colleagues, as I could already know, we sometimes do not set the priorities properly in this House. Children's pornography, which usually remains hidden, is far more represented by us than we have so far wanted to realize, and we have given far too little attention to this problem here in this House. Or do you not think that the priorities are a little distorted if we have obstructive debates of objections that lead to nothing that makes no sense at all, but take time, or do you not think that the priorities are wrong when, for example, we discuss animal welfare ten times more often than child protection? In order to ensure that the priorities for the EIA are clearly on the table, we made a urgent request and several proposals for initiative in the first plenary session after the summer break in order to improve the protection of children. We want to take appropriate measures as a matter of urgency. In fact, child protection is a priority for us not only in view of the scandals today, but also in the future, in our entire parliamentary activity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We think it is urgent that the sanctions should also be tightened. We have submitted an own-initiative proposal on criminal provisions – § 207, child pornography. In § 64 we want to standardize an addition to sex tourism. We also want to dramatically increase the penalties for those serious acts in which child pornography serves to acquire the perpetrators' money. Especially strange was the discovery of the Austrian cases: I do not understand that detection journalism works more efficiently than the executive protects our children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is necessary to clarify what the executive can do, what it is allowed to do, and to remove legal uncertainty specifically in relation to hidden investigation. We must also respond to the international networking of the perpetrators and buyers in the porn business. In the period from 27 to 31. The first World Congress against the sexual exploitation of children took place in Stockholm in August, and the action programme adopted there must be implemented as quickly as possible. At the initiative of our Vice-President Schüssel, the EU adopted an action programme to combat child pornography and protect children and to implement the Stockholm resolution at European level. Ladies and gentlemen! The urgency of this issue shows that today, at the initiative of the European People's Party, the European Parliament has also adopted an action programme and has adopted a resolution at midday, mainly on international cooperation, but also on the creation of a central reporting point for missing children. We also need to meet the new technologies. Child pornography on the Internet is as good as unlimited. There are already some advances from other countries to investigate the perpetrators on the one hand, but on the other hand also to create access restrictions. A single country will remain unsuccessful, since there must be international cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Non-procedural legislation, my much revered Ladies and gentlemen, the urgency of the problem makes it necessary to fight against any violence, against any abuse done to our children, efficiently and quickly. In 1993 we discussed in depth the problems of child pornography in this House and introduced the criminal record of § 207a. It is now necessary to learn the results and to analyse the concrete experiences of them. Federal Minister! In our motion for a resolution, we ask you to report on how the proverbial practice has gone about § 207a and what experience you have had with these provisions, in particular with the Pornography Act, which is of course also to be seen in this context. High house! However, as mentioned earlier, it is urgent to clarify what can be identified in the current legal situation. The security authorities need to know whether they are moving on legal ground, and they must be allowed to do at least as much, if not more, than to reveal journalism. I assume that the legal situation is already such that the executive would have been able to do what the journalist has done for a long time. Unfortunately, this has not happened. In our motion for a resolution, we ask both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to examine clearly whether the provisions of § 25 of the Criminal Procedure are sufficient and whether the possibilities of security authorities in the context of the hidden investigations lead to an efficient success or whether there is a need for legislative action. The political majority for the use of the instrument of a hidden investigator is certainly given in this House. We've already taken this from the media. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, there has not been a concrete proposal from the Ministry in this regard. However, I have read your comments in the media that you are in principle not negative about this instrument. In the final point of our motion for a resolution, we ask the Minister of Justice to examine in the international context the possibilities to limit child pornography in the future in the Internet. I know that in the Federal Republic of Germany an approach that a federal country has started has failed. However, I also know that the Netherlands already knows rules and legal standards in this regard, which look more promising. The Stockholm conference has also adopted an action programme on this subject, and the EU's intention is to work more internationally in this area. My dear colleagues! I hope that we can have a broad agreement on our urgent request. Mrs. Colleague! I assume that we are drawing a line on the question of child pornography. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But also the ladies!]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen too. It's obvious to me as a woman. I don't depend on a few words. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me add, however, that the motion for a resolution alone does not do so: Child protection must be complete. That is why we have today also tabled an own-initiative proposal to tighten the criminal regulations, and I think that it is far more serious to standardise a new claim for compensation for the disease suffered. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is for the first time that we are in favour of more immaterial compensation for a victim, which is not provided for in our legal order, in damages law, to this extent. I believe that these loathsome acts against our children, but also rapes against abused women, must also be made in the form of compensation for the harm suffered by the perpetrators, for the damage suffered by the soul. In fact, it is according to our current right of compensation that only injuries of the body lead to pain, and if there is not really a visible injury of the body, then no pain allowance can be required, but only the replacement for any treatment costs. This is not satisfactory, and I believe that we can differ from the principle of compensation for material damage only in these restricted cases. I believe that this is justified by child protection. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a legal gap. In connection with the Linz child pornography, a law gap has appeared in the criminal code: For those perpetrators who represent young people between 14 and 18 years of age pornographically, do not abuse in the sense of sexual acts, but use them for porn films, whether by making porn films out of them by means of cutting and film tricking techniques, there is no criminal provision. We have the paradoxical situation that although these young people are not allowed to buy porn films, because there are laws on the protection of young people, they are very likely to be involved when they are over 14 years old. From my point of view, this is a law gap that can be closed. It is the perpetrators to punish the young people over 14 years of age for pornographic representations and abuse them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have therefore tabled a request on this subject today. Unfortunately, we have not yet received any approval from our colleagues. But I believe that the problem is so virulent that, when we discuss this issue in committee, we will be unanimously represented in the view that this law gap should be closed. I am convinced, however, that we also need to discuss other legal gaps which we must close in the area of child protection, but these problems are already so clearly on the table that we have already put forward our request and are already under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! The protection of children in this House – not only with the EIA, but with all the political groups! – much greater attention is paid, and this must be the top priority.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13017	To deliver an opinion, the Federal Minister for Justice has now been informed. - Please, Minister of State. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13038	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are moments when a piece of social reality is exposed that frightens us and devastates us, which we do not want to perceive or even push away. In view of the recent events that are particularly repulsive to the discussion today – not only abroad, unfortunately also in Austria – we have to ask for the causes of the incomprehensible, unbearable and look for orientational standards and remedies. Many believe to find them in the criminal laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Certainly criminal law must also make a necessary contribution to solving the problem. However, this is not enough and is not always more unproblematic in the practical application. Even because law enforcement is often too late and criminal law is only a function of ultima-ratio, we need to look at the whole thing. Above all, we must strive to say the struggle to silence and look away! The dark fields and grey areas of sexual manipulation and the abuse of young people must not be a taboo of society, nor should they be left to the police and to the justice alone for illuminating and breaking through. We all, especially relatives, neighbors, kindergartens, teachers, doctors, social workers, are called to be attentive and sensitive. Children need funding and understanding to build confidence that is almost always the prerequisite for successful intervention by state institutions. Children must be taken seriously, especially as independent and vulnerable people. Against this background, let me make a few comments on the legal situation – de lege lata and de lecht ferenda – in the light of my basic attitude. First: Legal and legal considerations also need a holistic and not just a point of view. This is why administrative and judicial law, family and youth welfare law, country youth protection law and criminal law as well as the right to compensation for damages should be considered. Secondly, The core area of the criminal protection of children and young people is not, for example, the criminal provisions against pornography, but the threats of sexual punishment with their substantially higher criminal rates. Even if we do not lose sight of the links between demand and supply, it is primarily a question of resisting sexual acts on children and sexual manipulations at the expense of young people, of limiting the many dangers to the development and maturing of children and young people, without at the same time hindering their individual development. This certainly requires sensitivity and eye-to-eye. The use of criminal law in this area must be a matter of priority and may also be a matter of reluctance in order to avoid further damage to the victim and not stigmatizing. The legal instrument in Austria has been expanded from this point of view in recent years. The in-depth discussion between 1992 and 1994, which did not end as much as we had in the judicial department, is generally remembered. In the end, it only led to the creation of the 207a StGB, which included the possession of child pornography machinations in the pönization. With the creation of legal conditions for the gentle, contradictory hearing of children already in the preliminary proceedings, in a secondary room, by a child psychologist, using video cameras, the law of criminal proceedings allowed the child to give up its later, traumatic appearance in the main public proceedings. These important improvements in our legal system and other relevant legislation have recently found international recognition at the World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children in Stockholm. For some time now, the Government's draft law on criminal law amendment has been in the High House, which proposes two further steps in this field: the creation of specific threats against exploitary tow, which are also used to counter new forms of trafficking in women and children, and a modern revision of the current situation of the withdrawal of a minor from the power of the rightful person, which, above all, aims to give priority to the protection of the child or young people, if necessary also to his own parents and legal guardians. Finally, I would like to refer to the draft law on protection against violence in the family, which is also available to the National Council, which is intended in particular to bring with it the security police direction of the violent person and an increase in efficiency in the area of interlocutory order. I very much welcome the fact that the joint initiative proposal by the two government parties, drawn up in conjunction with the judicial body, also contains the provision that I am calling for a right of pain in cases of sexual abuse. I believe that we can thereby reorganise the most unfair legal situation in this area without prescribing a reform of the IMP. I also believe that the proposed increase in penalties in the 207a StGB's case will not only have a signal effect, but also that they will enable more effective action by law enforcement authorities, especially against commercial trade in pornographic material. As far as the question of so-called sex tourism is concerned, I would like to begin by pointing out with clarity that the public opinion that foreign countries of Austria cannot be pursued domestically is already impermissible for the law in force. According to § 65 StGB, such acts are now more punishable, but in accordance with the law of the state of the crime. Only in so far as there are only minor relevant deviations in a few countries, such as with regard to a lower minimum age for sexual acts, will the already envisaged addition of § 64 StGB fill any gaps. The real problem of the persecution of the sex tourists lies, of course, in the difficult conditions in the countries mentioned, in the economic poverty, in social dependence and in the shortcomings of the persecution there. These conditions can hardly be influenced by legal measures in Europe or isolated in the Austrian legal situation. A successful fight against cross-border crime requires equally cross-border cooperation between law enforcement authorities. In a Europe of open borders, it is therefore also necessary to intensify and accelerate all forms of criminal police and judicial cooperation. In this direction, the Republic of Austria is contributing to the ongoing efforts under the third pillar of the European Union, in particular to the effectiveness of the Europol Convention and to the extension of the other multilateral and bilateral instruments, especially to our neighbours in the East. Special problems for law enforcement are known to arise from the accelerated globalisation of communication possibilities, keyword "Internet". The judicial body supports the creation of a central body for reporting illegal conduct of such electronic media – not only child pornography, also Nazi propaganda and the like – such as the model of the Netherlands. This would provide an starting point for an explicit legal obligation on providers to ensure the elimination of such illegal network content, where appropriate, to expect criminal consequences. We must, of course, be aware that a comprehensive solution to the problem of the worldwide transport of criminal content can only be found on the basis of appropriate international agreements and standards. What is happening to today's § 25 StPO, i.e. the covert investigation by, for example, a sham purchase, I would like to point out that it is recognised that the issues associated with the so-called sham purchase, in particular of addiction, and other forms of hidden investigation by the security authorities institutions, beyond the existing summary regulation of the Security Police Act, need a clear criminal procedural legal basis. On the one hand, this is about manageable and efficient rules for criminal police action, on the other hand, about setting aside borders to prevent the unwanted exploitation of such special investigation measures, but also about preventing civil servants from getting involved in the criminal scene. In detail, difficult legal issues are certainly to be solved. It is no coincidence that this has only been achieved in very few countries and that it is usually only in practice or in agreement between justice and security authorities that areas of action and borders are lost. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is the sham now allowed or not? – A clear answer!]] - I'll be right there. The same applies to the case law of the respective Supreme Courts. The development is internationally in the river. In Austria, a restrictive interpretation of § 25 StPO, which was found by common accord already years ago, was found to be a provisional but largely practical basis for the work of law enforcement authorities. There is agreement with the internal resort that the solution taken does not apply only to the area of the purchase of addiction. Furthermore, as I have already mentioned, a legal system is desirable and is also planned in the context of the reform of the criminal procedure, but not feasible in the short term in a few weeks. Apart from these fundamental considerations, there is currently no need for further clarification of the legal situation, possibly in the form of discharges or the like, from the point of view of both departments. Our position is well known to all parties involved. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So is the light allowed?]] Yes, if it is carried out in the same way as we imagine in the addiction area, I see no reason at all to extend it to other areas of similar nature. Of course, one must be aware that provocation is not allowed, but the apparent response to offers, as it was the subject of the situation quoted by the honourable Member, is at least covered by the rules adopted, the so-called Foregger Doctrine. The discussions of the last days and weeks have also made it clear that the Austrian sexual criminal law, which dates back to the 1960s, does not consistently meet today's requirements in its design. This is not just about a revision to today's understanding of the protection of property, which has already been initiated with the new criminal law in 1989, but about the effective fight against new forms of sexual exploitation, such as in the area of prostitution or international trafficking in women. From today's point of view, there is also the question of whether there is sufficient criminal protection against subtle forms of sexual exploitation or whether there are margin zones and gaps to be closed in this respect. A thorough review of sexual criminal law will be carried out through cooperation with lawyers, child psychologists and social workers. An interdisciplinary working group to be set up by me will take up this examination without delay and submit legislative proposals. It can and must not be a matter of momentary or occasion legislation, but of a serious development of the legal system within the meaning of the proven principles of a balanced judicial policy, which is already in the interest of Austrian youth and in the interest of the Austrian rule of law for consensus and objectivity. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13093	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, according to business rules, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, but that each club has a speaking time of 25 minutes. I would also draw attention to the fact that the order of the speakers according to § 60 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and not, in exceptional circumstances, as provided for in paragraph 2. 4, as would be the case with a urgent request. Mrs Apfelbeck is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13121	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs Fekter! It would be nice to follow your words, too. However, the current urgent request does not contain such a request at all. An increased punishment or the like is not included in this request at all. But let me look back: In 1991 I held an information event in the House on child pornography, because I wanted Members to know exactly what lies behind the word 'child pornography', namely the most common, the most brutal disgrace of our children, so that Members also know what they are voting on. Some of the Members – they are still sitting in our ranks – have cried. Some have become ill, and they have had to leave the hall. In 1994, when this law was passed, everything was forgotten, the suffering and the torments of the children. Coalition pressure was better for them, was more important to them. And today's request is not worth the paper he's written on. I simply do not understand that you have made such a request, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this request, in view of the well-known facts to the Minister, they commit themselves to refer the matter to the National Council, to report to it how the courts in Austria judge. No word in your application to protect children from rape. Ladies and gentlemen! This request is not even worth your lip commitment to the protection of our children! And I'm asking you: Who do you want to protect here: the children or the perpetrators? The Socialists were always concerned about protecting the perpetrators. The victims were always indifferent to them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The victim, the abused child, just remains left. The perpetrator receives a ridiculous punishment, for the victim one has not even trained, sensitive judges and hearing officers and the like. A gentle hearing could be requested. Only, who knows, ladies and gentlemen? We therefore call for the following: It is time to give priority to the victims. I call for mandatory legal assistance throughout the procedure, i.e. arms equality for perpetrators and victims. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition to the prison sentences, fines should also be imposed, with this money not for the benefit of the state but for the children. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federation should then double this money just as the Austrians donate for crises abroad, if not triple. That should be worth our children. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, the Liberals are putting in place a motion for a resolution by Mr Applebeck and Mr Haller, which I will or have already carried out on the most important points: Education should be done in schools and kindergartens. As a result, possible victims and their siblings and friends could be encouraged to share and subsequently help and help themselves. Children should be prepared for such dangers and should be informed of how they should behave in the event of attempted sexual abuse. For this, I believe that a priority programme in the media, especially on television, is the most effective and effective. The crime scene – and the family is often the crime scene – should be reached directly, and above all it should be uprooted its environment and stimulated by the civil appeal. The "TV Castle", ladies and gentlemen, doesn't come from an Austrian! Psychologically best made spots at the best time of broadcast should not then take into account the living room comfort of the citizens, because no one takes account of the abused, tormented children. Child pornography, possession, production and distribution, is currently being dealt with at the District Court – from the law as well as honorary insults or black driving on the subway. We demand a shift to the federal courts. This would increase the importance of the offence, and it would therefore also be more serious by the authorities, and the deterrent effect on potential perpetrators might thus also be increased. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Social Democrats too must finally note that children also have a soul and that child injury is murder, murder of their souls. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Children suffer from a rape all their lives, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition, laid the foundation stone in 1994 with your consent to punish child pornography so mildly, that further children were and will be damaged. For you cannot tell me that you did not know what the possession of child pornography means, which you have here in the house with only six months and sales and production with only one year of criminal framework. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We made an amendment back then and tried to punish the property by up to a year and manufacture and distribution by up to three years. You can't tell me that you didn't know that children had to be damaged, tormented and abused before they could be produced in a horrific way. And I hope it's clear to you what you've done to the children through your mild, perpetrator-protective law, and what you've done to them through your way of looking at it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13254	I declare that the motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Applebeck and Mr Comrades on combating child pornography has been submitted in writing and is therefore under negotiation. According to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure have been read out the essential points. I have the reproduction and distribution. Furthermore, this application is also printed in accordance with the Stenographical Protocol. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13336	I now give the floor to Mrs Rosemarie Bauer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13361	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this House! If I had not experienced it myself, we would not have fought side by side, Mrs Apfelbeck, I would have believed that it was a completely foreign person here and would have talked about something that was new to me in the allusion and in the accusation that we had been discussing in the years after 1990, especially in 1993, in which we women, including the colleague Traxler of the SPÖ, who is no longer here today, were able to raise awareness of this House in such a way that today's crime situation could be defined or the legal situation achieved. Many have joined this. It is such an abominable act, and it is so much suffering and such a loathsome crime to children that I am deeply shaken that we have this problem here just a few years later. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The value of a society can be measured by how it deals with the weakest members of its group – and these are probably the children. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it's too little. We need to take protective measures. And if I now hear that formalisms should be crucial to the fact that one cannot agree, then I think this is an excuse, ladies of the Freedom Party, my dear ladies. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'm just talking to Mrs Haller and Mrs Applebeck, all the others weren't in the house yet in 1993. We have long had a much broader basis for cooperation against these crimes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haller: such a waschwashi!]] All of us, ladies and gentlemen, were shaken. There is a saying that is very common in Austria: As long as nothing happens, nothing happens! This proverb has become too true once again, because we are all upset by the terrible crimes committed in Belgium, the Czech Republic and, unfortunately, also in Austria. My previous speakers have already referred to this. And today, as then in 1993, we were again wondering: How can it be possible for journalists to reveal these things rather than the competent security authorities? Mr. Minister! I would like to thank you very much for always giving us, as Minister of Justice, your support for all the tough discussions and the struggle for a new legal situation – and finally this crime was the criminality of possession of child pornography, completely new land that we have entered here – and that problem has also been discussed very widely. I thank you for this, Mr. Federal Minister. However, I do not understand the words you have found on the basis of our request. However, it is contained in the resolution. We would like to ask you, together with the Minister of the Interior, to reach agreement on the subject of § 25 StPO and to answer the question clearly: Is it possible to carry out this detection, is the legal situation and is it sufficient to address these crimes? Are we going to do this, or do we need new, tighter regulations here too? That is a very blatantly important question for us. The question is: How can such crimes happen in Austria? And also the question: Why has this actually become known through the cases abroad?, pushes us up and needs a solution and a clear answer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that, as with environmental issues, violence does not stop at our borders, that many fears that there are links abroad, foreign children are brought abroad, Austrian children are entitled to exist. Unfortunately, this is only too strongly confirmed by God. Therefore, I think it is very important that we work together in this field in an international context and, above all, find a regulation on how to handle violence in the area of the Internet. This is certainly a difficult and sensitive issue, and we have already heard from the discussions in Germany in 1993 that the experience is not large and that the problem is particularly sensitive and difficult to solve. I mean, we can't even look beyond these things, but we have to think more about them and look for international ways to offer solutions here. With regard to this international cooperation, I would like to thank our Vice-President Wolfgang Schüssel, who was responsible at the EU Foreign Ministers Conference for inviting the EU Commission to draw up an action programme on how to address these loathsome crimes in the context of the EU. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the victim has the highest priority. It's about mental injuries, you can't say that often enough. It's not just about physical damage, it's about a horror for these children, it's about something hard out of the thought of eradicable. And you have to say very openly: You don't know if these victims can ever lead a normal sex life again. The damage is immeasurable, and therefore the protection of victims is so important or so necessary that pain money is paid to these victims – and that is to be new land – for an immaterial damage, even for any help. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that we have tried to ensure that the victims can declare that they can articulate themselves but do not have to do so in a courtroom, but that they have other possibilities. We have already made this regulation in § 162a GStPO, which is extremely important. But it is also important that we raise awareness of the courts themselves, so that they address the victims more. But there is also a very special problem, and this is also brought to me by the people. We all wonder that mothers often do not have the courage to seek help when they know that a child is abused in their own family. For example, I know a case where pediatric gardeners have doubted how to express themselves and whether their suspicion is correct. They then finally addressed the mother, who then broke out in tears and said: Thank God who helps me and I can even talk about the matter. I didn't know where to look for help. That is why it is important and I am very grateful to the two ministers Bartenstein and also Gehrer that, in their areas, whether in the field of family associations or also in the school sector, they will be able to support those people who are actually observers, who on the one hand have a more trained eye and on the other hand can also know and help, should confirm the suspicion that is apparent in their field. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not an empty word when we say: Children are the highest good. I would not have thought that in 1996, just before the turn of the millennium, we should deal with such a sad chapter. The fact is that. I think it would be too cheap to beat political change out of this sad chapter. I mean, we should all stand together and find rules here that actually help those who need our help and who, in fact, cry out for help: these are the victims, these are the children! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] [[16:43]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13428	I would like to inform you that Mr Magistrate has the power to do so. Schweitzer according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee to further examine the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family in connection with the illegal export of plastic waste – it must be said: Transport of plastic waste – through Austria. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. In accordance with this provision, debate and vote shall take place after completion of the agenda. Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13457	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! There are people who say there has always been sexual abuse of children, and also such people who make money with their arrogance. Today there are mostly more people who claim that in Austria every third to fourth girls and every seventh to eighth boys are or have become victims of sexual violence. At least one thing stands firm for me: A society that is unable and unwilling to protect its children has already given up. In this context, I note one thing: The government parties feel that it is a concern to defend the children before elections. We liberals have been fighting for years. Our requests have always been ignored and rejected, and only under the pressure of recent events has a urgent request been made by the government parties, which is probably extremely urgent in the problem, but from the solutions – and I say that loud and clear – is micky and imaginative. It has only a procrastinating effect. Not even a time frame for the completion of these investigations is specified. I can only say to myself: I am extremely disappointed by this proposal, really disappointed, after all the full-fledged announcements that the politicians of both government parties have been reading on this issue in the media in recent times. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am also completely disappointed by the statements made by my previous speakers from the ÖVP, who present here an alleged concern and then make themselves available for such a urgent request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For me, however, this development is not particularly surprising. Nor is it surprising that one was not prepared to discuss the causes of this development quite consciously by my previous speakers. But these reasons must be discussed if we really want solutions, such as the abuse of the families, and this is partly due to Austrian politics, or about the low presence and uncertainty of the parents – one could have opposed it, or about the ignorance of the parents towards their children. But it was socially desirable, in the area of this laissez-fair education, to also evaluate sexual free movement differently! One should also discuss the issue of moral values, such as the responsibility we have not only towards our children, but certainly to them most, but also to mutual responsibility. I am referring to the way forward, as the Federal Minister has also called it. These causes must be addressed if, everywhere, the reputation for more stringent laws, after more therapy, for more victim protection becomes loud. However, as long as it is so in Austria that teachers, youth offices, executive bodies will pass on information they will receive, if at all, late that doctors will still not be stopped to report that they will be returned in § 84 para. 1 has always misinterpreted an existing exception to the obligation to display – consciously or unconsciously, I do not want to judge this here, but there is only this one exception, and this is not applicable in this case – if one still does not show the perpetrator at first and then if they are taken into account with a low level of punishment, as long as it is so that one treats the whole more as a cavalier crime and does not wonder the loss of earnings and pleasure for the perpetrators when they are already held responsible. Then, too, one will not have to check the ruling practice of the courts. If Mr. Federal Minister If we have been told by a liberal in a request that there has been no information in the event of the abuse of a 17-year-old Turkish, he has been misinformed – perhaps he has not been told the truth. There has been information – we have researched – but they have not been passed on by the executive.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13502	Excuse me. Mrs Dr Schmidt! I would like to point out that, as President Fischer said, the talks at the Bank of Ministers should be kept as restrictive as possible. Thank you. Please, Mrs Haller.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13521	It is very significant that Mrs Schmidt is trying to get the Minister into a conversation while I am talking. - Yeah, I think so. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Unheard of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A conspiracy!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But I don't want to have the speaking time taken. Our speaking time is very limited. We liberals have tabled a motion for a resolution which has something quite different in content, aimed at better prevention aimed at a level of arms for victims and perpetrators, as ultimately the children's and youth lawyers call for, for example, professional victims, assistance to private representatives, increased training of experts and judges. However, we also want to, and I recognise, increase the criminal framework for the production and distribution of child pornography, i.e. for those people who still make money with this crime. There must be no penalty for sexual offences! It's not a cavalier crime! The French have certainly thought something about it when, in March 1994, they introduced into their law a life-long safekeeping of sexual drivers. So we would certainly not be there alone with a strengthening of the laws in this area in Europe. However, we also call for the beginning of the limitation period only after the full-year period of the victim. We are also going to conform with the children's and youth lawyers. Above all, however, we demand a complete return to the obligation to display without exceptions. It may not be that this offence is exposed to the arbitrariness of teachers, social workers et cetera and to the assessment of whether or not they feel that this is an admissibility. To conclude: I believe that what has been decided today with this request from the government parties is really, if at all, just a drop on the hot stone, but it does not benefit the children concerned at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13578	Mrs Bures has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13600	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually concerned that Mrs Haller himself is useful to this sad issue, which is real for many children, in order to beat political capital out of it, and the only proposals that are raised, for example, in connection with the obligation to show, are a return to grey periods and therefore, in no way, can they be made in this form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to return to the subject of sexual child abuse and child pornography, which has received a lot of sad public in the last few days, but is only a cruel and loathsome tip of an iceberg, namely the iceberg of all the violence against children and the powerlessness and powerlessness that children experience compared to adults – in various forms. For a long time, these horrors that were done to children were ignored. They took place behind locked doors, and today many say they knew nothing about it, it was unknown to them. We have shown, at least since 1992, at least with the parliamentary activities we have set up, that there is this thriving market, which is a lucrative business for such business makers, with child pornography, that uninformed advertisements are published in newspapers where child pornography is offered. At the time, it was the report "Knospe password", which was presented to us here. The response was that we also punished the possession and exchange – and this also required a longer discussion – of child pornography. I believe that it is still time for further action to be taken to combat this loathsomeness. It is therefore a matter of concrete measures to help victims. The first point I've made is the area of sex tourism – a topic that is openly discussed in in innhouses, where it is smiled, where it is told whether one has spent his vacation in Thailand or the Philippines and how well there are children and women there and what great holiday experiences one had, which may also be demonstrated with holiday photos. I think, and that is the way we shall take, that these sexual offences, even if they are committed abroad, must be condemned under Austrian law. A very essential signal is that these perversions must not take place in Austria or in a country where, because of the misery that exists in that country, children's rights are trampled with feet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also applies, of course, to child pornography produced and widely used abroad. This ugly business that's being run there is an international one. Therefore, the judicial system must not have any limits either. Secondly, the increase of the criminal framework for the production and dissemination of child pornography. That's a signal of how disgusting this crime is on the one hand and on the other hand, with what serious consequences it has for the victims. In the future, however, it will also be necessary, in principle, to have a discussion on the all known misunderstanding of the criminal framework in the case of violence or sexual offences on the one hand and in the case of property offences on the other. I therefore think it is necessary to take further measures to ensure that we quickly set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to discuss these issues and to put on the table proposals which can be decided by the end of the year. The increase in the criminal framework can only be one aspect. It is equally important to prevent children from becoming victims of male perversion. Everything must therefore be done to destabilize sexuality. There were already laughs about the sex case here, about sex lessons at the schools. But this is closely linked to it. It's not about moralization. It must no longer be possible today to say that this is happening in the family, that does not matter to anyone, that is happening behind closed doors. We have already given signals here that this cannot be accepted, even if it is done behind closed doors. We've taken steps against rape in marriage. We are involved in this, and we also have the obligation to interfere when children are disgraced behind locked doors, beaten and soul murder committed to children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We would go the wrong way if we were to set an age under the title "Protection for Children". Then again, adults define the age from which children are allowed to live their sexuality with each other. It is not about raising protection ages and then criminalizing 14 years of age who want to live out their sexuality at the age of 18. It doesn't protect any child from sexual abuse. Protecting children can only mean: equiping them with rights. It must not be the case that we are again deciding a law where we define what is good for children, but they must have rights! Since it was also said here that they are the weakest in our society, I ask: Let us make them more powerful than they are at present – that is the only way that needs to be taken! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we also have a great commitment to the victims. That measure, where there is to be compensation for damage and treatment costs, is also a pain benefit, I think, is a very welcome point. With regard to the Committee of Inquiry, which we should set up in order to get more results quickly, I believe that it will be necessary to develop models of how children can take care of themselves. Children need role models. As long as adults look away, do not react when violence prevails when children are violently committed, we are a bad example. Children need to learn how to get away from this martyrdom. Since we know today that very many children who have gone through this fate can in fact never talk about it, it cannot be that with the few who sometimes make it – at the latest when they are grown up – the act is delayed. The limitation period for these acts must be extended, and it must only start to run after reaching maturity. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, it is also about addressing new technological developments. I would therefore like, not only in the field of child pornography, but also in connection with the abuse of the Internet, to make the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13737	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Graf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13761	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! We are all, of course, still under the impression of the recent past in these matters, which ultimately lead to this debate today. In spite of all this, I must express my real disappointment and also explain how today's day is going on stage in the matter of child abuse. Originally, the liberals with the initiatives also agreed with the Coalition Government, today with the new instrument of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. with a urgent request for this really urgent problem to be dealt with. However, after we were then presented with the initiative of the Government, namely this motion for a resolution, we had to recognize that it in no way corresponds to a urgent request as provided for in the Rules of Procedure in § 74a, according to which the National Council may express its wishes about the exercise of execution by such an instrument. That is not the case. For what does the coalition really have in mind with this request? What is being done to the Minister – there are even three ministers here – so there are no cost and effort to lure ministers here to share something with them? Finally, with a motion for a resolution tabled by the Minister, two reports and a clarification on § 25 StPO. Now I do not understand that I have a special access to the Minister for Justice, but one thing I can imagine: that even in the last four weeks I have been able to do these three things, which the coalition is calling here today, with a telephone call from the Minister and not just to take off a show and deal with this subject more or less in a pre-election hit. It is not, after the coalition, at all, a motion for a resolution which would be able to decide or which could be submitted to a decision to the debate. There is nothing to debate, unless other Members from other political groups or from the government groups bring in resolutions in line with the very urgent issue. This has also been done by the liberals, and if I have listened to the speeches made by the previous speaker or the previous speaker, I am certainly right in assuming that you will give your consent to our motion, which is really a motion for a resolution. I also think that the initiative that Mr Bures said earlier is quite correct and necessary. As far as I can judge it for my person, I will also agree to this initiative because it is correct and sensible and has to be decided today. But the coalition will have to get used to the proper handling of the Rules of Procedure, which it has adopted with the agreement of the two other opposition parties, i.e. if there is an urgent matter on which to make a urgent request, in fact it will also be possible to make a request, which can then be voted at the end of the debate. To vote on the report by the Minister and on clarification is essential, because the two reports have produced nothing that would have been essential for decision-making. And for the clarification one would have only to look at explanatory comments from criminal record books, then one would probably have found them. This could have been easier and cheaper. The coalition is here making a very urgent and sensitive issue a wischi-washi application to make political change with it. But we say that we need initiatives with content. If the coalition is unable to quickly propose substantive solutions on this very urgent question, then the coalition cannot expect the agreement of the liberals on this point either, because this is not an urgent request in accordance with § 74a of the Rules of Procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13813	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e13834	Mr President. Federal Minister! I also believe that this motion for a resolution is not worth the paper on which it stands, but it is a difference whether it is insufficient or whether it is rejected. And that is why I say that the rejection by the liberals is nothing but a business-orientated maneuver, because they have the opportunity to be a counter-voicer every time... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The urgent request is a Rules of Procedure! You're gonna give me that!]] I'll give you the right to say so. I have said that it is not worth the paper. However, it has been introduced in a business order, and it is a difference whether I say that it is not enough, and therefore also to introduce something, or whether I say, I reject it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The motion is a Rules of Procedure!]] The forerunnerness of this argumentation is simply shown on the speaker list. That is why I say that a reform of the Rules of Procedure was necessary, and it was still not largely enough if I look at your approach here in this House. I think this is a abuse. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on the SPÖ, the ÖVP and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is immense!]] [[Abg. Haller: This is demasking!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, this is demasking!]] However, I have to say - and this is now the case with Mrs Fekter - that when Mr Fekter says and, as it were, also knocks on his own breast, we, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, would have misplaced the priorities and then indicted that the animal welfare law would have been discussed more often than about child protection, then I must say that you may have overlooked the fact that the ÖVP has been responsible for government since 1987. I therefore ask you: What has prevented you from adding to this issue the priority it has, according to your statement, today from this speaker's seat? I think it is ridiculous if you complain that it is not supposed to have been discussed where you yourself are chairman of the Committee on Justice. What prevented you from becoming an initiative? Who do you want to sue here except yourself and your group? So you can't take everything seriously. That is why I cannot take it seriously, either, that the subject is really at your heart as you do here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It doesn't surprise me, either, if your only ideas are higher penalties. [[Abg. Grossruck: On the matter! You should talk about it!]] That is also what the colleague Applebeck has in common with you, as you have often had something in common, as I have always pointed out. If you believe that higher penalties are the all-healing remedy, I must tell you that you have so far had little confidence in judicial policy, which is unfortunate because you have the chairmanship there. Because if you think that higher penalties – even in the case of sexual offences – have a preventive effect, such as You mean, you're just uninformed. As one can be even about the preventive effect of high penalties of very shared opinion. Experts do not like it at all, but the penalty should primarily serve the security principle, namely to protect society from the perpetrators. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Then why are you against higher punishment? Your argument is not conclusive!]] Then listen to me! But, Mrs. Colleague, detaining alone is of no use at all. If, therefore, we are talking about priorities to be set, I ask you why you have not supported us in our constant efforts to ensure that we – which is also a question of the budget – and that you are also responsible for caring for prison care? Did you actually look at the last figures on the relationship between prisoners and U-haftlings in the relationship with psychologists and with psychiatrists? I can tell you the following points: 17 psychiatrists and 49 psychologists come to about 7,500 prisoners and 1,500 U prisoners. Granted, there are also work contracts. How long can there be in the current regulation is a question anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Child Protection is our priorities!]] What do you mean? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Child Protection is our priorities!]] Then I wonder why you have not been working so far, where you have been in the government since 1987. I can only remind you of that. I think it is really bad that we have given this care in prisons – with "we" I mean now the majority in this Parliament – so far too little attention. And because you always like to respond to the newspaper's call and even now your priority is obviously done because of that and you are now reacting in this way, because there are not only conferences but also a report about it, it would have been nice if you had also responded to it when a report on the Schwarzau Women's Prison was written in a magazine that made this problem quite clear by one of the only psychologists of this women's institution who said literally that it was doing so because the therapeutic work there became impossible. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're annoyed that I'm reacting to it! That bothers you!]] 130 women, 30 alcoholics, 25 heroin addicts, many schizophrenics and so on – a single psychologist there. This is the real problem, and I believe that we should therefore be much more concerned with what happens when such abuse is revealed. Afterwards, I still come to the roots of this abuse. For me, on the one hand, it is necessary for the perpetrators – including female perpetrators, but mostly perpetrators – to receive appropriate treatment and in this way also to increase the chance that when they leave prison, they will be reduced or even healed. That's why it's okay, because when it comes out, it's nothing else than before, namely, how it came in, and we all have nothing of it. But it's also about how to deal with the victims. That is why, even here, you could have been working on it, today we have tabled an initiative which I hope will be taken into account in the Committee. This is about transferring to the jurisdiction of the youth courts those sexual offences that are largely injured or threatened by minors, and then other offences, of which only minors are affected. I believe that this is necessary because, although we have created an instrument that should not increase the torment these children have to experience when such a court procedure takes place, this instrument simply requires an increased level of sensitivity in the child's psyche, knowledge in psychology, pedagogy and also social psychology. As a rule, our judges do not have that, and they also lack the understanding of how to use different instruments. On the other hand, young people who are accustomed to dealing with young people who are accustomed to dealing with children, who are therefore also in close contact with the child and youth prosecutors, with the youth offices and so on, have a completely different position of trust with these institutions and those who act there. In this way, but also through the concentration of the procedures, they ensure a quality of procedure – at least the chance is a far higher – how it serves the interest to keep these children from suffering or being relieved. I therefore call on you to support this request in the Committee on Justice, so that we can do something concrete and not just nebulos about what is to be done theoretically in raising awareness. But if we talk about raising consciousness, it would be necessary for me to question something too, namely, the roots of this crime. I am now talking about the offences, such as they happen in Europe, in America, but at least not in the Third World, because here the exploitation of people and children and therefore also sexual exploitation has quite different causes. But I claim that the extent of this offence and the extent of the damage that children and people suffer from it is due in our widths to an incredibly lying morale of this society, to a lying morale that explains, among other things, certain forms of life sacrosanically and thus aggravates the soul pain of those affected. [[Abg. Großruck: Do you mean the marriage?]] We know that this offence is taking place in a good part – this is now a very serious issue – in the family sector. [[Abg. Großruck: Do you mean the marriage?]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Oh, that's it!]] Yeah, that's it. And now it turns out, unfortunately, that the affected child – whether girl or bub – has traumatic experiences about violence on the one hand, but on the other hand, this occurs in the normality of this society, namely in the family. In this way, the child cannot cope with it at all, it does not know how to deal with it, nor does it dare to talk about it or go outside to any contact person, because this happens under the shield of this sacred family. There must be a question of what there is in there of double-beddedness, because this also leads to looking away or being watched mutely, which means that there are mothers who watch because there is a double ground here somewhere, which is sexuality in man at all. Once sexuality and rape are dealt with in our criminal law under the title "Infringements against morality, offenses against morality", it turns around the stomach if it is not understood that this is a part of human dignity. This has nothing to do with any moral commands that keep changing in a society and which are different in different cultures. If we finally understand that this is about human dignity, at least we will be able to reduce the darkness of the crimes raised today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14045	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. She's got the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14066	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We would like to hear that in Slovenian or Croatian!]] In the very last debate of the 1994 National Council – before the elections at the time, before the National Council elections – this one has already been decided on so-called child pornography so often referred to today. At the time – I have now read this – I have vehemently resisted this expression. This is not about child pornography, it is about violence, in the case of sexual violence against children. The word "child pornography" destroys and underplays the drama of what happens. We only need to remember what was on television and what the media reported about the crimes that happened in Belgium. In my opinion, this has nothing to do with child pornography, which is crime, and that is why it is so essential to clarify what one is talking about. Violence against children is spoken of as sexual violence toward children. I voted in favour of the amendment of the Criminal Code at that time – all of them have, I believe, agreed – but with great resentiment to these provisions, and today, two years later, it seems to me as if we were sitting there in 1994, because everyone is somehow talking about what was actually decided at the time. Ms. Dr. Fekter, for example, spoke of stricter penalties – she was the Secretary of State at the time, but she probably got the discussion – and everyone said exactly what was said today. And now I'm wondering, What happened during the two years? There Mrs Schmidt is more than right when she thinks that you are standing there now and you are fully involved. Everyone and everyone who says this, I believe that, too, I am concerned, but please, the task of a politician and a politician is not exhausted in being affected, but in acting, gracious woman. To act! To act! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's why we also submitted the initiative proposal!]] If I were in a government coalition, I would have been State Secretary at the time, and if I had the possibility, yes, gracious woman, then I would act and not stand here and say, now the "NEWS" has brought three big stories, now we are guilty to the newspapers that are doing this abuse, so we bring in such a washed resolution and sometime we do that. The Commission is now being set up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nothing against Enquete commissions, but only the word already means to me: Aha, now we have 1996, then we are in 1999 – shortly before the next elections. That's abuse! This is not sexual violence against children, but abuse of political responsibility. And you have them here as those who could act and don't do it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone still believes that possession of child pornography is a suitable means of protecting children – yes, where has this protection been for the last two years? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You use this expression yourself!]] That's punishable, but how many children did you protect? The Federal Minister is now being asked by you to tell us whether anyone has ever been punished. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: I have not been asked!]] Today you will be asked to report to Parliament. I must say, Mr Federal Minister, I am a little surprised that you have not already presented the figures to us today. I have the suspicion that they are so caring that one wants to delay this a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Christine Haindl, who was then a member of the National Council, will remember her, had a quality that I greatly appreciated, namely that of persistence. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She has been breast-feeding in the plenary! I can remember!]] In the context of the discussion on the Convention on the Law of the Child, it has taken place here that all the members of the House agreed to a resolution on child pornography at the time, in which the Federal Minister was assigned to submit proposals, government documents to the National Council, by no later than at the latest! – 1996 – now we are in September 1996, you no longer have much time to submit, Mr. Federal Minister, in which the permanent legal basis for extrajudicial compensation is laid down for adults. A very important point in the protection of children from abuse, even from sexual abuse! I do not know that there is or that this is planned by the end of the year. This is something that it is not about following the call: Aha, a crime, more severe punishments, everything is solved, but it is about permanent means, which are also taken into account in the principle of prevention. The word "prevention" has so far been taken into the mouth. They also agreed in 1994 to promote and develop public youth welfare, service facilities, crisis response, child and parent emergency and child protection centres. All of this should happen. That is what you decided, ladies and gentlemen. What happened to it? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Much of it has happened! A lot of it!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, would be the means that abused children and affected parents and relatives would be the greatest service. People need to know where they can turn. And when I think of Mrs Applebeck, who here in her motion for a resolution wants to reverse what was really unanimously demanded by all the experts at the time and what has turned out to be an extremely appropriate positive change in these two years, namely the abolition of the obligation to display those who help and those who are available, then I do not know at all whether you think here in a context or if you do not, what your good right as opposition is, seek at least something that you can criticize and do here. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You want the cover-up!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Unlike us, you are for concealment!]] This is really completely removed from what would benefit the actual experiences of those working with abused children and the adults affected by it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's not true!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haller even spoke about the arbitrariness of teachers and the social workers who do not walk to the police. Yes, then you could ask yourself what you need to be a youth welfare, if it should, as it were, be the only thing to walk to the police. What the police in Austria are able to do, ladies and gentlemen, has shown this to the ladies and gentlemen of the police and the politicians responsible. The funds already available, for example the hidden investigation, have simply not been exploited. Now there is an academic dispute about it. They want us, like the Liberal Group, to make this motion for a resolution, that this is now being clarified and hardened, whether it is possible. You have simply done nothing, because you have no interest in either – this is my assumption – to become active there, or because those who are supposed to act do not have the appropriate information and information and do not have the appropriate knowledge. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Informationary! Documentary duty, Mrs Stoisits!]] The fact is that what journalists have shown is that it is possible and that what safety authorities could and should not have happened has not happened. But now that we ask ourselves – that is, the coalition of the Federal Minister – to clarify this again, that is really ridiculous and that has nothing to do with child protection at all. For me, a question is now at the heart of what is to be done here in the future: Let us finally discuss a reform of the Pornography Act! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You must agree to the request for freedom of movement, then do so!]] The discussion started in 1992/93, and I have now seen a positive development in the papers of Mr. Federal Minister from then and also in his press conferences. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Colleague, the proposal is demasking! That means you don't want to do anything!]] I, ladies and gentlemen, believe that the Pornography Act, as it currently exists, belongs to deleted, abolished, and that which is in the foreground of the protection provisions belongs to criminal, but also civil, sections. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The proposal means you don't want to do anything!]] This is my opinion, that is the opinion of the Green Group, and a number of colleagues are also nagging on this. That is what we should be dealing with, and that is what the children's and youth lawyers have written seventy times again, because this is actually about protecting children from violence against children, but also about protecting adults as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14262	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14286	That's him: Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will agree to this urgent request from the Government, but only with the requirement that we look very, very carefully at what you will do in the next, next, next debate so that you can actually prove the urgency of today's request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14316	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14337	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Stoisits! The first World Conference against the Sexual Exploitation of Children, held in Stockholm in the last days of August, has, among other things, brought recognition for Austria because we are at the top of the world's countries in relation to legal criminal measures against child pornography, and it is therefore not understandable for me to say here today that the Federal Government – or the High House – would have been congenial in this relationship and could have done things that it now intends to do years ago. On the contrary! We have acted very quickly here and have responded accordingly to developments. But of course it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that very, very unfortunate developments have progressed, and we must clearly see that the liberalisation and detabilization of sexuality, which I very much welcome and believe to be correct, has taken a development which is also at the expense of children, and we must also today note that the intimacy of children and young people is exposed to a certain degree of the popularity of adults, so that we must take additional measures to protect children and young people in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, in the area of criminal abuse of children for child pornography and child prostitution, measures are needed, and I would like to thank the government groups for the activities that are being put in place with these bodies of initiative and motions for resolutions. I also believe that it will be appropriate to think about a special protection against child prostitution and child pronography, including a special protection against child protection. Why, my Ladies and gentlemen? – Because no one understands that a 14-year-old, a 14-year-old, is not subject to better protection than a 24-year-old, a 24-year-old. The teeth that youth welfare law and the protection laws of the countries have here are not sharp enough, too far-reaching to me. There is a need for concrete provisions which protect 15-16 years of age as regards any abuse of child pornography. I cordially invite the ladies and gentlemen of the House, especially the ladies and gentlemen of our government, to follow our ideas very soon. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from this really dazzling development of child pornography and child prostitution in Austria and in other countries of the Union, but unfortunately God also in our eastern neighbouring countries, the issue of the sexual abuse of children within the family sphere is also a problem; a problem that can be seen as a kind of iceberg whose top we see today. Because, unfortunately, God’s experts confirm to us that every fourth girl, every tenth boy in the family’s age, is sexually abused in the circle of acquaintances. This condition is very tragic and dramatic enough. Ladies and gentlemen! The 200 convictions, the around 600 ads currently being dealt with in Austria, are really only the tip of the iceberg. At the same time, experts estimate that some 10,000 to 25,000 cases remain hidden in the dark – no wonder that almost 5 percent of all Austria are considered pedophile and therefore, in principle, almost 100,000 men may at least be inclined to commit child abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! There is therefore a need for a set of measures which has already been discussed in many ways. I can follow all these proposals, but not the proposal put forward by Mrs Haller. In fact, I think it is a step forward not necessarily to be advocacy if there is a suspicion of abuse in the family. It would be a step backwards if we were to introduce a complete advertising obligation here again. It is a good thing that it is possible for youth welfare providers, the responsible Members and ladies in this area, to try to find other ways of preventing, averting harm to children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] However, in addition to legal and criminal measures in the area of sexual abuse against children, I think it is especially important to contribute to an increased level of awareness in Austria, to create a network involving not only youth welfare providers, but also, of course, kindergartens, doctors and teachers. I would like to thank Mr Schuster for his initiative to say that Austria's doctors and hospitals should be integrated into a network in order to be better able to recognize, when suspect moments are present, whether a child has only been accidentally injured or whether, unfortunately, these coincidences abound with God and the suspicion of real abuse is justified and therefore further steps must be taken. I would also like to thank you, in particular, for the initiative to enable claims for damages. No child pornography for criminals should be expected, nor should it be possible in the future that the therapy of a victim cannot be paid because the perpetrator is not relevant in this relationship. Mrs Stoisits! That's the way it's right: Some of what is being discussed today could have been discussed and decided by the same law a year ago, but it is still very welcome that Austria is today and also by the measures that have been taken in recent years in the fight against sexual abuse against children, in the fight against the criminal use of children for child pornography and for child prostitution in the positive sense of the word at the head of those countries of the world who have at least taken up this fight. I would like to thank you very much for your speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14423	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14447	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with child pornography, the Freedom Party, Mrs. Apfelbeck, and in recent days other freedom politicians have accused the coalition parties and the government of alleged sluggishness in the fight against child pornography. They have said that promised measures have only been promised but have never been enforced. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Even if you do not fit into the Polish concept: It is not true once again what you are saying here; the opposite is true. It was a member of the government, the then Federal Minister Ruth Feldbrill-Zankel, who first pointed to the dramatic development in child pornography. She pointed out this publicly as early as 1992. It has, for the first time, drawn attention to this issue by means of relevant information, commissioned a study which has shown the existence and mechanisms of the market for child pornography, thus proving for the first time that this dramatic situation is present. The study "The Knospe Children's Pornography in Austria" then led all parliamentary parties to the XVIII. The legislative period has put in place a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to take all necessary steps, including the preparation and legislative measures to prevent and punish child pornography. It then prepared a bill for a pornographic law in cooperation with me – at the time as a youth minister. This draft has already included: Criminality for the production, trade, exchange of pornographic representations with unmistakable, higher penalties for dealers and producers and also the punishment of possession of child pornography. When dealing with the Pornography Act in the Committee on Justice, it was then shown that this comprehensive amendment to the existing Pornography Act was no longer possible during the then legislative period. For this reason, the Austrian People's Party, which was in place as soon as possible for the intensification of sanctions, has also submitted an own-initiative request concerning the punishment of possession, which has provided for the creation of a new § 207a Criminal Code. This proposal, Mrs Apfelbeck, has also been agreed upon by you. You have complained today that your request has been rejected, but you have been silent, Mrs Apfelbeck, that your request was discussed in committee at the time and was thus completed. You have also voted in favour – you may say "with grief". [[Abg. Applebeck: We have also submitted our own application!]] That is right, you have also tabled an amendment which has not been accepted. But you have forgotten to say that this has been a motion for a resolution which you have voted for. [[Abg. Apple beck: Still better than nothing at all!]] Mrs. Colleague! It was not by chance that the Stockholm conference also pointed out that Austria is at the top of the European countries with its legislative measures. However, I do not want to hide - I think this is an essential point - that we need to be aware on this issue that legislative measures alone cannot solve the problem. I should also like to point out, therefore, that it was the family ministry - started and initiated by Ruth Feldbrill-Zankel - which has set up a platform against violence in the family, in which all organizations dealing with violence against children and women are united, in which for some time experience has also been exchanged and making proposals for improving the situation. What is needed is attention from all of us and a corresponding training of the people most likely to be the perception of sexual violence, violence against children, namely nurses, teachers, teachers and doctors, in order to increase attention and to be able to remedy it as quickly as possible. They have also made it clear that today there are a number of resolutions and proposals for initiatives which, of course, Mrs Colleague, have now been tabled or will be tabled. [[Abg. Apple Basin: Just brought in]] But you will not assume that you have now been written quickly because of your speech. It was, of course, the urgent request of the hangers to be able to bring these motions for resolutions. A few words on Mrs Schmidt's speech. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With all due respect to avoiding repetitions and relapses and also to attack the appropriate therapy of the perpetrators: I also think this is very important, but for us, the Austrian People's Party, the help for the victim, the help for the child, the highest priority and only then the perpetrator. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's why I have to put the perpetrator in order!]] That's right. But I think as long as the funds are limited, the highest priority and reparation should be given to victims. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: In order to avoid further victims, it is necessary to treat them! Don't you understand?]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen, but I do not think that has come true from your words. You have raised the appearance as if you were demanding the highest priority for the perpetrators. We are the highest priority for the child, and I wanted to know this clearly. Mrs Stoisits – Unfortunately, it is not in the hall now – it has said that nothing has happened in the fields of awareness-raising and concrete help. I also have to deny that. There are a number of organisations which are also supported accordingly, not least the family advisory bodies of the federal government which are stopped to draw attention to this problem. It is no coincidence that just two weeks ago an exhibition of the Ministry of Family Affairs was opened on this subject. They will not assume that it was conceived only when the terrible events in Belgium were known, but they have been prepared by a long time, in order to raise awareness of this issue again and thus create the appropriate awareness for a legal change.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14546	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriele Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14570	Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, allow me two comments or impressions on the statements made by my previous speakers. Mrs Schmidt! I was in the Blackau Executive Commission on Tuesday in the course of my work. There a psychologist, a psychotherapist, works there for the social service. I'll go with you d'accord and say: The care of women is still too little. But what we need to pay even more attention to is, I mean, post-care after the arrest. Secondly, to the Members of the Freedom Party. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very disappointed that this issue continues to be a cause for populism and polemicism. I really have problems with your statements. You held a survey on this subject on Monday, and contrary to the opinion of the experts say You here things that just don't vote. Her expert said that emotionality in this issue was understandable, but tougher penalties were not judicable. Furthermore, the psychotherapist in your survey says that the loss of values – which Mrs. Haller regrets: "The problem of abuse is as old as humanity. Only the media that now offer pornography have changed." - So much for it. Ladies and gentlemen! To get started a quote by Helmut Ruge from "between anger and longing": "On a school trip last summer, a student dared not say that he could not swim. He simply followed the other into the water and drowned without words. He just didn't want to go down in this society. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Anger and anger gather in me – probably also in you – when it comes to the abuse of children when it comes to violence against children. I am firmly convinced that we must give a voice to this unwordlessness of the children concerned and that we must hear their signals. But I am also convinced that this issue is not new and that many measures have already been taken to tackle these problems. It is about children's rights, about human rights, as has already been pointed out, which I believe are being trampled on and disregarded. These rights are simply not respected. In my speech, I try to bring you a little closer to the positions and views of the children, far from the legal concerns. I was at the survey of the family ministry last week, and there I also showed how diverse the facets of violence and abuse are, how many faces have abuse and violence: There is sexual abuse, there is physical abuse, there is mental abuse. And abuse has to do with violence, ladies and gentlemen, a form of violence that is often unimaginable to us. There is violence against women, violence against children, violence against the disabled, violence against foreigners, violence against the old. I believe that many values, elements of our lives, are challenged by this violence, although they are so important, so vital, especially for our children. For sexual abuse, sexual violence against children means loss of willingness to love, tenderness, giving, safety, well-being and trust. All of this is taken from the children, and it is very difficult to regain this willingness. A problem that was identified on the survey, among other things, was that the border crossing between tenderness and abuse is very, very difficult and unwarranted charges can often also be opened door and door. I believe – and I am convinced – that it is about protection, help and information. What's very important to me is: It is about our children being allowed to say no that this No is accepted and respected, even though it is often very difficult for those entitled to education. Children must be allowed to say no and can and must learn. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: Abuse and violence also have something to do with positions of power, both dependence and oppression. That is why there is so often the frequent standstill agreement between children and adults, between perpetrators and adults, because it is also a question of power. Ladies and gentlemen! That's my political opinion, that's expert opinion: Higher penalties do not necessarily protect against abuse. The higher criminal framework does not protect, although it would conform to our sense of justice. Instead, protection, help and therapy are important, especially for victims, victim protection, as Professor Dr. Max Friedrich suggests in all facets, from the reduction of the procedure to the acceptance by video camera, with the need to improve technical equipment and facilities, to the training of the criminals. This would be a wealth of measures for the children concerned so that they will continue to be protected and maintained. Because this is what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that all the experts, ladies and gentlemen, say that the reintroduction of the advertising obligation would be fatal. Because that very person I can trust again, who I give trust, would then misuse my trust again. The issue is that abused children are not abused again. I believe that the exception to the obligation to display this particular category of persons must continue to be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen! What is very important to me is the protection of abused children, this anonymity, protection from the public. It must no longer happen that in a radio broadcast a reporter asks: You know your grandfather's your dad too? – This is really a misuse of the abused child. There must also be consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Two things might still be on this subject. The reality of abuse becomes aware of children only when they are made aware of when abused children can call abuse by name. And they can only do that with the help of excellent therapists and therapists. My speaking time is about to end. A short time ago on the subject of victims, since we are faced with a lot of social democrats in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! If we don't work with the perpetrators, there will continue to be victims. Experts say that it is not possible to heal, but to control, the actions of the perpetrators and their person in themselves. The supreme goal is that the perpetrators become compassionate of their victims. For they have no pity for their sacrifices, nor for their own children. They need to become empathetic. Ladies and gentlemen! The suffering of the children is very great. Many organisations have already set up activities in this regard. We must support them even more, even more with financial resources. I also welcome the establishment in Parliament of a committee of inquiry with the task of analysing, developing and finding solutions to this diversity of abuse, these diverse forms of violence. Professor Ringel said that everything I do to a human being against his will is violence. We must take action against this violence, especially when it comes to protecting our children.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14667	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14692	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Violence and sexual abuse are issues that affect all of us personally and also affect us. It is precisely my colleague Binder's last speech that showed me that we have to deal with these issues sensitively, that we should work together and not against each other, as has unfortunately been said again and again here today. Debt allocations and social exclusion of victims and perpetrators do not help anyone and certainly do not lead to a change. All too often and especially in these occasions that we are talking about today, the call for tougher laws and higher penalties is to be heard and considered justified. However, we must not overlook any situation in which these crimes occur in part. It is a fact, a sad fact that many children are also abused in the family. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a sad reality, and it does not meet our expectations, expectations and wishes that the family is not a safe place for children. A sad balance sheet follows. In Austria, it is estimated that every fourth girl – my colleague Haller has already mentioned this, but she has forgotten something, and I would like to repeat it – and every tenth boy is a victim. A third is only between five and nine years old. Even before infants are not stopped. Mrs Haller! Of these suspected 25 000 child abuses, which occur annually in Austria, up to 94 percent, according to executives, are in the family, family and acquaintance circle, often – and this is particularly sad – also with the knowledge of the family members. It is not enough, therefore, to decide only laws on child pornography and child abuse. It also does nothing if the perpetrators are put in prisons, if there are hardly any therapists there, and the perpetrators are rescinded after detention. What we need, therefore, is for the perpetrators to be able to undergo therapy during the execution of the sentence. It should also be ensured that regular controls of the perpetrators are also installed after the penalty has been fined. Mrs Binder! Here we go completely in accordance with your remarks. It is a serious concern for us to be able to take control. Ladies and gentlemen! It is up to the society to face repetition risks. I am convinced that this can only happen if therapy and control are taken more seriously in the future. However, more resources need to be made available for this. In this case, no savings package may be allowed to take place. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have experience from numerous studies, especially from the USA, where this taboo theme is researched much better than in Europe. In 1995, the authors found in a published analysis that on average 19 percent of the people treated with therapy had fallen back. However, in the control groups without treatment, the relapse rate was 27 percent. One can now say that this difference between relapse and success is small. However, I would like to oppose the fact that every single relapse that can be prevented by treatment and therapy is a success. For if one keeps in mind the suffering that results in an act of child abuse, one must, if one can avoid it, speak of success. We should therefore also pay more attention to therapy and control in Austria in the future – Mrs. Fekter and also Mrs. Col. Rauch-Kallat! – also with regard to child protection. My colleague Dr. Schmidt has certainly been misunderstood by you. She never said that the perpetrator should be protected, but the child. Ladies and gentlemen! We know, and it is terrifying that there are a large number of child abuses also in Austria. The latest news in the media speaks a language that should open our eyes even more. Public awareness on this issue is urgently needed as a first step. The media have undoubtedly helped to make the issue of child abuse public once again. However, in this context I would also like to appeal to those responsible for the media not to increase the number of newspapers in addition to this hideous children's business. Because respect for the children should be safeguarded. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to focus on child protection. We should finally note that in our society, children have an endowment. Therefore, children should not only have a material value, which is only about aid and staggering such aid, or about the question of where to accommodate a child more cost-effectively. When I think of the last family debates here in the House, I must say that little was to be heard about children's rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Children are their own personalities, who should also have the right to say "no" once. It is therefore all called upon to create an environment for our children and to encourage them to be able to live in their self - perception as well. Mr. Family Minister! You too are called on to contribute even more. Therefore, it seems important and necessary to make nonviolent education even more conscious in our society, because violence against children will certainly be reduced only if the attitude towards children changes in so far as children are considered to be independent people with needs and desires and are not considered to be possessions. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It seems to me therefore more important than ever that the social policy requirement that violence in child rearing should not have a place in society is also included in the law. For it is certainly not targeting when children are first addressed, when they have already become victims, or when damage has already been detected that has destroyed a whole life. It must therefore not remain in the hands of a law on occasions, but what we must do is to do everything we can to continue to be serious about the rights of children.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14792	The Federal Minister is next to speak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14813	Mr President. High house! We are discussing a very shocking issue today, namely the issue of sexual violence against children. The staggering figures mentioned by the family minister show us how far human addiction can lead. – To the extent that children's bodies are injured, children's souls destroyed, child's future broken. Above all, we must deal with the culprit's structure. In the meantime, experts have found that sexual abuse is subject to addiction. Abuses have distorted, disturbed views, especially about women and children. It has also been found that there are no unique slippers. Abuses justify and apologise, rationalize and deny their actions. And the actions are planned, intended and not committed out for impulsive reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! If we hear that, we know that prevention is much wider. I agree with my colleague Dr. Michalek that criminal law has a contribution to make. But this is by far enough – by far! – not out and usually comes too late, i.e. when the child soul is already injured and destroyed. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice is also a misguided person in the field of the protection of 14 and 15 years old. This also belongs to the whole area. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A little tired fellow fighter!]] I believe that prevention has to take place in all areas of society, that a network is needed, as it has already been said, in the family, in society, in kindergartens, in school. What I think is particularly important is to strengthen the personality of the child. Effective prevention is strengthening the personality of the child. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Effective prevention is also the strengthening of the child to defend, distinguish and say no. Effective prevention also includes information on the various forms of sexual abuse and border areas. It is our task to promote prevention through an open discussion climate in school, kindergarten, on a human level. It is important to have an open dialogue between teachers, teachers and students, students and, above all, parents. Our task is to promote cooperation and coordination in the social and school sectors and to promote sexual education as an important aspect of prevention in schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make it quite clear that it is important to continue training boys and girls in separate lessons on these areas. I've made a recording on codukation with the radio today. I think it's right and good to be co-educated, because men and women are also together in society. But in certain areas, in very sensitive areas, especially in the field of sexual education, prevention must also be taken into account to further training girls and boys separately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I will also be concerned about the whole area of teacher education, the special awareness of teaching. In a new wave of information, we will teach teachers how to recognize signs. Signs of violence to children include behavioural changes of children, speech disorders, sudden insomnia, sudden neurotic behaviour of children in schools. We will also encourage teachers if suspicion of abuse is to lead all the necessary help into the way. This is particularly important because no one can detect, stop, and also ensure that the consequences of the detection are handled by those affected. There is a need for a bundle of measures, professional assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request is a step further to expose disgusting crimes and to improve international arrest methods. To this end, a network needs to be created in all areas of society. We ourselves must resolve not to look away, but to interfere in order to prevent child suffering. And I will make sure that the school makes its important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14870	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14891	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! What you have said now, Mrs Minister, I have been extremely pleased with. One will certainly have to talk about some kind of measure. But if that is done, I think that is quite positive. Just, let me have a doubt. I'm not sure if it's being done and to what extent. In the past, in the last few years, we have already experienced exactly this issue, not your place of business, Mrs Minister. We have also sent joint requests to the predecessor of the Minister for Family Affairs, namely from the National Council, which, obviously, I would say, would have been unsuccessful. I'll come back to that. What has become clear to me in the debate, but not only in the debate, but also in the process of getting involved in this issue, is that, in addition to the possible and imaginable aggravation in criminal law, this cannot be the only and indeed not the all-healing remedy. Criminal law does not solve the problems we have. The first problem that we have with criminal law in this area is that, according to experts in this area, the extent of punishment to date is not handled at the lower limit. And this is the first problem we are facing, that there are criminal standards, but those who are to exercise them and execute them think that what is to be executed is not worth it. The standard of punishment is far too high. I recall a debate that we had in connection with Nazi re-activities. There it has been said that the criminal standards are too high, we must lower them so that they are accepted. Now we are going, obviously completely unimpressed by the facts, to discuss in the blue the increase in criminal standards and do not see that these criminal standards are not accepted by the judges, by all those who otherwise have to do with them. I would remind you that the association The gulls – I think the letter will probably have received some of you, at least the family speakers – complain exactly about this fact that in practice a far too low level of punishment is handled. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We know the club! He's very good!]] I come back to the debate in which it was also discussed how bad the criminal standards in South-East Asia were. I should also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the age of protection, for example in Thailand, is not ten years, not twelve years, not 14 years, not 16 years, but 18 years, only does no one stick to it at all. That doesn't interest anyone at all. So such a high age of protection, ladies and gentlemen, cannot prevent sexual abuse – and we know this from the Thai situation – from obviously becoming a social norm. And this is the problem of having to talk much more seriously about it and ask the question of how it could be done. I don't think it's the answer and the cause, but I'm telling you one thing: The misery of child abuse, not only in Thailand, but also in the Eastern European countries, is a problem associated with poverty in these countries, poverty in Eastern Europe and poverty in Thailand or in other South-East Asian countries. If we act here as if we could fight the problem by raising criminal standards here in Austria and condemning one or the other – we should also be like symbolic gestures – if we act as if we could solve a problem in these countries, or as regards child abuse as a whole in the transfer from there to us, then we will be deceived, then we will lie down in our own pocket, ladies and gentlemen. I think, and that is what I have learned, that the problem is so complex that we should be very careful and careful about it, carefully and carefully in the sense that politics must be very careful about how much and by what means it is involved. I think there are many questions open, such as the treatment of offenders, drivers, so-called pedophiles. No one can tell me that he currently had a prescription that would use therapy. But one thing we know, and that has already been said a few times: Victim protection is important. Yeah, why doesn't anything happen in victim protection? Victim protection is something we could do. We could build child protection centres. The club Mowe, but not just this one, proposes a number of measures to protect how victims would be protected. This is a letter addressed to the Members of this House. [[The speaker shows the letter.]] Why don't we do what's inside? Why, Mr Bartenstein, are the measures adopted in 1994 in this Parliament's motion for a resolution not finally implemented? What has happened with regard to the development of child protection centres? What has happened with regard to the expansion of child and youth prosecutions in Austria? I have not heard in recent months or years that great progress has been made. On the other hand, I have heard from the circle of child and youth prosecutors that some body is at risk of having a problem with the financing of child and youth prosecutors. That's what I heard. I would like you, Mr Minister, to explain to us as a member of the government here how you have dealt with this request from Parliament. It has not been done by far. But it would be necessary to do much more, which has not yet been discussed here and which is not necessarily one of the primary agendas of this House. I mention, even though it is difficult to deal with this issue, the issue of morals, the morals of the media – I would like to address them – and the morals of advertising and also the morals of politics. Ladies and gentlemen! Child abuse: ==References== August published a report on the children's catcher Dutroux in the "Kronen Zeitung" for the first time. On the same day a hearty little picture appeared in the "Kronen Zeitung" on page 1 with a naked little girl. [[The speaker shows it.]] Perhaps one of you heard yesterday the cultural report about the photographer Mapplethorpe about which an exhibition was made. In the exhibition there was an image that could, as it were, be interpreted as a pornographic gesture. Since this picture was taken from the exhibition, there has been a wide debate on whether this is censorship or not, whether it is legitimate to do so in an artistic work. I would think the "Kronen Zeitung" does not operate art, and it is legitimate to ask whether the presentation of young people, of children, of 14 years old, has been conducted every day over the summer in the "Kronen Zeitung" – I only read to you: "An eye pasture with a seductive silver view is the 14-year-old Pamela from Gföhl in the forest district." – at a time when the murders in Belgium were already known, it is not appropriate to be discussed as a moral problem in this country, whether it is not appropriate to also talk about the fact that a photographer under the pretext, it is being taken for the first time in order to make better artistic representations, photos, and the "Kronen Zeitung" dares to show himself things, as it is so beautiful that one has not so far shown, and this has happened by a photographer who made these model photographs in the Eastern European countries, just as the Slovak citizen, who has been introduced by "NEWS" to child pornography, has done so. I think we should talk about the morale of the media. There is also a need to speak positively about this. I very much liked what Mr Rabl from the "Kurier" said on the topic of search ads: "I find these ads degoutant and would rather not have them in the 'Kurier'." I think we should also talk about what is said in advertising, what is presented in advertising. But we also need to talk about how little serious the policy of this business is. I'm a resident of the 2. District, ladies and gentlemen, I live in the Stuwer Quarter. There is a pornography law that no one adheres to, which the executive does not hold to, for which politics does not assume any responsibility. Around the schools there was a relevant locality created after the other. Everyone knows that this pornography law does not apply and politicians as well as executives just pull their shoulders and say...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14941	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14956	Ladies and gentlemen! We should talk a little bit more about the contentiousness of morality and also about the contentiousness of certain debates.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e14987	The next speaker is Mr Schuster. The remaining speaking time for a total of 25 minutes is 8 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15008	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Healthy families are the prerequisite for a healthy state. Future not only has to do with economy and technology, future, high house, these are especially children. If we are discussing these issues today and hopefully going a step further, we must be clear that children need a loving and supportive home. Missing grant and violence of referees can – and we see it again and again – cause major, serious damage. High house! In this respect, better detection is necessary. We must take measures to prevent physical violence. However, in order to detect these cases at the earliest possible time and to be able to intervene, I believe that one must happen in particular – I will address them even more precisely –: The accident data of children's hospitals and accident hospitals are to be networked at a central location. High house! This could be the country's central role as a youth welfare provider. I would particularly like to thank the Federal Minister for Family Affairs and Youth for this. Through an initiative, he has already developed a model project in which some hospitals in our federal capital Vienna are involved in the networking of health stories of children treated in accident departments to detect physical and sexual abuse. These hospitals are enthusiastic and think that a lot of things can happen in this regard. I have already referred to this matter at the 1994 budget discussion to the then Minister for Social Affairs Hesoun, and I would say that it is high time that those parents, those entitled to education who, whenever such damage occurs to children, who change the home doctor or the hospital, are prevented from doing so; it is therefore really necessary to create a network. Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun no longer replied, but his successor, Social Minister Hums, has obtained a number of opinions, from the main association of social security funds to the constitutional service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. In summary, the Minister for Social Affairs tells me: We welcome your initiative. – Unfortunately, nothing has happened so far. It is all the more gratifying that our family minister has immediately become active with this project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] High house! I believe that a key role should also be given to the school doctor in this regard. We note that there is only one hour available in the Federal Schools for 60 students per month, in which school doctors have the opportunity to examine our students. That is why I believe that school doctors should be more preventive and advisory. We know that in kindergartens, compulsory schools, children are often alerted to behavioural disturbances or injuries. The teacher who has been in difficulty so far, as soon as he has made a report on this, is of course not in a position to do so as a doctor. I therefore believe that we must also support the increased presence of the school doctors in the future. High house! I should also like to make a motion for a resolution in this regard. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask all the parties, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because I mean: All humans are born free and equal to dignity and rights. Article 1 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights states that it is this way. And this "born like dignity and rights" needs to be taken more into account in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15094	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Barmüller. Time left: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15118	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! As the debate has been held for some time now, one thing becomes clear: The subject confusion is increasing. In the end, it's just more about the superstructure to describe all that has gone wrong without reducing it to what it really is about, and that's simply the abuse of people who can't defend themselves. The accusation to Mrs Fekter has rightly been made that, if she is such a concern, she would have been able to act in this regard for a long time as chairman of the Committee on Justice. And I wonder, my Ladies and gentlemen, there is a motion for a resolution by the government parties, which on this issue is also mixed with the hidden methods of investigation. This is something that – if you really want to discuss it in a matter of fact – does not fit in, Mr Kukacka. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I would be pleased, Mr Kukacka, if the human rights sensitivity which I could just hear from Mr Schuster would also prevail in other areas of the ÖVP and if human rights are real human rights and do not adhere to prejudices. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Don't be so hypocritical, Mr. Barmüller!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What has already been said in this debate, namely that every inadvertent relationship to sexuality is something that favours the abuse of children, I would like to say that this is not true. To do violence is probably something quite different than to be able to act relatively free to talk with relatively few taboos on the subject. It's a very different thing to do than violence. If this is simply so mixed and mixed, it is more important that there are fundamental differences in values in the world than that of an objective debate. And especially when it comes to a higher age of protection, which we, ladies and gentlemen, do not at all have to relate in this context, because what is happening here is already punishable. It is not a question of making something so much criminal here that someone else needs to be protected, but it is a question of having to ask ourselves: How can we improve compliance with these rules, how can we achieve better enforcement of them, how can we achieve in society, in our state that there is a real awareness of the problem here? Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it would be useful to raise the so-called protection age to 16, because it simply does not go along with reality. Or is it really your goal that for girls who are older at the age of 16, whose sexual protection age is not 14 years old, as it is at present, but at 16, practically – overwritten – every premarital sex becomes punishable? – This is a consequence that follows. That can't be useful! This is obviously a backlash in a much larger dimension than it is supposed to show a topic. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The higher penalties, ladies and gentlemen, which are repeatedly demanded in this context, can have a general preventive effect, they can serve to say that it is something that is deplorable in society. But, ladies and gentlemen, is the problem not more because the current penalties already imposed are only within the lower third of the criminal framework that is possible? And that is not something that the Federal Minister should first tell us about. Anyone and any chairman of the Committee on Justice could know if he or she wanted to know. And if she had known, she could have become active earlier in order to really make this a topic here in the house, in order to be able to talk about it objectively – also in the Committee on Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rauch-Kallat, in particular: I find it scandalous, I find it very worrying when reflexes are repeatedly confronted with the victim and the perpetrator's protection against each other. If Mrs Schmidt says: Let us think about how we can give treatment to those people who abuse children – and this seems to be about people who are sick – so that there is no other victim, then the Mrs Rauch-Kallat turns out and says: The first priority is with children. If you don't always talk about perpetrator protection, let's talk about victim protection! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is, of course, about achieving, Mr deputies, that there is no further sacrifice and no further traumatisation of children. If you are concerned about this, then you agree with the Liberal proposal, which wants to achieve that this offence will be negotiated before the youth courts in the future, because there are judges and prosecutors working there who are always working with young people who are more sensitive to this matter and who also have more experience. This is a measure that can be taken quickly and which would really remedy the problems of children, those who want to protect you properly in this context. That would be an opportunity. But what are you doing? – You only require reports from the Minister of Justice on facts that you can already read in statistics anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! I would suggest that we in the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection consider that we are discussing proposals in the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which are already in the House and then take decisions. Let us really make the youth courts responsible for this matter. They thus prevent the further traumatisation of children in the course of the proceedings on such offences, and you will achieve that then there is no major obstacle to addressing these problems also in the public field. You will see that, if you go here and, for example, as Mrs Haller has called for today, you will remove the exceptions to the obligation to advertise, so that you can only achieve a reduction in the number of respondents to abused children. For that these children in an outspoken... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] Yeah, that's right, ladies and gentlemen. But the fact is that you also have to turn to someone. And the fact is that these children are often in doubt, but also in doubt because of other feelings, to tear their parents in front of the Kadi. [[Abg. Haller: They're being abused! They were set up to protect the victims, they are used to protect the perpetrator!]] We must therefore find an opportunity to resolve this problem and not only can punishment be the only way. It was the meaning of my speech to have made this clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15204	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15225	Once again, it is significant that during today's debate on sexual violence to children, the term "impeded people" did not fall once, except by the honourable Member Binder. It is not right that sexual violence is a crime that occurs exclusively in families. Sexual violence is on the agenda, especially in the disability homes. Only it is not declared as sexual violence because disabled people are still seen as medical, therapeutic beings. And if sexual violence or violence happens to disabled people, it's a medical, therapeutic measure. That's the fact. I have already shown this in a 1992 survey – still under Mrs. Dohnal’s name at the time – as it looks like in the area of the sexual rape of disabled women. – Nothing has happened to this day. There is probably nothing going to happen in the future. In 1992, we were promised that there would be at least sexual counsellors for affected women and men. They don't exist until today. A few hours a month you can use sexual advice in Graz. But that is all that was created for disabled people in this period of time as far as this offence is concerned. It is also added that particularly disabled people – and the more severely the disability is, the more difficult it is to articulate themselves – have no way of articulate themselves if they have been sexually abused. And that's why these people still have no rights. Disabled people who are abused in stationary facilities have no rights because they are suppressed day by day, are dependent and do not come out of these institutions. I would like to make this clear to you. Remember what's going on in these facilities. Sexual violence is much more intense there than anyone would think possible. I haven't been living in such an institution for 30 years, but reports of sexual violence have come to my attention to this day. Some of you should know about it. What has become of the case in Styria, where the father of a home manager has sexually abused mentally handicapped women for years? – It was so to speak turned under the carpet. What has become of it when it became known that an employee has been sexually exploited for years in a disability home in Vienna? – The women were suddenly the perpetrators, and because of their disability they did not manage to stand up to the evidence that they were victims. They were pushed into the perpetrator's role, and like perpetrators, they're still being treated today. Due to the situation in Austria – and you can believe this – there are hardly any disabled people who trust to articulate their experiences and their sexual exploitation and the violence they have to experience. For they are not recognized as victims, but as perpetrators. Something should finally happen in this regard. Minister! I call on you to ensure that this situation changes, especially in the field of stationary facilities. Sexual violence in disabled homes must be demonstrated! It must be said that it must no longer be silenced, because it is a human rights violation. This is unworthy of the fact that disabled women and men no longer need to be liked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15279	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Stadler. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15301	Mr President. High house! The questions of the ÖVP, why we cannot go along with this urgent request, have already tried to answer my previous speakers. I'll make it clear again: Firstly, because the Rules of Procedure would be different, and secondly because it could be the content of a telephone call. Mr Khol! You have a listener here, you can call the Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But he has none!]] What you wanted to know is that he should report, make a little more clear and report on it, he would have done so. But of the announcement, as it is already done today in the "Kronen Zeitung", which is to be read in the urgent request, there is nothing in it. You can be insured: All of its motions for resolutions, which you have now postponed, which also have substance, we shall support. But: Don't be angry with me, we can't decide this. We will not support this, you only want reports, clarifications and other reports. Ladies and gentlemen! History, I think, is going a little deeper. It is a falsely understood liberality – and one sees it at the Liberal Forum, whose spirit children are present there, but also in parties such as the SPÖ – this misunderstood liberality, ladies and gentlemen, has led to incredible bestiality in Belgium – and those who do not believe it should once again present these reports on television. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller]] This misconceptional liberality is not intended to organize on the backs of defenseless children and also disabled people a pitiful business in favor of the perpetrators. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have been more often opposed to that spirit which was expressed, for example, in Mr Kostelka's speech, when he said that we had condemned these incredible acts by the serious criminal Karl Otto Haas: Nietzsche is certainly not suspected of being a Social Democratic, but he is certainly right when he says: Distrust all those in whom the drive is able to punish. – End of the quote. This is the attitude behind it: Don't punish, treat a little, they'll get better. Then they kill a 13-year-old boy, like Karl Otto Haas, a little further therapy, at least not... [[Abg. It is a difference between punishment and punishment.]] Mr. Schieder! I'll tell you: This is not an emotional industry, there is no wrong compassion for the perpetrators, there is a determined state action in this case! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Here is determined, state action, against the perpetrators, to protect the children! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has also been that spirit, Mr Kostelka, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who has led to this federal government and its previous governments promoting a Otto Mühl – a condemned child shame! In his municipality one was still there at the opening, he has collected housing funds for his children's pubic institution! He was sentenced, and now the ladies and gentlemen are on their way... – 42 million schilling, I hear. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 42 million schilling!]] I don't know if that was all. In any case, the government was still supporting him when he was already sentenced, and now the ladies and gentlemen are on the road and are collecting signatures for his rehabilitation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the art scene, he is passed on as a great artist, only because one thought with him ideologically. Which one of you was outraged? You, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, too, when Mr Alemann in Carinthia was awarded a prize for giving baby-fucks the best, ladies and gentlemen? – No one was outraged, we were presented as a ban on cultural policy. Who of you has become annoyed, ladies and gentlemen, when these performances have been given the best with promotions in Upper Austria and at various other locations of our Republic? - None of you was excited! That is the spirit against which we must act, that is the spirit, in which child pornography, in which the abuse of children and the disabled is possible in this Republic! This is a falsely understood liberality, which is inflamed with culture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since it has been made clear today that the ÖVP – not correctly informed by the Minister of Justice until the Minister's opinion today – has assumed wrong conditions in item 2 of the urgent request, I can present the following motion for a resolution and ask you for support because you have noticed that the Minister of Justice sees things a little more restricted. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to support this request, as the Minister of Justice has shown today how necessary this request is.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15429	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I would remind you that in the President-in-Office's meeting we agreed that all the clubmen will work to bring in motions for resolutions in such a way that compliance with speaking times is still possible. No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the votes. We are the first to vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution by Mr Fekter, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades on the protection of our children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign of approval. – This request is decided by a majority. (E 20.) Next, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Apfelbeck on combating child pornography. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this request to give a sign of approval. The request was adopted unanimously. (E 21.) Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Dr. Fekter, Dr. Kostelka, on measures to protect our children. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously decided. (E 22.) Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stadler, who has just been brought in, with regard to the exception of the prohibition of fake and trust purchases in drug and child pornography offences. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The request has not been accepted. We have thus concluded this item of negotiation. Short debate on the reply to the question 701/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15532	Next, we will come to the brief debate on the question of the reply of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs to the order number 701 concerning contracts of work. The answer to the question has been distributed so that a reading by the scribe is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes and that the other speakers may speak 5 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The first speaker with a speaking time of 10 minutes is Mr. Dr. Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15567	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The answer to the question has been distributed. However, I cannot expect it to be read by everyone with the same attention as our group. It was our request, however, that we should have a discussion for a number of reasons, and I hope that everyone will be able to follow me and also give the necessary attention. It is a question of trying, in a request, to lighten up the political background to the so-called contract rules, particularly with regard to the newspaper colporteurs. The answers are partly simply unsatisfying. In Question No 4, we asked the Federal Minister to explain to us what was the reason why these exceptions were decided. The answer given by the Federal Minister has been limited to informing us that further exceptions have already been added. I think very strongly that in today's debate, the Federal Minister will take the opportunity, after this really empty answer, to finally present the reasons for the increase of the exceptions, if the concern behind the whole – at least after the claims of the government parties – was a social one. If it was a social concern, as the Federal Minister and the Federal Government understand it, these exceptions could not be argued at any time. Just as now – and this is a reference to a floating state in this scheme – is limited to comprehensible how the social claim to create insurance relations as possible for all, with the re-establishment of a short-term limit, as it now "swimmers", of 7 000 S, is, however, only a footnote. However, I believe that this current reference is important because something is actually being done here, which may make the exception of colporteurs available in the future, because the income of colporteurs is likely to be below 7 000 s per month. So I wonder, Is there perhaps a link between the probably unsustainable exception for colporteurs and the new poverty line, which has now been politically negotiated, which is not yet on the table in writing, but has already been praised in the media by the government parties as a great success in negotiating, as a success which is only not beginning to condense, because there is no application yet? There is only media coverage in a matter that has been declared the main issue – we have all persecuted it – and which now begins to turn back from the head thing into an initiative proposal. I do not know how to do that at the same time: on the one hand, the chief thing, where two bosses seem to fix and agree, and on the other hand, I do not know the proposal for an initiative from a group which represents a will-making on a parliamentary level. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Spitty!]] Apart from that, Mr President, perhaps in very authoritarian structures, I can imagine that there, but that is really unfortunate. But we now have the competent Federal Minister here. This, of course, goes beyond the question debate. If, as I hope, he will explain more to us than the empty formula of the written answer to Question 4, namely the philosophy of the exception, related to the colporteurs, then he may also consider how this exception is taking place against the background of the new 7 000 s gap. Perhaps then it will no longer need this exception to the higher honor of a non-insignificant media group, as we know. Perhaps this is now the second social "non-security network" that is being used for colporteurs. First network: exception, second network of which: 7,000-S-Brenze. This ensures that, if the exception does not apply to the Constitutional Court, it falls into the 7 000 S limit, i.e. it falls through. Question No 5. There is a written reply from the Federal Minister: To answer this question, I refer to Question 4. And I just carried out: The answer to question 4 is the empty formula: Other exceptions have been added. Question No 5 has stated: Why have the newspaper colporteurs and the house suppliers been excluded, but professional groups such as artists, freelance journalists, architects have not been excluded? That was a very precise question about the differentiation feature artist and colporteur. In the meantime, a colporteur movement has established itself, trying to get it under control. This question, which has pointed out precisely the demarcation, is answered by reference to Question 4, and to Question 4: Furthermore, existing derogations have been added. That is not an answer to question 5, and therefore our desire for discussion. I hope that the Minister of State will take the opportunity to answer this differentiation in his speech, which I expect to speak to. In question 6, we have found out that exceptions have apparently been created for areas where these are companies which are commercially viable, such as colporteurs and their clients, and have asked why they have not observed this in the cultural scene, where the clients are usually not financially viable or where they are public hands with limited budgets. In the answer, the Federal Minister informs us that commercial success is not a criterion for the introduction of these measures. But what criteria are crucial, if not commercial success, that is not the result of the answer to the question. That is why I ask you perhaps to submit this. In Question No 10, we asked quite the background to the exception for colporteurs why people working on Wifis, Bfis and/or folk universities are in the exception; in an exception we all know here in this House that they have existed since 1982. In this regard, the Federal Minister specifically pointed out that this exception applies in any case only to people who are socially insured in another profession. This is a satisfactory answer at first glance, at second glance even less, if one considers that cumulative arrangements are now provided for in what is happening to us, and otherwise cooperations take place. That's why it's sharpened and very precise: Federal Minister! If it makes sense in the field of adult education, wifis and Bfis, people who are socially insured in a particular profession are not socially insured in the secondary profession, why does this principle not also apply to the comparative other adult education institutions that are privately organized – first inequality – and why does this principle not even apply that, if someone is insured in a particular place, someone does not have to insure himself cumulatively elsewhere, as you have now included in the current contract of work and want to tighten up once again in the working contract regime in the floating state? I mean, this question is more than urgent, more than urgent, in a state where no one knows what will happen tomorrow. At least we want to know what the will behind it was, because it's hard to explain, it's hard to understand, but it's hard to get any answers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15606	Next word: Mrs Reitsamer. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15628	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The week-long discussions on the work contract regulations show the complexity of the subject. This matter is and was admittedly difficult to regulate, and therefore also some derogations that have already existed in the ASVG have been taken over. We should not pretend that there were already a number of derogations in the ASVG. I've counted a total of 15 and I'm allowed to quote some of them. There it says: The children, grandchildren, election children, stepchildren and children-in-law of an independent farmer within the meaning of § 2 para. 1 C. 1 of the Farm Social Insurance Act, if they are mainly employed in their agricultural holding. Then: Staff members, according to § 4 para. 1 C. 6 persons treated as persons, also domestic workers and persons treated as persons, as well as persons referred to in § 4 para. 1 C. 11 with regard to employment, which according to para. 2 is to be considered as minor. One could continue at any rate: in the field of university and university assistants, in the field of adult education, in the main coin office, in the priests of the Catholic Church, in notarial candidates and so on. But this one exception or, rather, two gives us all our displeasure, if I have to say: I have already said before the summer break that I would like to see all these exceptions get away with a transitional period, because these exceptions make it more difficult for us to implement new ones, and we need new ones all the time. We are concerned with the maintenance and further development of a solidarity community, and this requires a legal regime. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to continue this path, we wanted to move more towards the right to contribute, towards greater social protection, and finally to eliminate circumvention possibilities. These are there, otherwise the excitement would not be so great, ladies and gentlemen. The aim of our activities must be to change the concept of workers in the long term. Let's think about teleworking. We must also achieve that all income from work must be subject to social security from a certain point of view and up to a maximum basis of contribution, which must be adjusted. This very statement of intent is reflected in the last paragraph of the amendment to the contract agreement, which was agreed yesterday, and I am very pleased about that. [[Abg. May. Peter: If not!]] We need to develop our social security system permanently and should not question how it always happens when we talk about insurance instead of compulsory insurance and when we talk about free choice of cash and competition at health insurance companies. This is certainly not the right way!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15671	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15693	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we know from the discussions on the problem of work contracts, we are faced with a social, economic and technical development which is becoming more and more fluid in the boundaries between contract of employment, contract of work, contract of employment, contract of employment, genuine, unfair contract of work and free contract of employment. This is mainly due to technical or technological development, for example telework, which makes us see that the elements of the classic contract of employment are simply getting smaller and, in fact, the elements of self-employment are getting more and more involved. Mr Peter! When we look at how the ASVG defines the term of service: Service providers are those who are employed in economic and personal dependence against pay, and if we know that it comes primarily to the question of personal dependence that the personal dependence is defined according to the Judicatur : [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter]] Those who are unable to have their working time and ability to work freely are in the condition of personal dependence, then we see in particular by technical development, example teleworking, that it is becoming increasingly possible to break out of the rigid boundaries of the employment contract, because this characteristic of not being able to freely have their working time and their ability to work is getting less and less. The employee sits at home, his wife, his aunt, can do his uncle a part of the work, and thus the classic feature of the employee concept is no longer given. This goes down to the fact that there is also a development in practice today, and we will, please, not be able to slow it down by law. This development reaches true independence, so that the entire problem of the contract can be avoided at all. They say: Okay, solve a business license, then you're a self-employed person, and we don't have any work contract problems. That's it! Whether one likes social policy or not, ladies and gentlemen, this is the development in practice. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the group of people who have been mentioned here, namely the colporteurs and house suppliers, who have basically taken these classic characteristics of self-employment. There are contracts here that, I would say, the "great guru of labour law", Professor Strasser, has examined. These are contracts where the person concerned is not obliged to perform personal work. This goes so far that some have contracts and do not perform any work at all, but do this work to relatives, acquaintances, family members. So there is no question of a dependent employment relationship, although, of course, according to the Judicatur, these elements are essentially to be examined in each individual case. But it was certainly the political will not to test thousands of cases here, but to say: Just as there are many other exceptions, we take this group as a group globally, then we save thousands of casuistic legal disputes. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I would like to say very clearly: If we want to expand the social protection as much as possible, then I am in favour of it, but – and that is what I am saying to the Liberal Forum – this social protection must not be a forced happiness. This is primarily about groups of persons who earn 2,000 S, 3 000 S and 4000 S and do not want to get 30 percent less because they also have to pay social security contributions. Think of these people too! This is for me liberal thought, not forced happiness. [[Call the Liberal Forum:That's what we're talking about!]] Social protection where the subjects want him – that would in itself be liberal thought. But just to laugh at it, Mr Peter, unfortunately, that is not enough. Please note: We as the People's Party are in favour of social security, but not in the sense of forced happiness for those concerned!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15736	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15758	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. Stumbling! If you want to explain something, you can even pull it on my hair – or on your whatever you want. You have actually told us, Mr President, that the colporteurs are independent entrepreneurs. They can sell their newspapers wherever they want and at what time they want. So you have all the classic features of an entrepreneur, and – and that's what you have added – you can't in any case check whether the colporteur is an entrepreneur or not, because one stands at the crossroads of the opera and the other at the ring, and that's quite another thing. My God, finally admit, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ: You have made a kneefall before Mr. Dimand. But if you've already done it, at least you have the courage to admit it. But these eternal claims of protection, the larmoyante rumour, that would really be entrepreneurs, is unbearable. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Real liberal attitude!]] Now comes the next argument, ladies and gentlemen: If we have to swallow this "screw" of the contract system, because the social network has too narrow a basis of assessment, because we want to put the social network on a broader basis, because, as Mr Hums says, it is right and necessary that social protection is given to all, it is not possible to say that the colporteurs, who are in the rain and dirt and who are supposed to be entrepreneurs and are allowed to pick up their newspapers, do not need the social protection of the contract. Mr. Federal Minister, you don't believe that yourself! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And I'll tell you something: They have provided an answer to a question which Parliament must not really like. You know that very well. You've been tapped around like the cat around the hot bridle, and you've explained: As a minister, I do not want to do this anyway, but the initiative of colleagues from the People's Party and colleagues from the Social Democratic Party has put this into my mind. Federal Minister! Parliament's right to interact is a very important right because, as Members, we have the opportunity and the right to know from you what the background of a decision is. You have disregarded Parliament's right to interact with this reply.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15807	The next speaker is Mr Oellinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15829	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! So one thing you have to leave already: This answer to the question is something like a total work of art. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] With regard to these many questions, which have really been tried to follow the history of the arrangement with regard to colporteurs and to get something out of you, you have managed to say by referring one to the other question what you wanted to say: nothing at all. You should be worthy of that kind of thing. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it is about something else, and I find it really difficult, it is about the colporteurs you, Mr Minister, and at the same time also the majority in this House have sent into the black hole of social policy. And this is actually no reason to laugh and no reason to be satisfied, even if it really has some humorous traits. It's sad for this group you said from the beginning: If there is someone who could be caught by a contract of work, if one imagines as a symbol who needed social protection and who does not have it because he always falls out of these regulations, then it is the colporteurs. Mr Vergestnich! And then it is as read in this answer: Parliament is responsible for the creation of will, for the decision, because it is the body responsible for democracy. But it was the question: How did the will formation take place? and the question "How?" Implicit: How'd it get there? And you did not answer this question, Mr Minister. I'll answer it now, at least I'll try, and you'll be able to defend yourself. That's actually a sequence of incredible incidents that would have to push the mud red into your face. It has begun by receiving a letter from all the spokespersons responsible for social policy in the context of the budgetary consultations; so have I. This was on the eve of the Committee's meeting. Of course I was flattered: The Lord Dienand writes to me! This is also beautiful, Mr Dieand wants something from me, the social spokesperson of a small party, he wants me to use myself like others for colporteurs and their liberation from the contractual obligation to work. [[Call the ÖVP: It's not new!]] I thought I'd write back Mr. Digand: I'm sorry, I can't deal with the matter, but I also think that the contract regulations in the agreed form are very problematic. To that end, I agree with you, but to make an exception for the colporteurs, I cannot answer for that. – I wanted to write it to him. But then I thought I was waiting for the committee meeting the next day. I spoke in committee on Mr Digand's letter. All the social spokespersons – Mr Kier of the LIF was no longer present, I believe; you have already left committee at the time – have done nothing but do: Dienand? You don't know anything. It doesn't matter. It has not been debated in the Committee on Budgets in the Section on Social Policy. And then in the afternoon I get a call from a journalist, there would be a request for amendment. What? Where? A request for amendment? - I don't know anything about it. It is strange, you sit in the committee and consult on a matter, you talk about it, but you do not know that there is an amendment. Of course, I informed my colleague Van der Bellen about this: There's an amendment. He has also come, he has also been decided in the vote – without a debate, of course. A hundred or two hundred applications have been voted on. The wrong thing about this regulation, which you decided at the time, was that it was not appropriate for the media print. Therefore, from the Committee's meeting to the plenary session, a further amendment to the amendment had to be made so that the media print would become an exception at all, because the exception was previously designed in such a way that the media print would not have been an exception. And so in the plenary debate another amendment has been tabled, and you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, have swallowed all of this – without any contradiction without pulling with the eyelash. I would just like to remind you of your responsibility as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15878	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e15900	Dear ladies, dear gentlemen! I could make the answer very easy. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You already have that, Minister!]] No, no! First of all, I should like to point out that this question has actually answered every question asked. I could make it much easier, and here I say that, after many discussions on many, many areas, this exception was not in the draft which I brought into the Council of Ministers. But I don't want to do it that easily. It has already been pointed out by several: Our social security system currently contains a number of derogations, each of which has repeatedly provoked results and new exceptions. I have therefore always explained here – and this is also my stated goal: We must work together to ensure that we offer all of us social security and that, at the same time, we also contribute to ensuring that the system remains eligible for funding for all. And that is why it must be our common objective – and I have repeatedly explained this here – for all the measures that can only be achieved step by step – that exceptions which do not comply with these principles, in which areas they always exist, must also be removed step by step. The objective must be a social security system, as far as possible a broadly uniform system. The name "General Social Security" should also apply in the longer term, and this presupposes – it is not at once due to different circumstances – that we take steps in the direction: Justice for all, social protection for all, finance for all. Who believes that in this respect I would have contributed to any exceptions that would not have been conditional on any other exception, because I would have been afraid of certain groups in an area, may he please look at which prominent groups – unfortunately with your support – in the last few weeks and months against a socially important measure that leads in this direction: namely social protection for all, insurance justice for all, mood! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What about the colporteurs if you want social justice?]] As you probably saw before a number of times, you have repeatedly criticized this regulation, which is an important step. Unfortunately, since the Greens are also arguing in this direction, I would like to read from a delegation of Members from the Greens, because that is contrary. The free service contracts bring workers back to social security, i.e. they have a social security protection which I have repeatedly represented in Parliament against the resistance of many who have other reasons. And what is the point of this Green Member's broadcast? - There's inside. Because of the new provisions, thousands of workers, small freelancers, professional starters such as graphic artists, designers, technical artists, journalists and artists are trembling about their existence. Whoever writes in an issue that a technical artist is threatened in his existence because he is socially insured and has to pay social security contributions in the future, has no right to come here and criticize it. I really want to stress that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore ask you all to: Go along with these steps, these important steps. Think about who has been afraid of lately and who really criticizes this social step! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is an unconstitutional arrangement!]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Chaos!]] If you are talking about chaos here, then you do not know the social security at all, because there are unfortunately very, very many not easy provisions in the field of social security today. But if, because of the compromise, it is not possible to take the big step of including all income from employment from a certain level, if, as a first step in this direction, we are only allowed to include service-like contracts of work, then it is necessary to define in the law what has always existed in the Judicatur: what is a servant-like thing. And "employee-like" belongs, among other things, to a certain regularity. Whoever then puts this as complicated or takes it as an excuse to reject a step in the right direction – social protection for all, insurance justice – and to qualify here, I agree with every one who does so that any right to discuss derogations here at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't do that!]] This derogation shall not apply to colporteurs if they are classified as servants. There have always been exceptions in the field of adult education before this regulation existed, there has never been a discussion. But obviously now you are looking for reasons because you are under pressure – perhaps your own party funds or other regulations, where work contracts are being carried out – in order to bring the whole thing down again. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] I don't know, I'm just asking. That's just a question. Again: I'm really looking for you: Let's go... – Unfortunately, there is an ever-increasing degree of work contracts without social insurance, and that was the reason why we had to put in place measures here. [[Abg. May. Peter: Mr. Minister! Take it back! That's a premise!]] In more and more areas, service contracts are excluded by works contracts or service-like contracts without social security. Nor can it be that, on the one hand, one gives the employee a small contract of employment and on the other hand is paid at the expense of all other insured money without social security in so-called works contracts, service-like and free service contracts. That's why I'm asking: Let's go in this direction together! It is also planned by the government to pursue this objective: general social security from a certain income from employment to a certain income with social protection for all. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16024	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16045	Mr President. High house! We have now heard what can be thought of yesterday's agreement. The agreement, which was hailed yesterday, which was supposed to only serve to save itself over these two days, so that the opposition does not keep the agreement on the work contract, so that the whole summer debate does not focus on the debate in Parliament today, is a sham. Now I read in tomorrow's "Kurier" that the Minister Bartenstein – who is now no longer here – has been pulled over the table. - That's not my formulation. Someone in the ÖVP is of the opinion – this is to be read in tomorrow's "Kurier" – that this agreement is not manageable, is even less manageable, the Push to the Push, and therefore the Minister Bartenstein was pulled over the table by Minister Hums. I would like to congratulate you on this achievement of having pulled this great minister over the table. Anyway, you managed to introduce this minister. Today, the ÖVP is convinced that its own minister has been pulled over the table by you, highly esteemed Mr Sozialminister. It is not manageable that these are reforms, which are not at all clear, and in the end the pussy will continue the chaos. Ladies and gentlemen! This is covered by the letter that Mr Haider has already read to us today. The ÖVP negotiates, can be pulled over the table, and on the street, Mr. Görg collects signatures for the fastest suspension of the contract law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I will really take a close look at the voting behaviour of the ÖVP. We shall now be able to see how to reconcile the Görg's electoral theory with your voting behaviour in Parliament. Because at the Chamber of Commerce – this is how it writes to us – you still don't see why you're being given to the Pranger because you're treated better than the private one. It is said that this is a danger to the transfer of know-how, if the Chamber of Commerce is also subject to those regulations which are meant to be applied to the private. There is a clear interest here in the fact that the current Husch-Fuch, at least as far as the favor of the Institutes of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, is being continued. Ladies and gentlemen! We'll look at you very carefully today. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Maybe we'll vote by name!]] We'll think about that. If today, in the knowledge of what their own people represent in the election campaign, the ÖVP knows that the Minister Bartenstein... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein enters the hall.]] Minister! They've been pulled over the table, it's called. Tell us how it went! Your own party is of the opinion that you have been pulled over the table by this minister. Mr Bartenstein! We would have liked to see how Mr Hums pulls you over the table. The ÖVP says in tomorrow's "Kurier", you have been pulled over the table, this agreement is not taking place. Now I'm excited what's really happening. We invite you to eliminate this regulation in the first place – in the interests of Mr Göerg! – by agreeing today to the request already made by Klubobmann Haider, which aims to ensure that the contract regulations in the Structural Adjustment Act and in the Social Rights Change Act have retroactive effect by 1. Delete July 1996 – be deleted without replacement. As Mr Göerg would like, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is Görg's policy. We're running Görg's policy. Görg has an ally in us. I will also send back a postcard to Mr Görg – I will then sign it and ask Mr Bartenstein, who has been drawn over the table, to play Postillon d’amour and to send them to Görg that he has at least done something against the works contracts. I'll give him my support. Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! And if everything does not work, I am also willing to take the stand as Ultima ratio for us to join the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, we will also need some kind of support from the ÖVP; at the SPÖ, I believe they will not be achieved. But this party must not leave you out of the drawing. This party bets out against something she has decided on, against something where she has been drawn over the table during the negotiations, against something that she carries along, where she puddles and repairs. Finally, it introduces an X for a U to the voters. Ladies and gentlemen! This dual practice policy will be put to the test today. We will see how the ÖVP behaves.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16095	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16116	I will now resume the negotiations on the declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor on economic and integration issues. Mr Van der Bellen referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16143	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Schüssel, the Foreign Minister who is not present, said literally in his speech three or four hours ago: the Green Liberal Member, Johannes Voggenhuber. Of course, we can't take that. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't!]] Not the liberals either. That's why I'm actually correcting: Johannes Voggenhuberist, remains and will always be a representative of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16204	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16226	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now difficult to take up the debate from the morning, but I would like to try and join directly with Mr Vergestnitsch's speech, which is understandable now. But he'll surely be able to read it in the record. He accused my colleague and friend Peter Haselsteiner of cynicism because he admittedly made a thoughtless and misunderstanding statement in a conversation that was quoted by "daily everything". I would like to note here the clarity of half the form and the clarity of the fact that Peter Hazelsteiner is also known as a successful entrepreneur of construction for a socially run company and does not, in the least, corresponds to what Haselsteiner lives, does and thinks about this question. [[Call to the liberals: But this is new!]] It's been a misunderstanding. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am pleased when Mr Vergestnitsch calls for a uniform worker concept by 1997. Only that's still piecework. I always hear of a uniform worker concept for workers and employees. Where, please, do the public officials stay? Madam President, I would be very grateful if you would give this to Mr Vergestnich. It will probably not be credible if he speaks of a uniform worker concept and only means workers and employees and forgets the public servants. I am very pleased when we get the proposal here to the High House – the Social Minister will certainly also be working on it – to create a single worker concept for all the employees in this Republic. The economy and European integration are the issues that will probably be very important not only for us today but also for the next year. To date, global competition has not only got to feel the entrepreneurs, but also the employees. Entrepreneurs have a buffer role for market changes. We can now see these changes as a threat or challenge. I regret that many political leaders define it as a threat. I think we can only see them as a challenge. The successful country of Austria will have to change and must not remain in the past. Is it not necessary for many of us to free ourselves from the prison of experience that always tells us how successful something has been? – Yes, it may be. But what was successful in the 1980s is not the least guarantee that it will lead to success in the 1990s or the turn of the millennium. In fact, it would be the task of this Federal Government and the task of governing it to march forward, to demonstrate its own reformability instead of using the European Union as a rhetorical lightning diver. Why does this federal government always make reactive instead of active politics? Why is this federal government actually a driving force working in permanent crisis management? You're saying that we don't have enough teaching places now? Now, do you think something is going on, an apprenticeship fund, a tax depreciation, or anything else? They've been in government for 10 years. The theme of apprentices has been a burning theme for many years. Work loss is a major factor in the development of new jobs. You're on it now? To ensure that labour costs are not competitive, do you come now? Research and technology are all at once. Yes Believe You really are that our research and technology deficit is changing by the fact that the Federal Chancellor is holding a successful speech in this place? And what happens now? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The vice chancellor was very good!]] She was pretty good. In terms of content, it was the same thing that the Federal Chancellor said. But what is useful if I hear this in Parliament now when the mistakes in technology and research policy come from the last three, four, five years in which the Social Democrats and the Austrian People's Party have ruled in a large coalition. This government is always acting in a sluggish manner and – unfortunately not transported by the social partners but further inhibited – is on the way from one fireplace to the other. I'm worried about Austria's economic location. Policy is the answer to the question: What's next? It is the design of the future and not the repair of the past. We have already been able to discuss the contract regulations, and it is quite surprising that we are starting a reform of the social network by creating exceptions. It is amazing that we do not have the courage to really reform the social network, which is essential for our country, which is the greatest contribution to the political culture in that country. Also on this one screws around afterwards in a fire brigade action. Have the courage of the government parties – you bear the responsibility – to demand the self-esteem of every powerful citizen! And then, if you have all seven types of income in the income tax declaration, we can discuss which of these types of incomes are used to finance the social network. This can also be solved by an insurance obligation instead of compulsory insurance. Mr President, I have no other answers to the social network as a contribution increase, as a contribution increase, as a contribution increase. He is not willing to discuss possible restraints or limitations of performance. He is not willing to allow competition in a system where productivity is measured by bureaucracy and not by market. Ladies and gentlemen! This country of Austria has achieved so much that we can be proud of it, but to raise this pride to the lazy bed and say that it is all good anyway, and to speak of the experiences of the past, I think it is a dangerous announcement. In the free market in which we have to offer ourselves, the customers decide, and I suggest for the time being that this House is once again talking about its customers, about its markets, in whose power it alone is to give us revenue, value added and thus employment. We're talking too much of ourselves. The secret of a market is to talk about the customers, of the possible optimal satisfaction of customer wishes. We have too high labour costs, not too high gross wages. Gross wages are too low in Austria. Labour costs are too high. The power we give our employees over the money they earn is actually half, if not a two-thirds wage, because the net wage is about one third of the labour costs. Debureaucratisation, self-esteem, flexibility to increase productivity, taxes and taxes on our own responsibility, which are ways of gradually getting us to have higher gross wages, more self-determination of employees and less or not rising labour costs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am quite sure that now again five or six of you will consciously miss out on me. For me, the social protection of employees is essential. The question is: Am I going to take him on a bureaucratic level, inspectorate him far away from the businesses, or do I finally have confidence in the works councils and trustees elected to the companies? This is where the future will lie, and here the task of the trade union will be to support this in-house co-determination with the Council and the Act. It is not enough if we hear from the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor here again that we have not enough entrepreneurs. Why do we have too little entrepreneurs? Yes, why frustrate Are you in this country the entrepreneurs with your policy? Yes, why do it? They are a policy of which more and more entrepreneurs are asking themselves: Why am I doing that? That is the question you have to answer! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Austria is an important member of the European Union. Without the Austrian initiative at the Social Charter, without our initiative on environmental standards, without our initiative in removing non-tariff barriers to trade and without our initiative in tax harmonisation, this membership would be worthless. I therefore call on the Federal Government from this place to make active European policy and not to hide behind Europe because of its inability to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16293	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16315	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Peter! We trade unionists have enough confidence in our works councils. Unfortunately, we do not yet have the democratic understanding everywhere in the economy that the election of the Works Council is so easily made possible everywhere. I would like to say this in advance. In his statement today, Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky pointed to the importance of employment policy in particular. Even if we have a low unemployment rate in Austria and in the international comparison, it is particularly true to us social democrats who are particularly aware of the fact that these statistical figures are behind people, people with concerns and fears when they are pushed into unemployment. That is why we are in favour of social democrats both in their own country and at European level for employment-saving and creating measures. A proof of this policy is, among other things, the figures of the self-employed in Austria. Since 1993, I have looked at the average annual figures. We had over three million employees each, and also in July of this year, Minister, we had 3 138,676 employed persons. As a breeder, I would also like to point out that these efforts to create employment measures have, for example, borne fruit at Steyr Daimler Puch insofar as it has succeeded in continuing cooperation with Mercedes Benz through the production of all-wheel models of the E-Class. Or also the reason for the European commitment of the company Collins & Aikman in Kapfenberg. These are our efforts to create jobs in Austria. If, today, Mr President, Mr Principality has been acting strangely, when Mr Vergestnich reminded him of what interests would actually be exercised in accordance with the Stock Exchange Act, namely entrepreneurship, shareholder, employee and overall interests, this is surprising. ==References====External links== A long article on the activities of Mr Prinzhorn was to be read in January 1995, including: In the East alone, Thomas Prinzhorn invested in a total of 3 billion schilling, mostly on pump. At the roof of Prinzhorn's group of companies burned light fire. In 1993, Hamburger's core company had a turnover of 670 million in debt of 1.9 billion, as bankers stunned in relation. I don't want to do this any more. I am pleased that this trip by Mr Prinzhorn has not gone so far as to cause Austrian workers to lose their jobs. That is why I am particularly pleased that this has gone well. In principle, however, the question of responsibility within the meaning of the four points referred to by Mr Vergestnich is already raised in such cases. However, it is also for us Social Democrats that we have nominated a person in a prominent position among the candidates for the European Parliament, who is particularly aware of the concerns and needs of the working people in a very difficult industry, namely in the area of textile clothing leather, namely our colleagues Ettl. He is a guarantee that he will also be committed to precisely those social concerns at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At national level, however, it is obvious to the economy that social dialogue – in our view economic and social partnership – can only work for the benefit of all those involved. And that's why I'm surprised to have to recognize a monologue in a today's APA issue. This is how a dialogue cannot work. The economy requires longer opening hours – I guess, because it would make profits, because otherwise, there will be no need for longer opening hours. [[Call the ÖVP:No, but the customers want that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Mr. Dr. stupidly, I am surprised when I read in today's APA issue: "Economic Chamber Secretary General Günter Stummvoll formulated the line of employers yesterday evening also scarcely: Jobs or supplements" So, ladies and gentlemen, economic and social union cannot work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You can't have everything together, Mrs. Colleague!]] We Social Democrats advocate an employment union, for a social Europe, but also for greater equality in Europe. For the sake of what I have just said, I am submitting the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Khol, Dr Novotny and colleagues. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have heard the points that are called for, both at European level and at national level, for the benefit of people living in Europe. That is why I am seeking to join this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16435	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Silhavy is sufficiently supported. I will involve him in the negotiations. The next word comes from Mr Oellinger. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16459	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker places a box with the title "Sparpaket 1996" on the speaker's desk.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the government bank, which is already a little ventilated at this hour – just like the High House, I already admit! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think much of the Federal Chancellor's statement. I admit it. It's too non-binding, this statement. It has little concrete evidence. It includes what you remember to say again and again in good weather speeches, what you have to say in so-called Sunday speeches: One will work for employment and for integration. However, this speech contrasts strangely with the current daily policy headlines, integration regarding. Just one sidestep, ladies and gentlemen: If, yesterday and today, I have to read in the newspapers that an Austrian intelligence service in a neighbouring country, which is also a member of the EU, is clearly suspected of being active internally in the sense that the climate is to be escalated there, and here beautiful Sunday speeches about integration that is increasing, which we are so glad about, I have to say: That does not fit, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. You have to confess whether you really want to integrate or whether you want to conflict with Italy, for example, through our Army News Office. I think it is incomprehensible that politics is still not ready to respond to this approach of a intelligence service, that it is still not ready to look at what is happening in the context of this army news agency – and that is not just about South Tyrol. But we are discussing integration in general and how much we are all in favour of integration and how much we are all in favour of progress in this country and in Europe. Obviously, this peace should not be disturbed. I'll tell you: This is a mogel pack that you want to sell here in front of the EU elections. It is a mogel pack, as is the budget programme you presented by the Minister of Finance: a budget programme for five years, in which absolutely nothing is in it except non-binding statements under threat – it is a threat, otherwise it is not understood – that structural reforms should continue. The question is what to continue in structural reforms. You must start first, ladies and gentlemen. They must first explain what the Austrians actually expect from this Federal Government in the next few years. I am afraid that you will once again use the date of the EU election to wait, and at some point in the autumn, perhaps in the course of the next year, we will be faced with what we have yet to expect from this budget programme, in which figures are not even presented. I suspect that it is like the Russian doll, the Babuschka, that whenever a savings package is presented, a next savings package will come out of it, until nothing remains of the Russian doll, the Babuschka, in this case of the Austrian citizens. [[the speaker takes away from the carton a small box with the label "Sparpaket 1998"]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's really grossly negligent what you're doing. Do not believe that the Austrians can sell it so easily. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not want to threaten you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrians will deny you the confidence – they are very patient – but the confidence in politics will be destroyed, and in the long run you will all be fined for what you are doing with your policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is grossly negligent if the facts are not clearly put on the table here if it is not said what is meant by this continuation of structural reforms. Unfortunately, the Minister of Social Affairs is no longer here. But on Monday, ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully in "Time in Figure 2" when the figures were mentioned for the development of emergency aid recipients, this rapid increase in the reference of emergency aid. I have listened very carefully to what the Minister for Social Affairs has said and what has been said in the off-moderation of the contribution by the editor or editor. It was said: It is expected that emergency aid may be limited in time. – Ladies and gentlemen! You know what time-limitation of emergency aid means. We must now make a proposal on a time-limit. The time-limit can therefore only be understood as an out-of-handling. Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to have a statement from a representative of the government whether in this package which we have to expect in 1998, the tax on emergency aid recipients is also inside, whether we have to expect, Mrs Hostasch, that in two or three years' time emergency aid can only be obtained for two years. [[Abg. Parnigoni: (pointing to the box on the speaker's desk) That's what you've chained!]] And I guess there are the appropriate plans for that. I guess we'll get it presented. I believe, Mrs Hostasch, that it is already being discussed that they may already be under discussion. I would like to discuss this publicly in this Parliament. I would really like to know what it is about these structural reforms, which the people in this country who are not doing so well can expect from this Federal Government in the next few years. I think you can't make it as easy as the Federal Chancellor to withdraw from a rather non-binding formulation. It is not binding to mention, for example, when he says in his statement that it cannot be Austria's principle strategy to compete with low-cost countries on labour costs. – In principle, he says, in principle, it cannot be the strategy, but in individual cases very well. So it is to be understood, ladies and gentlemen, at least if you read the "Economics Week" interview conducted with the same Chancellor a few weeks ago. That's when he says: It is not to be ruled out in a number of cases, it is imaginable that the wages go down. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Mock! It was this federal government that tried to sell the Austrians with the help of a blue booklet in front of the EU elections: If we join the EU, wages will rise. If we don't join, the wages will fall. – Explain, ladies and gentlemen! Explain that in recent years, when it came to bringing the Austrians behind the light, you have always been there, have never taken anything back, nothing of these promises, all of which have not voted – you have known that and we have known that – but have always said: The 1 000 s more a month, the rising wages are there, the social level, which, of course, can only be maintained in this way, there is only so. That's all wrong, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it! It will come at some point the day when the billing will be made. This billing will not – I suppose – take place on one election day, but it will be done by the fact that the Austrians generally withdraw their confidence from the politicians, that this distance, which we all feel, is getting deeper and deeper. And not only do I want to protect us from that, but I also want to warn you. That is the ground for authoritarian developments, for fascist developments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have already come to the contract regulations. It is not the place here to discuss the trade agreement arrangement, this new revision of the trade agreement scheme. This does not fit into the debate, I am sure. But it's part of it. It's part of how you, as a government, have presented yourself as government parties in recent months, as you have in some cases tried to take out specifically certain groups – we discussed this earlier – at the explicit request of certain lobbyists, as you have tried to make fast coal with this contract regime, really just fast coal! It is your social security, which I claim to be totally no matter what, according to this regulation which you have now taken up. You're not interested in that, otherwise you wouldn't be able to raise the limit to 7 000 s. Whether the women can get through now, you do not mind, although it was at the beginning of our joint declarations and intentions that we shared with all of you – as I do not take anyone from inside here. You don't care. What has come out is a Murks, who does not bring exactly those social security who have the least income. That is why we are also bringing in a motion for a resolution that I am reading. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of promising the Austrians bread and roses with this request. It is about protecting against poverty. And you, ladies and gentlemen, also from the government parties, have this task to do, and not only in Sunday's speeches, to explain that you are opposed to poverty and that it is incomprehensible that poverty is increasing in this country. They should agree to a request that does not require anything impossible, requiring only time to develop a thorough social security scheme against poverty by the end of 1997. This is not a time limit for anyone to be overwhelmed from today to tomorrow, but it is a time period in which a thorough debate could take place. Let us take the time to actually bring about social security. I will come back to the Mogel Pack, to the budget programme. What distinguishes Austria despite everything from the EU, ladies and gentlemen, is the following: Our Minister of Finance or our Federal Government is quickly taking a stand in the cash register and does not let go of it anymore. Once she gets into the pockets, she doesn't let go of it anymore, then she doesn't want to leave the money out – whether it's hers or not. And that, I have to admit, is a small difference from the EU. The EU has requested and identified membership contributions from Austria: We cannot even spend what Austria and the other Member States have paid on contributions. Austria is therefore being reimbursed membership contributions in the amount of 3.4 billion schilling. – That’s not a small sum, ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance could not expect this sum. He could not know that repayments would be due because the EU did not consume the money. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want the Minister of Finance to simply take these 3.4 billion schillings somewhere and make them disappear so quickly, without the Austrians not realizing it. We therefore propose that this 3.4 billion schilling be used for an active labour market policy which is always too short in this country – we know this from every debate. It also belongs to the Sunday speeches that we agree relatively quickly on this – with nuances –: We should actually spend more on active labour market policies. In view of the 80 000 emergency aid recipients, ladies and gentlemen, and a serious increase in certain federal states, I urge you to agree to this allocation of 3.4 or 3.5 billion schilling for active labour market policy. The return flows that come here are to be used for active labour market policies. I don't think it's impossible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I read the motion, ladies and gentlemen: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make another request. Since it is about unemployment in this country, because it is a question of setting signs here, too, because the fiscal criteria of the Maastricht Treaty in terms of economic and monetary union – the convergence criteria and the fiscal criteria – are also at risk to the economy in that country, we are proposing that the deficit limit for the net deficit be increased from 3 to 3.5% in the short term. I know that this is being discussed in all circles. You try to smog around and say, We are paying contributions to the EU, and if we took them into account, we would be below them anyway. You try to construct a solution in this sense, as we try to do with the request – but a little more open, I think. Because I don't want to give you a fee, I'll just read you the request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Van der Bellen will then make some comments on employment policy and on the need for employment policies, on the promises you made to the Austrians in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think it's impossible. They are all committed to the Employment Union. There is a Charter of the Christian Democratic Parties, what else do I know. All point out when it comes to creating employment in Europe. But when it comes to concrete measures, as formulated in these requests, I suspect, most of the hands will remain down again. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not spare you the test of these two requests – to the active labour market policy, which is only about the purpose of making contributions, and the employment policy for Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16618	Mr Oellinger has read three motions for resolutions, all of which are sufficiently supported. They are therefore included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16642	Mr President. My very valued Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Oellinger compared the 1996 savings package with a Russian doll, I must say: I can certainly identify with this, because that means that this savings package is reduced from year to year and thus the burden on the population is reduced by the savings package. This means that the structural measures have taken place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have not been aware that the savings package is taking structural action and therefore the burden over the years is getting smaller. [[Abg. Oillinger: But it's coming, the savings package!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have been a member of the European Union for 20 months now, and the period until September 1996 – the months to come will be similar – has certainly been a very big challenge for the Austrian farmers. Of course, the strong price reductions that took place immediately after EU accession – it has always been called into question whether payments and compensatory payments for agricultural services will be successful – have dampened the mood of the farmers in relation to the EU. Before Austria's accession to the EU, those who were angry predicted the death of the miners. I am still in the ears of the small miners, so to speak, being confronted with the large Dutch agricultural industry, and it has been claimed that there is no chance that we will be able to keep the miners. Others have predicted an invasion of the shield lice, have predicted that our waters will be diverted to Spain. – The Danube still flows into the Black Sea and not into Spain or Gibraltar. That is to say, much of the opposition that has produced uncertainty about the future has not occurred. The results of 2 482 accounting companies from 1995 are currently under discussion. For the Green Report, records are made at the Court, and the results are then evaluated by economic trustees, by the accounting company. And it is always argued with percentages. But I think the Austrian population should learn the actual figures. 22 percent Plus says very little if you don't also explain the starting point. In 1995, annual income from agriculture and forestry per family labour force was 175 800 p.m. for all Austrian enterprises. However, this annual income does not occur for a weekly working time of 40 hours or 38 hours, but of 60, 70, in the harvest periods partly even of 80 hours per week. And if we divide this annual income by – as is common for self-employed people – 14 you get a monthly income of 12 500 S. However, I say that it was nevertheless a better job compared with 1994. And it turns out that the government has kept a word, but under strong pressure from the People's Party and the Farmers' Party, that the European Conventions, the agreements, have also kept them in times of the savings package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The miners have an annual income of 147 890 S and by 14 divided a monthly income of 10 500 S. That means that we have everything to do so that we can achieve further improvements in the coming years – in this year it will look particularly sad. For us, it is a pleasure that last year's indebtedness fell from an average of 420 000 S to 350 000 S. In comparison: Last year, the Swiss farmers have had to take a 12 percent reduction in income – including accounting results – but have a debt of absolutely 1 420 000 Schilling. [[Abg. Wabl: Absolutely?]] Every Swiss farmer is in debt with 1 420 000 S! We had just over a month ago in Gars at the camp, in the southern forest district, a kind of Central European agricultural meeting, in which the Swiss Farmers' Association with President and Director, as well as the South Tyrol Farmer's Bundesobmann with Director as well as the Austrian and Bavarian farmers took part. There, the Swiss have particularly complained that on the European market, they no longer find outlets to lose market shares. While the Swiss borders become more permeable among consumers, the Swiss are no longer able to raise their cattle outside their country. The Swiss are also approaching the supply of cereals for self-sufficiency and have major difficulties, as they have until now partly financed their agricultural policy through very high levies on cereals imports. Before joining the EU, we have always seen the oberItalian area as a market of hope for the Austrian farmers, and this market of hope has proved true. Last year, compared to one year earlier, we were able to increase agricultural exports to Italy by 83 percent, to a volume of more than 5 billion schilling, and in the first half of this year – the statistics present – this trend continued. We were able to deliver some 500 000 tonnes of cereals last year and 200 000 tonnes of raw milk or drinking milk to Italy for the first time. Before that, because of the EU's external border, a milk supply to Italy – we only had a contract for the export of cheese – was made impossible at all. In other words, we were able to obtain the market with the EU accession, which admittedly also brought difficulties for farmers – I have already shown it –. Of course, it is depressing if the price of cereals falls to half within weeks, the price of cattle falls by 25 percent and the price of milk by 33 percent. This is, of course, psychologically depressing for the individual farmer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! They know exactly that the GATT provisions already made the first difficulties in 1995. Without accession to the EU, we would have been forced to reduce the supported agricultural exports first in 1995 and, secondly, to reduce funding by another 6 percent in this year. That would have brought us the same price decline. The Swiss also complains that the price of cattle in their country has fallen to half within one year. I only received a message this week: The Swiss consider burning 200 000 cattle, so to speak, to catch the backlog on the market and on the other hand, because they also have a number of BSE cases to signal that all suspects are being burned in order to regain more confidence from consumers. That's why we're here for the future. In future measures, attention should be paid primarily to the domestic market and to consumer confidence in our domestic beef. For these reasons, we will ask Europe-wide – and also Commissioner Fischler has announced – for designations of origin for beef, so to speak, up to the supermarket. This will certainly create a great red tape, but it is not to be avoided. But this is worth it if we regain the confidence of consumers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Haider said today in his speech that last year 12 400 farmers had stopped managing their farm. That's not true. On the basis of the figures of the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture and the Green Report, I have precisely determined: There have been some 3,000 farms locked up last year. That's about 1 percent. This is in the long-term trend and on average. It is also very small farms that have stopped farming. However, there are many full-time farms in the Court's transfers, where full-time farmers have retired and where the transferee already has a profession outside of agriculture and when the court has not given up the profession, he has become auxiliary farms. But that's not a "died" farmer for me. But this reflects the attitude of the FPÖ to the additional workers: A utility farmer is a "died" farmer for them. Due to our size structure – it is 135 000 Austrian businesses less than 10 hectares – we have structurally dependent, many ancillary businesses. For these reasons, we have to make an agricultural policy that takes account of full-time, up-to-date and up-to-date enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another wish for European integration – the EU enlargement towards the East will continue for many years due to the high income differences – is the ecologicalisation of agriculture. In strengthening the European integration of the current 15 members, we will consider this – as Austria has a particularly ecological attitude and in Austria we have also implemented the largest environmental package of all 15 EU countries: 180 000 farmers from Austria have participated in the environmental programme, with a cost of 7.4 billion, which will be a billion higher this year – that higher environmental standards and more stringent animal welfare regulations are introduced across Europe. For one thing cannot be: that we ban many things in Austria and then come in to us much worse products. Another measure, however, which must be implemented in Austria: As a result of the much lower prices, we have taken less VAT. However, the investments are being made to a greater extent by our farmers. In this year there was a new boom. This means that we need a better account of the pre-tax in order to be able to find a balance again. Otherwise, all farmers would be forced to book the VAT. However, this would mean more processing of 250 000 applications or tax documents for the financial offices. I hope there will be talks about this in the next few days to achieve a fair pre-tax adjustment. Finally, I would like to make a comment on Mr Prinzhorn, who was particularly concerned with environmental protection. The yesterday issue of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" reads: "Wald badly damaged, Halali on deer and deer!" – In the area of Parliamentary Prinzhorn in Mur im Lungau, such forest devastations have arisen that on an area of 800 meters in the surrounding area, no young people can grow up at all and everything is damaged. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Because the Schwarzenberger was there!]] The Authority has ordered a forced fire of 100 pieces of red game, 65 gems and 30 deer by the end of this year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should draw the attention of Mr Prinzhorn: This kind of forest devastation is punishable. In an advertisement, he is expected to face a judicial persecution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16746	Mr Haigermoser is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e16767	There's a lot to say, ladies and gentlemen. I have already feared that today, in the early morning, when the debate, which relates to the works contracts, was held once again over the media that the EIA is falling over again. This is, of course, one of the general conditions in the economy. Once again, the ÖVP has made it possible to fall by lying down. That's nothing new! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It will also be very interesting if we meet at the Wallstatt of the Vienna election – Görg is right against the rest of the ÖVP. Now to the Schwarzenbergerische Farmer's speech. After your speech, Mr Schwarzenberger, I am no longer surprised that you can only take part in your meetings with the farmers in Salzburg. That doesn't surprise me anymore! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's where you confuse me with Haider!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! No word from you about the price drop in the cattle. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I said that the price of cattle fell by 25 percent!]] No word on the price of cereals exported to Italy. No word about all these things! In addition, colleagues: From the average income of farmers, the farmer cannot live under this average income. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Sure!]] To go home with statistics and to believe that farmers' problems can be solved is, in other words, unreasonable. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why did you lose so much in Styria during the agricultural chamber election?]] Let us stick to this issue, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know that agriculture has problems... [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Schwarzenberger.]] Stop these calamities at last! Oh, my God, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That doesn't bring us any further. We wanted to solve farmers' problems together, as we did briefly, when you came out of the traps of the socialist coalition once a bit – before Christmas, before the National Council election – for which farmers were able to do together after the socialists had long resisted. You should think about this and not go polemically home with red-wild shells. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I just quoted yesterday's "Salzburger Nachrichten"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Returning to the debate on Europe: Again: We liberals are Europeans with passion, but with this same passion we will defend ourselves against the equalizing Maastricht Europe of socialists, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ:Oh!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Be against it!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a qualitative difference: I am aware that I have spoken in favour of Europe, but I am not in favour of going here now and drawing Austria and the smaller countries in Europe over the EU, Maastricht and the Eurocurrency, as it is obvious that hums with Mr Bartenstein have succeeded; this has been transferred to Europe, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, you will not have us at your side when it comes to abolishing the schilling with the euro. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know that you have failed in your negotiations in the EU with regard to the representation of Austrian interests, whether it be the transit agreement or the contribution payments. No less than Mr Karl Schlögl said after accession that we could be more self-confident in Brussels. This means, therefore, that one has not previously acted self-confidently enough, has, as has been said, been pulled over the table, ladies and gentlemen, and, like the rabbit, has been afraid of Brussels before the serpent. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, there was no word for the closure of money in Brussels, as the European Court of Auditors itself did. The European Court of Auditors has found that in Brussels in the euro area there is a billion holes in which the billions are suffocating, in large areas, and the criticism of the European Court of Auditors has not given any fruit. That means that it is interesting to note that for 14 percent – you hear and marvel: for 14 percent! – the European budget or expenditure arising from this budget cannot be found in any evidence. You don't know where the money came from. It's in the middle of something. I hope that it is not ensnared in the catches of the Social Democrats in Belgium as a result of the red scandal. I don't hope so, nor do I. But at least, ladies and gentlemen, it must be noted that the budget of the European Union is exploding by 8.4 percent. Three times as high as the national budgets, this budget accelerates. In addition, the expenditure of the European Union has been reduced between 1980 and 1996. This means that we should consider how the contribution payments to the EU from Austria will be made in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian contribution: 50 billion schilling in the first year, 26 billion schilling of the other, hastening to 30 billion schilling. This means that Austria is paying disproportionately, and that in times like these, where you are looking at a package of savings for the Austrians, you are looking for a package of stress that is similar to that of the Austrians. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your diction is looking for "his equal"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this letter, which he has sent back to the pensioners as a repeater, we have been caught up in fresh action – he has almost lost himself – now before the election of the European Parliament, in which he promises: We guarantee the pensions! – He has not guaranteed anything, he has only guaranteed that the pensioners and the poorest of the poor will be asked to cash back. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That hurts you!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: So much nonsense!]] He, Franz Vrannitzky, has literally said today that he wants to intervene for the correct use of the taxpayers' money. I believe he should do so in Brussels too. 14 per cent sluggish in dark channels, ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure that's not how it goes. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Probably at the Haigermoser!]] We therefore call for renegotiations in the EU with regard to Austrian contribution payments, and I therefore propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is why we are calling for this, because it is interesting that Luxembourg, one of the richest, if not the richest country in the European Union, is a net recipient. So we Austrians pay for the rich Luxembourgers. That can't be true! By the way, also for Denmark and Belgium. In Belgium, there was a single socialist policy, but it was only in brackets. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: They kill each other, the socios!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They are always so proud of the Socialist International. You should look at who you're sitting in there with! All of them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You don't have an international at all!]] You should look at who you are sitting in the Socialist International: with a Mr. Craxi, with a Mr. Emmanueleli, with the socialists from Belgium, with Mrs. Ritt Bjerregaard, who has disappeared from a social housing, et cetera, et cetera. [[Abg.Your comrades!]] You should be ashamed! If you have a spark, distance yourself from these rulerships, Mr. Collegna. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Well: Wilhelm Henke, the former boss... [[Abg. Parnigoni: You alone!]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] I feel very comfortable with my solitude, Mr Parnigoni. I don't want to be with those people who take the money out of the bag with you in the Socialist International. Well: What does Wilhelm Henke, the former head of the Hessian Landesbank, say about the euro? – He says: "The introduction of a common European currency against the need to gain confidence in international investors and in financial markets will lead to a massive capital flight and high interest rates that will trigger a severe stability crisis in the EU. The true beneficiaries of monetary union, as specified in the Maastricht Treaty, would be the dollar and the yen." – End of quote. Wilhelm Henke is not a liberal, I do not know the Lord, he is an expert, as I have been told, an international expert in the monetary sector. It notes that the introduction of the euro will cause a huge disaster in Europe at the specified time. – The main sufferers will be the Austrian citizens, among other things, because, because of your contribution negotiations, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition Government, we have to pay too much, as I have already mentioned, and this will have to continue to do with the percentages you have negotiated. That is why we are calling for renegotiations for British patterns. Britain has negotiated a British discount, as we say in Europe. 4.7 billion DM deposit has Thatcher – you should take an example! – requested back from the European cash registers. This means that it is possible to conduct such negotiations successfully if one is not afraid of Brussels, as Schlögl has said. I don't wonder that the saying makes the round: If he thinks of Brussels at night, he's been put to sleep. Ladies and gentlemen! This statement is not from me, but from no less than CSU chief Stoiber, interestingly a successful neo-conservative politician, who sees a great deal of freedom and, as Minister of Finance Waigel also notes, that the contribution payments of the Federal Republic of Germany can no longer go that way and therefore be taken into account by the Federal Republic of Germany's corresponding renegotiations. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that your outcome of the negotiations was a disaster. ==References== In March 1994, Häupl said that he was pleased about the results of the negotiations. Now, Mr Häupl's posthorn tones are frozen. He is once again on the trip of Mr Ettl from SPÖ, who finally finds that there are also strong social inconsistencies as a result of your negotiation of the contract, i.e. those contracts. You don't need to add anything to it!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17079	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Haigermoser has read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17103	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in such a serious debate on employment, economics and jobs, there should again be a little more materiality. That is why I would like in principle... [[Call to the liberals: I don't know myself at all!]] Well, if one does not deal with the analyses, but here always argues only polemically, then I can imagine that you are losing sight of the essential and the matter, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The current structural changes in the economy are largely perceived as a crisis-like development. Old, used, is threatened in his inventory. Businesses are facing increased competition and rationalisation pressure, and workers are at risk of their jobs. This development exists both in Europe and in the USA – which is not limited to a country alone – but also in other industrial regions of the world there is a rapid rapid structural change. Key features of this change are the increasing internationalisation and globalisation of the economy. The production, purchase and sale of resources and goods is being organised on a global scale by more and more companies, especially large corporations. This development and the application of new technologies push into all areas of production and life and radically change the organizational, working and living conditions. In line with this, the life cycles and manufacturing methods of products are also reduced, and the international division of labour causes changes and saturation trends in traditional markets. At the same time, industries migrate from industrial centres to peripheral regions and emerging economies or to third world countries. Accelerately, we are aware of this very clearly, this process is being accelerated by the opening of the markets of Eastern Europe. In addition to the demigration of entire industries, various areas of production are outsourced from companies, thus exploiting the pay gap, but also the most diverse levels of load caused by environmental and labour protection requirements to increase the profit situation. First of all, this is the analysis. Rationalisation of production is an essential feature of the economy. More and more products and services are produced with fewer and fewer workers. So far, these rationalization measures have focused on the division of labour and automation of the product process in large quantities. With the new management method, the so-called Lean production, the entire organisational process is at the heart of the optimization efforts. The aim here is a smooth, fast and improved design of the production flow in the form of a self-regulating and optimised group work. In addition, a new quality requirement in the form of the zero error target is sought. These modernisation strategies also include, as is known in all industrial sectors, the Just-in-time relationship with the respective suppliers and dealers. The aim is to drastically reduce throughput times, eliminate errors, eliminate buffer zones, minimize time for research, development and construction, reduce storage times or eliminate them at all, and thus reduce the necessary working time and thus also employment. These are the facts that we need to deal with in the future! The rationalization effects are also evident in my federal state, in Upper Austria. The three main sectors of the economy are moving in line with a long-term trend, according to which the service sector will become a dominant field of employment in the future. If the proportion of self-employed workers in Upper Austria was about 49 percent in 1986 in the production of property and in the service sector, the proportion of employees in 1994 in the production of property fell to 42.4 percent, while in the service sector almost 57 percent were self-employed. Employment and economic and monetary union, these are the issues that are very important to us. However, the importance of employment policy is clearly underexplained in the Maastricht Treaties. In these Treaties, Member States committed themselves only to achieving a high level of employment, and the focus of the concept of economic and monetary union is thus clearly limited to fiscal and monetary size. This is why it is so important to us in the EU, and German chancellor Vrannitzky has emphasized today in his contribution that employment and employment policy must be taken as seriously as the single currency. I can only underline that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of the already dramatic situation in the labour market, employment policy must simply be given greater priority. The EU's employment efforts – worth mentioning for this is the White Paper on growth, competitiveness, employment and Essen's initiative – are extremely welcome, but only a small step in the right direction. All efforts must therefore be made to address the problem of mass unemployment effectively. Entrepreneurship often requires only victims. Only in the case of low pay, reduced worker protection, flexible working hours could jobs be kept: Unfortunately, God is now heard very often. At the same time, however, social benefits are always required to be reduced because they are too expensive and undermine the morale of work. From the point of view of an individual entrepreneur, this argument may be understandable in the case of superficial consideration. If competitors can offer the same product cheaper, because they obviously have a somewhat cheaper cost structure, the different framework conditions are compared and defined as a cause for their own, worse position. The different structures have grown historically, but with different conditions, each economic subject must ultimately always calculate. However, it cannot be concluded that income levels such as those in Eastern Europe would also be sought in Austria. Finally, a reduction in wages and salaries means a reduction in living standards to the corresponding level, and a reduction in private demand would only reinforce the perceived crisis and lead to a real economic crisis. I must return to Vranitzky, who said today that wage reduction and social dumping must not be a means of ensuring employment. Only: It is significant that in this passage only the left side of this House has applauded; I have taken very close care of that. In most sectors, staff costs, including social contributions, are increasingly subordinate due to high productivity. In many industries, wages and salaries account for only 15 to 35 percent of the total cost. There is therefore no reason for competitiveness alone. Most of the costs are due to intermediate purchases and capital costs. Competitiveness is therefore the result of a large number of factors and in no way equivalent to labour costs. This insanity is repeatedly expressed in the allegation – which is, of course, also underlined – that, for example, the high labour costs are driving the farms into ruin. This clearly contradicts a study by the credit protection association, which has also clearly established that 86 percent of all insolvencys are in debt by the company itself. I don't want to go into the details here at all. This means that personnel costs play only a subordinate role in the modern labour market and internationally interconnected economy in most sectors. In the automotive industry – recently said a top manager – the supply structures are more crucial for costs than labour costs. According to calculations by the Economic Research Institute, Austria's industry had an average personnel cost of 25.7 percent – again: The trend is falling. In most cases there is also the question of additional wage costs, which I do not want to address anymore, because they have already been sufficiently discussed in this House. It is not the cost of labour, but the total cost of labour, ladies and gentlemen, that is, the total cost of labour in terms of productivity and unit labour costs. Austria has very good values in this respect too. Hourly productivity in Austrian industry has increased by 4.9% annually, with the EU average of 3.6 percent in recent years. Neither Japan – plus 1.7 percent – nor the World Champion USA – plus 2.9 percent – were able to hold on to this. The conclusion is therefore as follows: For the competitiveness of our economy, people are of particular importance. Only well-trained motivated people can achieve the quality of work that meets the new requirements. The reduction in wages and social benefits will not create the necessary creativity and innovative capacity needed to develop new products, adapt new technologies, new market strategies and new organisational methods. Let us do everything we can to achieve these goals!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17153	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17174	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate deals with the two statements made by the members of the Government on economic and integration issues. This is perhaps to be remembered at this late hour. I would have a social policy entry on this subject. From the economic and integration policy point of view, this means – also against the background of the upcoming 13. October and EU elections –: How to assess the location question of Austria? Of course, the question of Austria's location has not only an economic dimension, but also a social dimension, because these two dimensions are inseparably related. Especially today afternoon we had the opportunity to take one or another trip in areas of Austrian social policy. It is very important to me to add something to this. It is always only welcome to discuss costs and aspects of security. One element is completely forgotten, however, and it is an essential element of social policy: the reliability of the assessment of how it continues. And on this point, I have the strong impression that the Federal Chancellor was rather wordless, that Mr Vice-Chancellor was more economical and that the previous debates by colleagues from the government groups were rather equipped with white spots. However, the question of the decision-making of a competitive economy is not only a question of the level of costs – that is also an aspect – but also a question of the reliability of the development of the structures, the reliability of the development of costs and a question of the reliability of the legal order of the area in which one wants to settle. These three aspects have recently been largely neglected by government policy by presenting a spectacle that not only in Austria, but also in the internal political scene in part causes some sorrow, in some cases black humor: that is, as an example, the debate about trying to achieve more social security by creating the so-called work contract regime. It has already been discussed, but I would like to highlight a very important aspect. If we continue to have one paper in April, the next one in May, the whole one on 1 April. In June, let us enter into force, then in July, a first retroactive novelle and now experience a crisis summit after another, until we are probably or perhaps not – but there is still no request from the government or the government parties – possibly the next and again retroactive novel, but with the aspect that perhaps not everything can be repaired retroactively, because some of the contributions have already been made, some of which have already been issued in the form of health certificates, have already been taken advantage of, if we continue to do so, then this does not only harm Austrian social policy, because here social arguments are actually being made quickly money, which will then result in increased expenditure, which is disproportionate, but it also harms the economic location in its value. I say it again: Not only the amount of costs is the essential factor in an investment decision – whether it be the level of labour costs as an element of the costs and in it may hide the amount of social security costs; this is certainly also an aspect. (a) the reliability of the development of such costs; These are elements that occasionally deter or encourage investors. Economic accounts are not made in the revenue-expenditure form of social security institutions, but are organised in multi-annual previews, in five-year or ten-year accounts. If today it is no longer possible to set up a viable economic account for any investment, because one cannot even estimate exactly what this means at the level, for example, of social costs as one of the components, because one does not know exactly how these will develop, then it is worse than if they are at least there or there too high. Indeed, an unforeseen development is something that will cause investors to suspend or postpone the decision or to make it different. I would therefore like to highlight this very clearly, because the inseparability of economic and social policy will manifest once again on this issue. But it is precisely us from the Liberal Forum, which is more often accused of having no problems with the so-called social cold, that it is a particular concern – and I would like to tell you this from this speaker’s point of view – that social systems function well because, from our point of view, social policy is peace-building policy, policies that are there to ensure, develop and develop peaceful development in a society at the existential level. In this sense, social policy is a completely inseparable part of economic policy and vice versa. There is no Either-or, but only one-so-also. However, you operate social policy by constantly discussing and changing working contract regulations of the kind discussed every few weeks and months, instead of at last making the real reform that you, as the Federal Government, which has been ruling in the current constellation since 1987, have remained guilty for almost 10 years. It is not true that this need for reform has suddenly emerged. This is a problem that has long been known. There is something sold as a great deal of agreement, but the follow-up does not come, the request does not come, and as part of the announcement of the great agreement, the members of the government in front of the cameras say at the same time: Yes, but we must make the real reform first, now we will set up a working group. That's where I ask you: Why have you never given your approval to the many initiatives we have taken in this direction, for example when we tabled a motion for a resolution on the harmonization of the terms of service? This would also be a first and necessary step towards harmonising social security rights, where we have done nothing but ask the Federal Government to propose an operating plan, as it intends to do in the harmonisation of pension rights, in the harmonisation of service rights. This has been rejected, and now that we are vehemently committed to the withdrawal of this absolute brush to the square, this trade agreement system, so that a genuine reform can take place, it is assumed that we would have expressed this wish, because we may not have wanted social security for people at all. This is the first time that Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties do not understand that, if something that is hopeless is called for, it should be taken back, which does not mean that one considers that there is no real need for a solution to this problem. If a false solution is taken back, it does not mean that one should fall into inactivity, but that means that one must afford it as a condition to jump over one's own shadow in order to be able to make a genuine reform credible. That is why it has sometimes happened to me as if both the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor were here in pastoral form with a worn voice empty formal appeal, addressed to the 13th. October and to the kind voters, who would have given of themselves – appeals without a statement of substance, such as that you may stand together. This already has its accuracy in this sense, but it can be expected that the government that exercises the executive power will perceive this executive power in such a way that it is easy for one to stand by, that it will not be difficult for one to stand together. If, moreover, – and this has already been said several times – occasionally, if problems are not solved, the causes of the European Union are sought, and at the same time one regrets that Austrian citizens have so little understanding that it makes sense for us to be in the European Union, then I must say that there is really an evil game here! In this sense to the end: If you do not succeed in the shortest possible period – and that is the next days before the 1. October – on the question of working contracts, that it is possible to admit once that something has been corrupted from A to Z and that this is the only chance to come to a real social security of the many people you are always talking about, that you want to secure them, but at the same time you raise the contribution limit to 7 000 S, so that people under it are not socially insured – in your division – if you do not do so, then you will make a further contribution to increasing democracy – and I do not say political corruption – in this country by means of government policy. This is the sharpest accusation that can be made by a democratically legitimate government, that it may miss its real purpose of embodying democracy – as distinct and as elected – and that can lead to a real crisis – so small and so technologically the problem may be from your point of view, because it only hits a few "quenched cultural creators" and only a few "necessary" who are trying to make themselves independent and have therefore gone through the work contract path; because it only meets a few people who, in the event of doubt, are neither sitting in this House nor in the chambers – whether it is AK or the Chamber of Commerce – who are not members of the trade union alliance and who are not otherwise present in the traditional organizations in which you are at home, but to whom you have apparently returned, in the sense of a sort of fortification mental as well as spatial. If you are unable to admit, at least once, that you have made a very serious, fundamental mistake, then you will still have many, many years to bear in the loss of credibility, and we will certainly not miss it as long as it goes to point out: Here is deliberately ignored an error that the last colporteur has now understood. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17246	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17267	Mr President. Dear ladies! Gentlemen! There has already been a great deal of discussion under this item on the agenda – from European integration to the Austrian economy to the work contract regime. I would like to focus again on the question of integration. Two years ago, after a clear popular decision, when we made our way towards the European Union, we also knew that there would be a lot of difficulties in adapting. But it was – and this balance sheet can be drawn after two years – an indispensable measure. This step has brought many benefits to Austria in order to ensure our high social and economic standard in the future. Especially in the economic sector, in the social field, but also in the environmental field, the links are more global and cannot be resolved internally. I would also like to stress, however, that we have joined at a time when public budgets in Europe, if not even in the world, have been removed from the joints. Reforms were announced, necessary, with or without EU accession. Unfortunately, however, this problem is often mixed, simplified and too populistly presented with EU accession. Many of my previous speakers have already stressed the benefits of joining the EU. There are enough examples for this. I mention, for example, the removal of border controls in the transport of goods, the removal of disadvantages in the passive processing of wages; this was very important for the Burgenland. Without this departure, many businesses in Burgenland could no longer have existed. I would also like to stress foreign direct investment, but above all regional support. – After all, 21.6 billion schilling are available from the EU for regional funding by 1999. Here I refer above all to the Burgenland as a Objective 1 area. This country benefits most! There is a lot of talk about the net payer: We Burgenländer are "net winners", say winners of a billion schilling! After all, 2.4 billion schillings will flow from funding posts towards Burgenland by 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! You can now look at the balance sheet: In the industrial sector, in research and development and in tourism – I am talking about Burgenland – almost 1 billion schilling has already been triggered. These promotions and the establishments that have sought to promote them can also be seen! I am not the opinion of Mr Prinzhorn, who meant that it was nothing but anything, and he, as an example, referred to the lyocell plant. - That's a good thing! Even larger projects are bringing something to the Burgenland, which has enormous economic resources. There are enough synergies. You just need to look at the supply industry. There are, therefore, a lot of synergies that are already taking place economically in Burgenland, not to mention Community initiatives, the decline in inflation, education programmes and so on. There are numerous advantages. However, you can find a problem for any advantage – I agree with you already. It is not all vain wonder, but there are more advantages than disadvantages under the line. That's fact. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now to the mood: I admit that due to adaptation measures, but also in the field of technical assistance handling, problems sometimes arise. I admit that labour market and labour market policy must also become important areas within the EU. New fields of tension also occur: I believe that there will no longer be the classical struggle between employers and workers in the future. However, there will be new areas of tension, i.e. gaps between protected and unprotected areas, between those who have work and those who have no work, between young and old, between those who are solidaric and those who are not solidarian, between those who continue their education and those who are completely opposed to training and lifelong learning. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Fragment lines between Pragmatized and not Pragmatized!]] There are a lot of questions and we are all required. I ask you: Where would we be now if Austria hadn't taken this step two years ago? – Especially the ÖVP is the European Party, it was already under Leopold Figl, it was and is it under Alois Mock, Erhard Busek and now under Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] We are in favour of this accession, and we are also dealing with all the problems associated with it, Mr Schweitzer. We will therefore be until the 13th century. In October, they tried to inform the people so that this course could continue after the 13th. Because it cannot matter which party, like many Euro MPs, places after the 13th. It is often misunderstood: ==References== October is not about a yes or no to the EU, but about the future course to follow the course after 13th. Finally, Mr Schweitzer, I would like to say a few sentences about the FPÖ slogan, because you listen to me in a strange way and are also Burgenländer – with the past, as I read: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] They place everywhere "election day is payday". Mr Schweitzer, listen to me! ==References== October too. That's right, I'm right about you. However, it is not the EU's election, but the second election, which I would like to call it the re-election of the National Council. Well, you know, you've been fighting this one. And it stands when you get twelve more votes, 50 million schilling from tax money at stake. This is your payday! That's actually what you want! They want to go after the 13th. October 50 million schillings from tax funds more on hand, just because your party manager forgot to seek reimbursement at the time, and because you are trying to abuse two localities in Austria – one is my home community, Donnerskirchen – for your games. [[Abg. Trenk: You're cashing too!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] – I will go from house to house and I will specifically point out in Donnerskirchen that it is not about people there, but only about money. That is what we must say to the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is too serious for me to address this issue of EU election in order to go further here. I would now like to quote something: an extract from Klaus Maria Brandauer's speech on the occasion of the opening of the Bruckner Festival in September 1996. – I quote: "Austria has grown up, and we have declared ourselves to be an equivalent and important partner in our decision for Europe. Also, any frustrations of the first transitional period will not lead us to immature spite reactions. A so-called election of protest, in which we vote unconvinced and for short-sighted and short-term reasons for a party that we would never choose under other circumstances, would be the wrong signal to an open Europe." I think it is necessary for the population to do so, and this must be said very strongly to the electorate. ==References== More about October: It is a question of peacekeeping in Europe, of maintaining our ecological standard, of the future economic location, of security prospects. That is why we need the best in the EU Parliament, and we need couragemakers and no swindlers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17363	High house! Before I call on the next Member, I have to return to the somewhat unpleasant events that took place during my previous presidency. First of all, I would like to point out that there were a number of errors caused by certain calls. For example, Mr Klubobmann Khol has assumed that Mr Klubobmann Haider referred to Schüssel as a mental disease. The Minutes show that Mr Haider's call for tender read as follows: "You" - that is, Mr. Vice-Chancellor - "can't explain a deputies as mentally ill." On the other hand, there is also an error of Mr Dr. Haider. He believed that Mr. Vice-Chancellor had insulted Mr. Prinzhorn as a "wirr". In fact, the protocol states that Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel spoke of "disrepute statements". Nevertheless, I think that the choice of words by some speakers was extremely unfortunate. I therefore call on Mr Prinzhorn to order the use of the word twice, which in fact can be regarded as an accusation of the lie in this context. I would also like to say to Mr Haider, Mr President of the Commission, that he said: "When the honourable Member speaks of lies..." and so on, which is also to be understood as an accusation of the lie. I regret that this first day of the sitting begins with two calls for orders, but I would also like to know this as a warning that we should maintain a language appropriate to the House during this part-session. I would ask all the political groups to do this. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I take my accusation to Mr. Haider, he said that bowl was sick, back and excuse me!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That will be recorded, thank you very much! Mr Van der Bellen has now been reported to the House. - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17404	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not talking today about accession to the EU. Thank God we have this behind us. Nor do we talk about leaving the EU, but about the future behaviour of the Federal Government as our representative at the Intergovernmental Conference within the framework of the European Union. Before joining the EU, the Federal Government has repeatedly promised to work towards an active social policy, an active environmental policy and a peace policy consistent with Austrian traditions. And the Austrian policy positions for the EU Government Conference also include the demands for a stronger fight against unemployment, both at national and international level, i.e. at European level, and for an environmental orientation of Community policy. – I am talking about official documents here. The Greens have prepared a long resolution for today. This motion for a resolution is intended to provide the Federal Government with certain guidelines to be taken into account in the current Intergovernmental Conference on the reform of the EU Treaties. Please note: The guidelines contain not, in themselves, new new, but they quote existing positions of the SPÖ as well as the ÖVP. It is simply a matter of making these positions binding by the National Council taking them as a resolution or in individual points somewhat more concrete than we have heard today in the Government Declaration No. – I do not know which number to give it – three or four today from the Government Bank. The Greens submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You get the text of the application, I think, in photocopy on your benches. The motion for a resolution contains three points: One concerns the European Social and Employment Union, the second is environmental standards and the third is neutrality. Monetary union – which has already been stressed by many speakers today – is expected to have many positive effects. The extent to which they will occur is scientifically controversial. I believe that there is no dispute, but that we cannot wait for monetary union to enter into force with employment policy measures. Employment policies must now be put in place without delay. This claim, ladies and gentlemen, is not sensational. Similar or similar identical identicals have SPÖ and ÖVP, German Chancellor Vranitzky and Vice Chancellor Schüssel have also said. I would now like to present to you the ten points on the first point of the motion for a resolution, on the employment union. I will always say, so to speak, between brackets, to whom the point refers, Vranitzky or bowl, as a short quote for the source you find in your text. . I am excited how you will deal with this request, whether you agree or reject it. Point one (Vranitzky): In view of the so far unsatisfying progress in meeting the convergence criteria, the economic and monetary union project must in no way lead to a social reduction within the European Union. Point two (cue): Although fiscal consolidation is currently making offensive employment measures more difficult. However, given the dramatic situation in the European labour market, it would certainly be wrong to wait for employment policies until monetary union enters into force. Point three (Vranitzky): As part of the interpretation of the convergence criteria, the debt criterion should not be considered too narrow, as it is economically inconceivable, as it says little about the actual budgetary problems and would be an unjustified obstacle to participation in EMU for many countries. – I leave three sentences now and continue down (ever still Vranckky): The deficit criterion should be more geared to the structural deficit in order to maintain economic areas for counter-taxation in economic exceptional situations. Point four (Vranitzky): After the entry into force of monetary union, there must not be a permanent restrictive policy. Therefore, efforts aimed at strengthening the convergence criteria after entry into the third stage should be rejected. This would be economically unreasonable and would slow down the development of the Community. Point five (Vranitzky): The objective of full employment must be explicitly enshrined in the Treaty. Point six (cue): Employment is to be included as a priority objective in the EU Treaties. Point seven (cue): The EU must develop into the social union. Point eight (Vranitzky): Social dumping must be prevented by uniform minimum social standards at the highest possible level. Point nine (Vranitzky): In the area of financing, retransmissions in the Community budget should not be taboo, and employment-enhancing projects should be accelerated. Point ten (cue): The EU as a large economic block must use its strength and influence to ensure that the international trade agreements take account of social standards as part of economic conditions. The basis for a just world economy must be political decisions based not only on free world trade but also on new solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen! All of these are reasonable, partly also literal, quotations of statements by Vranitzky and Schüssel or corresponding party documents, of which one can assume that they have the place of the chairmen. We therefore expect, of course, that: You agree to these points, as we give you our consent. Second point of the motion for a resolution: Environmental standards. I did not find an explicit quote for this, but I believe that because of the relevant speeches made by our top politicians of the Federal Government, it is quite clear that they have promised to join the EU at that time or that they have promised to do so. "The Federal Government is invited to work at EU level for the rapid adoption of higher standards by the EU in those cases where Austrian environmental standards are higher than those of the EU." You remember: That was part of the understanding before the 1994 referendum. "Should the EU be until 1. January 1999, the expiry of the Joint Declaration No. 7 (Revision of the acquis communautaire), which has not been adopted by higher Austrian standards, the Federal Government is invited to adopt the higher Austrian standards on the basis of a kind. 100a (4) to continue to maintain "that is to dare the national single entry. That was part of the understanding at the time. Finally, on point three, neutrality. I have noted with a certain satisfaction in the last three or four months that all parties, even those who are for a task of neutrality and who are in favour of NATO accession or WEU accession, are, after all, in favour of a referendum before the task of neutrality. The position of the Greens is not a task of neutrality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if the government parties, which we cannot prevent, decide to give up this path – and I well remember countless statements by Minister of Defense Fassleven on this issue – and this attitude prevails, then at least a referendum must be held. The third point is therefore: "The Federal Government is invited to present a government template which will create the conditions for any revision of the Maastricht Treaty, which will lead to a further involvement of the WEU in the EU's security policy, as well as for an Austrian WEU or NATO accession to a 'popular vote on the future of the ever-ending neutrality of Austria'." I do not think these points are controversial. If you do not agree with them, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, ÖVP, Free and Liberals, then disavow your own statements. If you agree with them, we should, of course, be right. Shortly to today's government statement – I don't know which number to give it – by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky. It is, of course, very much contained in it, which one can quite agree with. This was also the case with the previous government declarations. The question is always: When will this finally be implemented, or why is there nothing in the budget programme about it? – For example, I read on pages 16 and 17 of the German Chancellor's statement that we should pay great attention to the new products and technologies or put them where we, that is, the Austrians, are at home. There is talk of the high level of training of our workers, of social security, of a large and fully functioning administration and recognized universities. That's where I've been sucking. "Exposed universities" are wonderful, but what has happened for half a year? – I need You don't remember how the universities are being dealt with! I have quoted the environmental standards as part of our motion for a resolution: The Federal Chancellor is also of this opinion: For this reason, we also – and so on – stand up for the approximation of European environmental standards. – Page 18. I therefore believe that SPÖ and ÖVP could very well agree with our motion for a resolution. It finds itself very beautiful and very good, as well as so far. But when is the starter wave, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder? I hope that this wave of founders will soon come together on us! We've been waiting for it for a year now! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Don't beat her up, let her blossom!]] No matter if it blooms up or beats together, I hope it comes anyway. My colleague, Mr Oellinger, has already indicated what annoys you: We are now listening to the government statement from the government bank, and at the same time the Federal Government is presenting the new budget programme, a budget programme of the Federal Government, not a budget programme of the renowned Federal Minister for Finance. In the title is "Federal Ministry of Finance", by which it was created stop. But, of course, the Council of Ministers of the Federal Government had to accept and approve it, otherwise it should not have been sent to the National Council at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In this budget programme – which is well worth mentioning in the 1996 to 2000 budgets – it is possible not to mention a single number on 30 pages, I repeat: not a single number; on page 30 there is, however, one, but only one, namely, the only table in this document. But you can forget this table. This is because it is obvious that this table has taken the indicative values for the deficit from the convergence programme – this is 4.5, 3.0 percent and so on – and multiplied by the level of gross domestic product. This is how we determine the so-called net output, which is indicated here in billions of schilling. Then the expenditure and revenue have been affected in such a way that exactly this net end comes out. This is in no way understandable. That's what I feel like a cutback! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I should like to remind you that the term "budget programme" is not something that the Minister of Finance can possibly interpret, as he did on Tuesday morning before the meeting of the Council of Ministers. The budget programme is based on a law, namely the Federal Budget Act. In § 12 para. 2 C. 3 of the Federal Budget Act – I am not reading it to you in detail now – it says that the budget programme has to contain information – it does not mean that it can or should perhaps contain it back and forth, but it says: Information must be provided on the financial perspectives of the proposed legislative and other measures, as well as on projects, broken down according to the fields of activity of the budgetary institutions – parentheses on – (measure catalogue) parentheses. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm asking you: Is it a law order or any paper you can hold on to or not, depending on your desire and mood? I mean, What is available here is not a budget programme. I mean, If you want to have a good time, you can look at it. – The budget programme of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, for example, consists of: Dissolution of federal institutions – which is not said; Elimination of the national dairy institutions – this is an extra point; the breakdown of federal experimental economies; the distribution of federal gardens; decommissioning of construction sites; the breakdown of the BMLF computer centre; Reorganisation of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation services and promotions – one does not know exactly what is meant – in accordance with the agreement of 31. 1. In 1995, the Commission adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the This is the budget programme of the Ministry of Agriculture. Of eight points, seven are included. The only thing that is not distributed is the Ministry of Agriculture itself. Tax programme. I am now speaking on the subject very well. We are talking about the next four years of the Federal Government's economic and integration concept. That was the subject of today's explanation. Budgetary programme, Chapter 52, public levies. In this context, one-and-a-half-respective – apologise – are listed on two sides, which have already been decided on without exception, precisely in the Structural Adjustment Act 1996. It must be concluded, moreover, that the Federal Government is not planning any tax policy measures. I don't think so, but you have to get this impression: Everything planned will keep us away. Because today the Vice-President and Foreign Minister was also present, I would also like to not hide from you the budget programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After all, it is not very long: Point 1: Elimination of the Diplomatic Academy; Point 2: Distribution of German courses. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] – Finish! This is the budget programme of Chapter 20, Exterior! The only really interesting part of the budget programme is the qualitative statements on the administrative reform in the first part. These are absolutely interesting. Some people seem familiar to me. Similar things are already in the budget programme of the Greens from autumn 1995. But that's why it doesn't have to be bad. And interesting are the reform projects in the field of personnel expenditure – journalists of the "Press" have already found out. This is not only about the reduction of the ministries, which would still not generate much, or that there should be fewer Federal ministries at all, but it says: "Introduction of a calculation period for the calculation of pensions." I don't count similar points now. So we do not need to argue about whether there will be a savings package or not. Of course, there will be a package of savings, as it says, at least with regard to officials! And this has not come up with the bad climate, but the Federal Government has thought of it. This is the budget programme for the years 1996 to 2000. – I am having a good time here now, but I think I’m annoyed with it. I can remember that in April of this year, in the budget hearing, all the experts said that they were expecting some of the budget programme. Last year it didn't work so well, there was this difficult period of new elections and so on, the resignation of Lacina, then the poor Staribacher who didn't make it that fast. That's what you've seen. But this year, 1996 is presented by a Minister of Finance Climate, who is being traded as a successor to Federal Chancellor Vranitzky? – That is unreasonable, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17487	I declare that the motion for a resolution by Dr Van der Bellen and Comrades on the EU course corrections on social, environmental and peace-based basis has just been submitted in writing, is therefore sufficiently supported, is therefore under negotiation and in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be reproduced and shall also be printed in the minutes in this sense. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17597	Mr Edler has now been reported to speak. - I give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17619	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we summarize reports and discussions today and try to look at them objectively, then we can use it for ourselves that we are at the forefront of economic, labour market and social security in Europe and probably all over the world. – The Austrian way of giving impetus, so to speak, to employment policy was the right way, and I believe that employment policy must continue to take precedence for us. There are, of course, problems, they have been shown many times today. It is also not to be used in dyeing, but we must do everything we can to offer jobs to those people outside who are looking for work. If today we have often been addressed to integration, I think, from the Austrian point of view, we can be pleased to note that our representatives have succeeded in making employment policy very useful in the course of their work in the EU Parliament or in the Commissions or in the Intergovernmental Conferences. I believe that this idea has already included other countries in such a way that it can no longer be thought away within the EU. If we are currently certainly discussing the EU because of the election campaign, many people, including colleagues in the enterprises, are often involved in the process of bureaucracy of the EU. I believe that we Austrians have a lot to offer in this area and really have a hard time trying to reduce these bureaucracies, especially in the field of support projects. What is particularly appealing and to be welcomed from our point of view are the so-called TEN networks, the trans-European rail networks. These are certainly impulses for employment policy, and we also have to make them more concrete from the Austrian point of view, ladies and gentlemen. I do not think we should sleep or watch other countries try to get these transversals in their countries. In this context, I am particularly thinking of attempts by the so-called reform countries to become active in this sector. One point that has already been raised many times today concerns the frequent sale of Austrian companies to foreign investors. I'm not excited either, but that's just an inevitable fact in the life of the economy. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should also have a positive assessment of this situation. If, for example, we look at the first half of 1996, we can see that, compared to 1995, three times as many foreigners have been invested in Austria, so in the first half of the year, according to tomorrow's "Kurier" report, a total of around 17 billion schillings. I believe that this extremely positive result should be mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen! We also often compare ourselves with Switzerland and must therefore point out that we also know very critical reports from Switzerland. Even Switzerland has economic problems. There is a discussion in Switzerland about whether it was right at the time not to join the EU, whether we should try to open negotiations again, in order to have a place in this large single market, in this great European unity. We are economically, and I am particularly entitled to stress this as a Vienna MP, to put a certain pressure on the countries of the reform. When we look at the trade balance, we see – we still have around 16 billion shilling surplus – although we are superior, but I believe we are challenged to produce and deliver more quality in order to implement joint projects with these reform countries. The Austrian Federal Government has given impetus to what is happening to employment programmes in a timely manner – despite savings packages – and it is certainly welcome for us that these projects are now also under way, ladies and gentlemen. We receive from many companies – apart from some companies that certainly have problems – the news from both the management and the employees there, that they are very well aware that the job situation is good and that they have a better feeling about their job security, a certain degree of security is given. I think these employment impulses have been set in a timely manner. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only remind you briefly of the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, because it is a very important law that we agreed together a few weeks ago. I believe that this will give me the opportunity to take far-reaching measures in transport policy as well. First of all, we will certainly also achieve cost-effectiveness, as equal opportunities between road and rail are provided for entry, so that the railway will have certain advantages, and second, regional support programmes will be implemented. As a Vienna MP, I would particularly like to point out the so-called 30 billion schilling package between the Federal Government and the city of Vienna, which the mayor of Vienna, Dr. Häupl, has negotiated very persistently. The positive effects, as mentioned above, can be seen in the farms, not only in Vienna, but throughout the eastern region. We also need to provide impetus in the field of youth employment. In Vienna appropriate measures have already been taken, for example, consider the apprenticeship training places. In this respect, I should like to point out that in Vienna every training site is supported by 2 500 s per month. Despite these measures, 500 young people in Vienna currently have no chance of a training place. I therefore support the courageous decision of the President of the Vienna City School Council, Dr. Scholz. It has given rise to the fact that those young people who currently do not have a place of training can at least go to vocational school. We hope that, as there is a good basis for talking to the economy, training places can be found together in the next few days and weeks, so that these young people have an opportunity to learn a profession, because I believe that this is also a social-politically important aspect for us. Finally, I would like to point out a project that the city of Vienna cost more than 60 million Schilling, the so-called Vienna Workers' Fund. This will jointly implement projects: For example, training measures are being carried out, and in particular better conditions – through support measures – are created for those young people who are willing to take the step from the workers' sector to the self-employed entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now conclude. I believe that in the future we are jointly challenged to solve these problems. When we read into the literature of the practitioners, the theorists, the visionaries, we note that we need to share work in the future and that economic policy can only be made internationally. [[Abg. Trenk: If we have a job!]] We have clearly seen this approach, for example, by some businesses – for example, semperit. Other countries also have similar problems. As a result, we must look at economic policy and social policy internationally and seek a common solution here. Of importance is also the development of those people who seek work, want to work, and who are also willing to take advantage of even better training. There must be a chance of qualification measures. I think that better education means quality and is human capital – it has already been addressed today. That is what I consider to be our primary task. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17658	Mr Rosenstingl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17680	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The speech just given by Mr Edler was the living proof that social-democratic labour market policy has failed. I'm totally amazed! You stand out here and say: We are proud of our employment programmes! They obviously do not know that the unemployment rate in Austria is rising dramatically! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Dramatic rise?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We have the second-lowest of Europe!]] If it is your policy that you create employment programmes that produce more unemployed people, then I would just like to say one thing: Hopeful operation They are no longer a long job security policy – in the interests of Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I would like to deal with a completely different subject, since this - which I am very surprised about - has not yet been discussed in this debate at all, even from the government bank: Transport policy should be an essential part of our EU policy, and in this context the question of transit. We can say quite objectively today: The transit contract failed. That was foresaw. We liberals have already predicted this in the negotiations of the transit agreement, as the 1991 baseline values were overestimated or increased and therefore granted to the EU too many ecopoints. Another essential reason for the failure of the transit agreement was also the negotiations on the Accession Treaty. Because this EU accession treaty has led to a deterioration in the transit contract. And in this respect too, we have repeatedly drawn the attention of the liberals to the danger of a threat during the accession negotiations. Unfortunately, as always, I must say in this case, we have kept right. The number of trucks has increased since EU accession, and another rise in transit, which will soon take place, is ahead of us. It will therefore take place soon because the abolition of routine checks at borders will lead to an increase in illegal transport and because the liberalisation of bilateral transport and electronic eco-points settlement will give rise to abuse. The bilateral transport free of approval in 1997 makes it difficult to prevent trucks from passing through Austria without charging eco-points. I would like to refer once again to the EU Protocol in this context, which states that the control of transit journeys will be very difficult in Austria from 1997 onwards. This protocol warns us that the transit journeys will rise. But how does the Federal Government deal with this problem? She doesn't respond at all. Federal Minister Scholten – who has been assigned the transport resort and who knows nothing about it at all, because he has not yet been involved in it – has only succeeded in this regard: He has answered a question that we have addressed to him in connection with the transit problem in Austria completely wrong. [[Call to the liberals: This is nothing new!]] He does not commit any acts, he is incapable of averting damage from Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, there is another reason why truck transport in Austria will increase: because the EU wants to draw on the competence to negotiate bilateral quotas with the Eastern European countries. Furthermore, there is the draft Road Costs Directive, which does not include any protection for Austria, except in the so-called sensitive zones. This means that, especially in the east of Austria, transit traffic will increase enormously. Only a few days ago, the outcome of the Molitor investigation was announced, confirming that EU transit in Austria will increase by 47 percent by 2005. This reasoned assumption – and I do not think that anyone can really disprove the reasons contained in the study – will arrive because, as mentioned above, the government has failed in the transit agreement and in the accession negotiations. We have to note today that the transit agreement did not lead to a reduction, but, quite the contrary, to an increase in the number of transit journeys in Austria. We must therefore take rapid action in Austria. Decisions must be taken to protect the environment and the population in Austria. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really take the problem of transit in Austria seriously, if you also recognize the problems I have dealt with earlier, then you must accept this request to avoid damage from Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In particular, I call on the government groups to finally take measures in the field of transport in Austria in the interests of Austrian citizens and in the interest of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17792	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Puttinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17816	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The liberals want to make all of us aware that we would be better off without the EU in the present form, because then we would not need such a savings package, then we would not have to pay a net deficit and perhaps have no economic problems either. I am following the fact that we would not have to put our finances in order without EU membership and that we would have to deal much less with competition without EU membership in our economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now you didn't quite understand me!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I can say on this occasion that you have missed something. On today's day exactly 328 years ago, the duels have been abolished. If your group believes that it must continue to hold duels in Parliament, then your party really looks 328 years old. I'm so sorry! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Two more comments on the liberals. First: A economy without order and without a goal, but with a zigzag course I can and cannot imagine the ÖVP in any case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, you!]] Second, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Security policy can be seen from the point of view of social justice in Europe. Although this social policy is a net deficit, it is currently necessary and politically acceptable. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If you believe you don't have to be solidarian, if you don't believe in having to show loyalty, if you believe that with elbow technology you just have to pursue your own interest, then, I believe, you are really wrong in Europe! We believe – and we have an attitude to which we have stood, we stand and we will stand – that the Austrian economy clearly benefits from accession to the EU. This fact is recognizable 20 months after accession. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you only believe that!]] The fact is that border controls, border customs controls and the associated bureaucracy have been reduced. The fact is – and I am not the defender of Mr Ederer – that the prices of the products of daily consumption, including food – despite the constant unknowings here – have fallen substantially. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] The fact is, however, that an investment site has been created in Austria, which has allowed large investment decisions. [[Abg. Scheibner: We'll see if that's what people believe!]] I am thinking in particular of Opel, Leykam, BMW, but also of Kaindl in Salzburg. The fact is that this investment boom is continuing – it has already been said today. Thank God! Because of this, we now have a further 28 billion schilling to expect. The fact is that the Swiss industry in the EU has created 200 000 jobs, including in Austria, but also in Switzerland, has lost 30 000 jobs. [[turning to the liberals]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Another example from Switzerland, which does not even belong to the EEA: Last year, Switzerland had an export growth rate of 2 percent, while in Austria we were grateful to God for 8 percent. The fact is, however, that small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in border areas, have benefited greatly from EU accession. I do not think we can remember any more that a carpenter, a carpenter could no longer go to Bavaria at all to accept and carry out an order there. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But I am glad that, thanks to the accession of the EU, we no longer have any sand in the gearbox. I am glad that we did not put our heads in the sand and decided for the EU, because for this reason we no longer need to gnash our teeth, ladies and gentlemen, today! The fact is that we have had the lowest inflation since 1988. And the fact is that there has been a substantial increase in the trade in goods. He's 11 percent higher today than he was a year ago. However, I am not advocating it – and this is also a fact and should not be kept silent – that many businesses also felt negative effects. As the first and directly affected, freight forwarders, food, dairy and cheese businesses, in part economic sectors which did not know the market economy at all until two years ago. [[Call the liberals:The Raiffeisen farms!]] These sectors too, like farmers, should have been open to market over a short or long period of time due to GATT. However, we are unfortunately producing some negative consequences of our accession. I am thinking, in particular, of the worker protection law and the subsequent regulations, where we once again believe that we must be the model boys of Europe by burdening the Austrian economy with unnecessary bureaucracy at a time when it would have to have a lot of scope for action in which it would be necessary to be able to move actively and qualitatively. Do we really have to meet all the requirements of the directives that themselves do not meet 100% of the EU's founding members, because they cannot afford to do so, to 200 percent? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Finally, however, let me make one last comment: It should not appear today that I only judge our membership in the EU with the calculator: here plus, there minus, here plus, plus – under the line one plus. Unfortunately, the speaking time is too short to draw attention to the much more important development which, on the one hand, has finally become possible through the common approach, but on the other hand through the opening of borders: the integration, the interdependence and the joint action of the individual regions in peace in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Without these small units, despite Euro, despite Maastricht and despite Schengen, the EU will not be able to exist. These small units are just as important as the common European market, which we inevitably need in order to be able to counter the American and Asian markets in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's the little things that end up doing a lot because, as I believe, they're addressing the heart and not the calculator and not the plus and minus. If all these facts are considered, then after 20 months of EU membership, it is clear that the overall effect of accession is and remains positive. ==References====External links==* Official website July 1994 was simple and just right.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17963	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. – Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e17984	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only concur with Mr. Puttinger: The accession was correct. The question, however, is whether we are going this way, this European path, too, with the right government. And one can rightly have doubts about that. I would just like to take a very brief look at the environmental policy statements made both by Mr Vranitzky and by Mr Vice-Chancellor. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. In this context, I should like to remind you of the national environmental plan, ladies and gentlemen. This has already arrived in the House and has already been mentioned in the government agreement between your political groups. This Convention includes, inter alia, the intention of implementing the environmental guidelines of the national environmental plan. If you read it through, you will notice that renewable energy sources are of enormous importance. And not only because they want to increase in their share of total electricity, but also because they are kept as an industrial policy option. Ladies and gentlemen! Since all of this is in the national environmental plan and this government seems to have recognized it correctly, I wonder why implementation is still waiting for it. Because the savings package, the structural adjustment law, as you mentioned it, has not preferred renewable energy sources, but – quite the contrary – it has even blatantly disadvantaged them. Although renewable energy sources have been exempted from additional energy taxation in all other European countries, this has not happened in Austria, but the opposite is the case. If you are producing electricity with natural gas today, then the use of natural gas is free. However, if you increase the efficiency of such a power plant and add a combined heat and power, you also have to pay taxes for what is not outsourced to the environment, but which is useful. This is an blatant disadvantage of any efficiency-enhancing measure in our energy system and therefore completely wrong. It also does not correspond to what you have set out in the National Environmental Plan. [[Abg. May. Peter: Who decides such a thing?]] Please? [[Abg. May. Peter: Who decides such a thing?]] It will be decided in Parliament, but it will not be implemented by the government. And that's exactly where the problem lies. These are also the problems that we have, for example, in the area of work contract regulations, these are the problems we face over and over again, because we are always talking about doing something about it, but in fact nothing is done about it. As an example, take only the environmental standards that are claimed to be so high in Austria that they suffer disadvantages in international competition. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true, rather, that procedural regulations in this area have become so complicated, so fragmented, so time-consuming that this is a real problem for entrepreneurs. Finally, as soon as they decide to carry out a project, they cannot estimate whether they will need two, three or four years for the procedure. This is a problem that is heard as a change and where our Federal Chancellor is asked to do something about it. The prognostication of the Federal Minister for the Environment on the issues of mass proceedings – in the AWG – was not meaningful. However, for more than a year there has been a contract, or rather a draft, in the Federal Chancellery, which seeks to change this mass procedure in the area of the General Administrative Procedure Act. However, nothing has yet been sent to Parliament in this regard. And I would like to stress once again: That's the real problem. It is not possible for entrepreneurs in Austria to estimate the course of the procedures. It is not foreseeable for them to start such a procedure when they can actually implement their investment decision. This has to be done. We must finally agree on the need to allow everything and each one to be allowed in their own procedures. In this context, we must finally consider shifting the building skills in all the federal states from the municipalities to the district authorities and working out process concentrations that not only bring a process acceleration but also mean increases in their effectiveness. Finally, it is also a question of ensuring that these procedures ultimately clarify the legal positions between the people concerned and those entrepreneurs who have a right to the completion of their administrative procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! All of these are politically important issues whose solution is denied by the Federal Government. But we are faced by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and say that we have high environmental standards in Austria, we want to keep them, because that is important and good. But the reality is that you will not be able to keep it because the procedures are simply not suitable for implementation. And that's exactly the double-beddedness with which politics is ultimately pursued here: They tell the people in Austria: We must rise in Europe, we must go there! But what would be necessary to support those who already want to take control of the instruments in Austria so that they can really exist, you have so far failed. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a problem that we will always point out. We are convinced that in the context of the European elections you will also be presented with the corresponding receipt. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18035	I call Mr Riepl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18057	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed today's debate on this item on the agenda very carefully and have also tried to find out which message the speakers of the Freedom Party wanted to convey: Everything bad, the government has reacted too late or not at all, wrong policy, wrong policy approaches, disaster comes, damage is not averted – and similar remarks. [[Call to the liberals: Don't be!]] But what happened to me – and this is a criticism, I say it quite openly! – are concrete proposals: What's going to happen? – No proposals have been made. Only criticise and take the freedom to do everything bad, that is the policy of the liberals in this House! But you have not put on the table any specific proposal worthy of discussion this day! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't know what we suggest!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger spoke briefly about the workers' protection regulation and meant that they should not be met by 200 percent. I agree with him: We don't have to. But what we should definitely do would be to comply with this regulation and the rules 100 percent, because they concern the situation of workers in their jobs and their health. We by the Socialist Group will ensure that no steps are taken – as I believe they are a little attached – but that we are fully committed to the standards set. Puttinger is lucky that woman Federal Minister Gehrer was not in the hall: Otherwise, he wouldn't have dared to say that. The People's Party's ÖAAB question should have called him to order if he felt that changes might be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Economic policy is not separate from employment policy and social policy, it is about people, jobs, working conditions and the remuneration of workers. Support should be given to today's statements by the Federal Chancellor to give a clear rejection to wage reduction and social dumping. The vice chancellor has literally said: We don't want to reduce it. – This too is to be supported. Mr Klubobmann Khol, however, referred to agriculture: Increase income and do not cancel is the goal of the People's Party. I believe that if he asks for this for agriculture, he can also demand it for the economy in general and call it a guiding principle for workers. That's also positive. Mr Fischenschlager said: We want to maintain social standards and balance social rights. – This too is something that you can in principle support and support. If all of this is now claimed by the political groups of this House, then it will be in practice, I assume, as well. You should be able to assume that you live according to what you present here. The practice, however, looks a little different: For example, there are often the demands made by Mr Stummfully towards the reduction of social standards. There are the demands of important economic representatives who believe that wage costs should be reduced for several years if possible. There are entrepreneurs who want to slow down the trade unions. However, there are also job opportunities offered by Austrian businesses offering unemployed jobs on conditions that are also worth mentioning. I've got an annonce from a newspaper whose text reads: "Closer will be taken immediately." Requirements: "Nationals, 20 to 40 years old, completed vocational training, practice and driving licence B." The wage for this skilled worker is also indicated with an amount of 13 000 S gross per month in a working time which goes beyond the collective contractual working time. This is the reality of the economy! This is the reality of some businesses! Perhaps the corresponding guidance for this behaviour can be seen in the fact that the liberals have only recently called for the employment of the unemployed to be included in the minimum wage, even under the collective contract. Perhaps the entrepreneur who gave up this annonce has heard your recipes and your ideas that are there: Get down with the social standards! [[Abg. Meisinger: You did that!]] In the event of an election, give reasons But you're going to say: We're here for the little ones, for the workers. – In reality, the exact opposite is the case! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The trade unions, which are constantly being criticized in this debate, have, unfortunately, taken up and guaranteed an amount of 1,400 million schilling in the legal protection currency last year. They have thus secured themselves in the event that wages and salaries are not paid for workers. – I therefore believe that the conclusion can be reached: The care of capital and dividends must never be greater than the care of workers and their wage and working conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In his contribution to the debate, President Verzellnitsch briefly stated that a few days ago the Federal Government had received more than 300 000 signatures from Austrians who had sent a petition to the Federal Government to intervene in the "Action Fairnetß" for the equal rights of workers and employees and to enforce the legal implementation of this claim. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The Federal Government's prospects are to prepare appropriate steps next year. I believe that this announcement should have our full support. Is it true that some Members of this House have also personally signed this petition? I am thinking here in particular of the Green Group, but also of others. The People's Party and the Liberal Forum have also indicated that they too can be expected to support treatment in this context. The only ones who have been silent about this are once again the liberals, for whom this is certainly not a subject. I believe that the codification of labour rights must be of the heart of all of us, and I invite you to cooperate in their implementation next year!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18144	I call Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18173	I will talk about the higher environmental standards, Mr Khol. As long as you're sitting here, I really don't have a problem saying goodbye! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria will maintain the higher environmental standards and the other members will follow up: This was promised by the Federal Government before the referendum. Today, the Federal Chancellor has repeated it here, although the EU practice has already shown that even minimum environmental protection directives are ignored in most Member States, thereby harming Austria twice, namely environmental and economic. While in Austria businesses – Mr Prinzhorn has complained about this – have to close because of high environmental conditions, in Portugal, in Greece or in Spain, settlements are supported with EU funds, although any environmental protection requirements are disregarded. Today, in Brussels, we are already thinking out loud about how to undermine the higher environmental standards of the new Member States. I quote from a Commission paper: "A realistic approach would be to seek a level which is a compromise between the least stringent standard in a new Member State and the Community standard." This means nothing but trying to reduce our standards. This is the state of affairs in Brussels! This means that the promise given to the Austrians is not kept, and this is also confirmed by a Commission interim report on the revision process. There is a single and therefore all the clearer observation that is there: To date, nothing has been done to establish standards in the other Member States. . So the question arises, such as the agreement that our Federal Government has reached at the time, and that of smoke-callat before the 12th century. In June, the Minister of the Environment was delighted to be evaluated in the light of today's findings. At that time they said: Austria can for the time being maintain the stricter standards during a four-year transitional period, while at the same time, the EU undertakes to review its standards together with the new Member States within this period, with the aim of achieving common standards at the highest possible level. At the end of the period, Austria shall take over the acquis under the same conditions as the current Member States. "Under the same conditions" means today: at a lower level, ladies and gentlemen! This shows, for example, the development in transit traffic, as explained by colleagues Rosenstingl: Increase in transit journeys, increase in emissions. This also shows, for example, the new Drinking Water Directive, which provides for higher limit values for cancer-enhancing substances. This also shows the non-identification of genetically modified food, which is extremely dangerous to our ecological production. Finally, this also shows the power market liberalisation which will destroy the use of renewable energy contained in children's shoes. – These are just a few examples, ladies and gentlemen, for attacks on Austrian environmental standards. The fact is: For the EU of the Multis, profit maximisation is the top principle. We are further away from an environmental union, as we have been promised. Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the Union Treaty now provides the opportunity for an EU ecologicalisation. I therefore call on the representatives of the Federal Government to give priority to the free movement of goods. The common agricultural policy must be compatible with the environment. If we really want an environmental union, the agro-industrial industry must not be encouraged to do so. The basis of every energy policy, ladies and gentlemen, must be sustainable development. It is necessary to promote what is available to renewable energy sources. There must be measures to increase efficiency and savings must be used. In all cases, however, the EURATOM Treaty must be amended, ladies and gentlemen. For the EURATOM Treaty remains the central concern of promoting nuclear energy. I would therefore be pleased if the Federal Chancellor strongly supported the realization of what he has announced over and over again, namely the creation of a nuclear-free Central Europe. – A revision of the EURATOM Treaty would be the first step in this direction. The protection of people and the environment must be our every concern and not the creation of an ideal framework for a single market without barriers. I would therefore like to make another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18267	The motion for a resolution which has just been read was properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Drinkl has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18291	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The accession of Austria to the European Union has significantly changed and improved the environment, but also the opportunities for our economy. For the modest, it may well be that this did not happen, which many previously predicted. As has already been said, there has not been an invasion of the shield lice, nor has there been the establishment of a low-price country or a low-price paradise. We do not even have a large number of guest workers who take their jobs away from our employees. Rather – and many of my previous speakers have already mentioned this today – it has come to a lot of positive effects by joining the EU. I would like to repeat: The inflation rate is not as low as it has been for a long time. We have the lowest interest rate. We have been able to increase our exports considerably. We have an unemployment rate, which is one of the lowest in comparison to other European countries, and we still have one of the lowest corporate taxes in Europe as a business location. Of course, there are also areas with... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Talk about the trade balance!]] I've set up my unit a little different and I'm sorry for that. If you tell me what you want to hear next time, I'll be happy to talk about it. [[Further call to the liberals.]] If that's what she wants, and if that's what you can do, please. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are also areas with adaptation problems. But even sectors of which we would not have expected this, such as the food sector, report great successes. I am thinking of a medium-sized company in my district, which has 200 employees, namely the company Steirer Fruit, which by joining the EU could increase its export rate from 10 to 40 percent. It will invest 200 million schilling next year, and this is a great advantage for our structure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] That's not the advantage! Have you perhaps known that the largest near-supplier in Northern Italy is now the savings company in Austria? There are a number of large investments which have also been mentioned today, which create many opportunities and jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. I would just like to mention – because these are Styrian activities – the AMS Chips plant in Graz, which will invest 4 billion schilling and bring 300 additional jobs; on this occasion I also mention the Leykam, which plans to invest 6.5 billion schilling. Companies only invest in Austria if they believe that they will find a good future here. You would not invest small amounts here if the location of Austria were as bad as you presented it today! – I am already aware that the opposition here will not praise the government! That's clear to me. However, I would ask you not to do one thing: Do not pray the Austrian economy sick, even if you may believe in it yourself! However, I do not think that you really meant this today! However, they are insecure companies that want to further strengthen their location here in Austria. I may admit that Mrs Ederer was wrong with her 1 000 s. Maybe it's only 8 300 S or 500 S per month. But Europe should also be more for you than a price reduction organisation for yoghurt or, if you want, for sports cars. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: For black Porsche!]] If black Porsche actually gets a little cheaper, that's nice, but that's just a hobby! The internationalisation of the economy increases the opportunities, but of course also the risks to our companies. I think again of a small company with 80 employees – he is active in the environment – from my district. The owner recently told me that the competition in Austria is too sharp and he can earn too little. This competition forced him to settle in Southeast Asia, where he does very good business and represents our economy excellently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] You have to listen! He's working there. But this competition also forces us to think and to create for our companies the framework conditions that help ensure that Austria's economic location is safeguarded in the long term. New jobs create only successful companies. I quote here Wolfgang Schüssel, who said in his social manifesto: "The best social policy is flourishing companies." I know you don't like to hear from Wolfgang Schüssel today because your boss got a little bit in the fat cap! But I can't change that either! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did Wolfgang Schüssel issue this manifesto ex cathedra?]] Mr Stadler! You can read this, MariaTheresia Fekter certainly has that in her documents if you still need an evening lecture today! [[Interlocutory calls and calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Employment in Austria is mainly borne by small and medium-sized enterprises, and we must ensure that these small and medium-sized enterprises remain competitive. I admit that we also have a piece of work in front of us in this area, because it is precisely these small and medium-sized enterprises that are hit very hard by the bureaucracy, which occasionally overflows. I'm thinking about the case of a pizza bag that had 24 square meters of operating space. He had to carry out a procedure for two years, in which the expert finally told him that he had to build a suction system via the oven. Then the pizza would never have been baked; that was difficult. Finally, he paid 3 000 s of punishment. No one really understands that! We must, therefore, make every effort to ensure that people with entrepreneurship do not become clients, but also customers of the authorities. We need new opportunities to do this. For example, we need a new plant law. We are therefore very pleased that Minister Farnleitner is working on this new plant law. We need type approvals, we need a display procedure, we need a misuse legislation for smaller operating units or for improving changes. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: All of this was included in the liberal request!]] I would like to return to the liberal application for commercial law. – We also need modern commercial law. But it is a trickery, Mr Barmüller, if you believe that the free access to business will address all our concerns about business start-ups, new businesses and new jobs. What we need is good entrepreneurs who know something and can do something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Peter! I've said it before: If you don't know anything and can't do anything, insurance won't help you either! If you as an entrepreneur don't know anything and can't do anything, insurance won't help you either! I would like to mention one more area: We must also be careful to do every effort in the implementation of the EU directives. Mr Puttinger mentioned the Workers' Protection Act here. There are a number of legal provisions. However, we must remain competitive and therefore focus our legislation on the market and not treat our entrepreneurs worse than our colleagues in the EU are being treated. We need more flexibility. I am sorry that the Minister for Social Affairs is no longer in the Chamber, but I must say that now: Today I received a newspaper report by fax with the headline: "Then we're going to do this illegally." And as a representative of a constituency, which is strongly rurally dominated, which is called the "Obstland of Austria", namely the East Styria, I must say: It is about flexibility, even if it is about granting farmers the recruitment of harvest workers. I was at work yesterday. Proverbs are quoted here. For example, an apple and China-coal farmer says: "I'm just waiting for the first suicide!" Another farmer says: "At the Strawberry harvest has gone on as in the war. The workers have had to stand by, the labour inspector has gone through and has controlled." Other quote: "Whoever sees what's really going on, can't take off and say: I don't care!" The head of the Weiz Labour Office says: What's this about? It's about the apples getting ripe every day and we don't have the people. – The reason for this is a really missing policy, which must be pursued because the great fear of foreigners is repeated. It's about 14 days, 14 days we need these workers who have been here for years! Mr Haigermoser has noted that you have once helped us to establish a provision for farmers. I am thinking of the anti-abuse law under which a farmer received a penalty in July 1 250 000 S because he has employed foreigners so that the strawberries do not spoil! However, we should be flexible in this area to help an industry that could succeed in Europe if we provided them with the workers they need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You're in government! Why don't you do that? Is that a self - discipline?]] That's not a self-pugnance! I've already said: We are working very consistently to improve and change the framework conditions. And I can tell them something: We must let our businesses work, then they will be successful, because the European Community can offer them!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18438	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18459	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Much of what the Federal Chancellor has given of himself today, and what has partly been repeated or confirmed by Mr Vice-Chancellor and is considered as a necessary measure by the government in order to bring about the further internal Austrian integration process, certainly finds our approval, no question at all. However, immediately also the but and the restriction come. Because the formulation of goals and wishes alone does not lead Austria to a step further in the phase of a necessary pick-up process. These are only lip confessions or, as can be said, the periodic repetition of government declarations, depending on the degree of topicality. I ask you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Divisions: How long do you want to tell us when the important reform projects, which all have an EU reference, will finally be implemented? We Liberals have initiated these over and over again, but have so far encountered deaf ears from your side. Ladies and gentlemen! I have my doubts today about some of the intentions that have been expressed today. For example, I have my doubts as to whether the Socialist Group really wants to stick to its intention of joining the Intergovernmental Conference with the accession to economic and monetary union. For it says, for example, in today's "Kurier" Mr. Muhm, no unknown in the SPÖ: "Before joining the EU, the ÖGB not only committed the trade unions to the yes, but also parts of the SPÖ. If the business side wants a break, we will only represent our position in the field of economic and monetary union." They are quite unblemished threats! I believe that this is quite appropriate to the climate of the current political landscape and to this harsh debate that is currently being held between ÖVP and SPÖ, in order to get on with only a small amount of progress. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni! I know why you disagree with me, but I feel like making a comment here. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it was just a small electoral maneuver, what Mr Muhm has given of himself, that is possible, but I think it is unscrupulous. Not only do you give permanent government declarations and state analyses, but we are going to address the problems! I believe that ladies and gentlemen, especially in the money and banking sector, there is a lot to be done in preparation for economic and monetary union. There are failures in this area that are really serious. I would just like to mention a few examples, such as the sluggish privatisation: I only need to bear in mind that the second largest Austrian bank, the credit institution, has been brought to the man, the woman or a new partner for six years. The fact that six years of negotiations have been unsuccessful does not exactly speak for these government representatives and for this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. For the third time, a start is now being made. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Good thing needs a while!]] I can remind you: First, it was tried to land the shareholders from the field of scatter ownership. This attempt has failed. Then one wanted to build the gable cross over the credit institution so that this bank would definitely remain in "black" hand. Soon a coup was prepared by a gentleman named Konrad, whom you also know. This failed practically in the last minute. Then it came to the next attempt: The Swiss made their debut in the form of the Credit Suisse. However, they have run away when they have come to know, as is negotiated here, that, after an offer has already been made, the objections are: We still want to do that, we want to have a Supervisory Board post, and we want to speak with that. The Swiss then went away. And now is a similar situation: It just couldn't get enough, so this consortium – under the leadership of the Generali – didn't get to the train either. I don't know how this goes on, but I don't think anyone knows that right now. However, one thing is certain: There is a need for urgent action here, ladies and gentlemen. Another case is the need to strengthen the capital base, which is always only a lip commitment. It is of course easy to say that our businesses need the supply of fresh capital if the capital market does not work. Well, I and you know that a step has been taken in the right direction, namely by the abolition of anonymous securities accounts. This is a partly appropriate measure to set the capital market in motion, but please not the only one, because in Austria we still have a number of antique laws that do not, in fact, prevent the functioning of the capital market. I should like to remind you on this occasion that in Austria soon the magical limit of 3,000 billion shilling is reached on tied savings capital, but what the risk capital side is, we are one of the final lights in Europe. On the one hand, there is a banking apparatus that has favourable access to the money market – primarily to finance credit – but on the other hand, a non-functioning, sleeping risk capital market. One of the reasons why this market sleeps and the Vienna Stock Exchange cannot wake up from its slumber sleep is the provisions of our Income Tax Act. You have to face up to one thing: Austria is the only or one of the few countries in Europe and in the Western world, where – if you earn price gains within a year – you get fully into taxation, while you can't put it down – if you do in the same time period, even within a year. Dear, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Her party leader Klaus Liebscher has already discussed a number of times that there would be a need for action here, but obviously he himself encounters deaf ears with his own people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! By failing we will not set the capital market in motion! There is also the legendary example I found in the newspaper today: "More inaccuracy about planned securities supervision." – How do we want to create a venture capital market in Austria if the most important instrument, namely federal securities supervision, is not? This too is a subject, Mr. Collegue stupid, which has been "re-inspired" through Austria for three years, and it is not a solution in sight again. There are a large number of other examples that could be carried out, including, of course, the young entrepreneurs. When to Become You, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, are at last comfortable to create this absurd solution with the 50 000 s minimum body tax from the world? It is extremely counterproductive and ultimately leads to the realization, ladies and gentlemen, especially my gentlemen from the Chamber of Commerce, that young entrepreneurs in Austria are not being encouraged, but – quite the contrary – are even hindered in reality. The execution of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany by saying that the Federal Government is endeavouring to proceed with the necessary sensoryness, with the necessary sensitivity, so that the economy does not suffer any damage, in view of such shortcomings in my opinion, involves an blatant disrepute, for it meets every young businessman who wants to put something on his feet with pangs and disregard. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! In conclusion, I would like to make an appeal to you: Please do not be content to make government declarations here at a distance of three, six or nine months – in the face of elections or in the face of the image care – but at last seek to put five minutes before twelve on the important issues of integration and in the recovery process the rapid process, so that Austria does not suffer a really irreparable damage one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18511	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Trattner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18532	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, Professor Novotny said that the liberals always blame the EU for everything. – Professor Novotny, that is not true! We liberals blame the Federal Government for not taking appropriate measures. However, they try to interpret it in such a way that the liberals go to the level of putting everything in the EU's shoes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I was just referring to your speech!]] In this context, I would like to remind you of the debate this summer on the works contracts in which our Federal Chancellor claimed on television that this approach would primarily have a social component. – All of this, however, has no social component at all! The only component is that of pure money acquisition: You get 1.5 billion schilling in here, and that's the only reason. This is the result of your budgetary policy over the last ten years. If the real reason, namely the common currency, is really to be achieved, then the convergence criteria must be met. But even here the Minister of Finance or the Federal Government has not told the truth that a third is to be mastered by an increase in revenue and two thirds by saving expenditure. The truth is as follows: Of a 150-billion Schilling package, over 100 billion Schilling are introduced on the revenue side and not quantifiable by now 40 billion Schilling on the expenditure side. This is your kind of structural policy! You only have one objective: to reach the convergence criteria by 1997 with all force, what happens after 1997, is completely indifferent to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Bauer.]] It seems to you that you do not know what will happen after 1998 if a country no longer meets the convergence criteria, or if not all countries reach the convergence criteria by then. It is also obvious to you that it is completely indifferent, which will result in the state budget. Just think about it: If the losses are lost again in 1998, you will have a tax failure at such a blatant amount that you can never pick up again! The Minister of Finance is only doing a purely cosmetic repair here. What does he do to reduce the debt to the 60 percent he aims for, if he succeeds? He is setting up 50 billion Schilling privatization revenues, he is also selling claims of the Environmental and Water Economic Fund in the order of 76 billion Schilling, and finally he is introducing a "wide-ranging toll" so that special funding in the ASFINAG in the order of more than 70 billion Schilling is not added to the general government debt. If more than 50 percent of the debt can be recovered from the refinancing – in this case from the additional toll revenue – these items can be taken out of public debt. And then you want to let us know that this is a structural policy, a structural policy, a structural change in the way in which the Maastricht criteria are reached. You don't do anything! There is a serious danger that the budget will explode in this direction by the year 2000, that we will only reach the convergence criteria with regard to deficits until 1997. I would like to stress once again that the budget will explode by the year 2000 – unless you decide on a new tax package that has actually cost the Austrian population more than 100 billion schilling. That is why we also criticise the budget programme of the Federal Government. The Federal Government's budget programme does not contain any quantifiable measures on the expenditure side at all, but only quantifiable measures on the revenue side. If one reads into this budget programme, one sees very well that the next savings package or load package is at the doorstep. Another problem concerns the savings of the Austrians in the order of 4 trillion Schilling. If the individual currencies or the economy are not equally strong – the currencies are currently very different, one sees the only one from the interest rate – there is a risk of devaluation of the Austrian schilling, there can be a devaluation of the Austrian savers, and therefore the liberals also demand a referendum or a decision here in the House before joining this monetary union, similar to the English and the Danes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Protocol on the transition to the third stage of economic and monetary union states: With the signing of the new Treaty provisions on Economic and Monetary Union, the High Contracting Parties shall declare the reversibility of the Community's transition to the third stage of economic and monetary union. - Quote. It is practically stated that entry to the third stage should be carried out quickly. One or two countries have not joined this protocol: This was, on the one hand, the UK, because the British cannot be forced to make a decision without Parliament taking a decision, and the second country, which has a referendum on the final accession to a monetary union, was Denmark. That is why the corresponding motion for a resolution of the Liberals is going in this direction, namely:
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18616	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of Parliament has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18640	High house! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The statements by Federal Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors are similar in beautiful weather speeches and Sunday speeches. I come from an area of the north of Styria, where the farmers are mainly dependent on cattle farming. Through the BSE scandal, farmers have suffered severe income losses. Farmers are severely affected and depressed. The President of the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture estimated the loss per head on average at 3 500 s. However, according to calculations by the European Farmers' Office COPA, the loss is 3 500 S, as noted in the Presidential Conference. The compensatory payments are made from EU funds: for bulls, oxen and for slaughter calves 727 S and for breeding calves 532 S. Payment by the AMA shall be made in accordance with the appropriations. However, the lion's share of EU funds flows into the UK's producer country. We liberals therefore call for full price compensation. .. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Mr Schwarzenberger said that according to the Green Report 1995 the income of farmers increased by 22 percent. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: These are bookkeeping results!]] That's true, but there are four reasons that no longer apply in 1996. First: In 1995 these degressive compensatory payments were the highest. Secondly, In 1995 there was a reluctance to invest because the farmers were waiting for the money. Most of the compensation was made only in December. Thirdly, In 1995 there was a one-time depreciation, and fourthly: The income was divided into much less farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! Return to BSE effects. It is not to be seen that much of the EU funds are going to the 'polluter country' of Great Britain, although the British do not comply with the slaughter plans and the BSE-free EU countries are more affected by the beef crisis. The further procedure for 1997 is still completely uncertain, as the EU Commissioner is trying to bring in the special funding for the BSE crisis by reducing the EU's farming programme. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is that?]] [[Calls of the Abg. Parnigoni and Koppler.]] I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] You're in need of action from the government! Farmers are waiting for this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18724	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled and supported accordingly, and is therefore under negotiation. I call Mrs Haller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18748	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the introduction of a new Rules of Procedure, today our meeting took a relatively long time. , but she certainly tends to end up, and I'm not going to stop you for very long either. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But not because of the liberals!]] [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Both Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr. Vice-Kanzler have today made a bold, long jubilation statement on the situation of the Austrian economy and on integration issues. Both according to the old-fashioned recipe: One needs only to scatter sand into the eyes of Mr and Mrs Österreicher, and then the layer simply has to be so thick, so that a little rubble does not use anything to get this sand out. My predecessors referred to the situation of the economy from the point of view of government politicians and from the point of view of opposition politicians. It has been discussed about the future of the economy and Austria in the EU, about pro and counter monetary union, about pro and counter to NATO accession, about Austrian transport policy in the EU, about securing jobs and much more. This list does not claim completeness. But one thing, and now I am at the point, has really gone off – but the interest does not seem to be particularly great now – namely the presentation of the situation of women in the Austrian economy. The situation of women in the Austrian economy and in Austrian integration policy seems to be side-by-side. As an economic factor, we are not important to women, and it seems that EU membership in this area has not changed either. Where, then, are the voices of those Austrian politicians who always praise Austrian women's policy? – None of them had anything to say about this economic debate at all, and despite the deterioration of the situation for Austria’s women, which has been shown to have come to us recently, especially through the savings packages. There is a very up-to-date statement on this subject, which seems not to be in the interest of this plenary session either, namely the statement of 17 June. September by Ms. Gudrun Biffl of the Austrian Institute for Economic Research. This result is only two days old – that is, brand-current. In this study, Ms Biffl criticised the WIFO that Austria's female employment rate in 1994 was only 57.9% and therefore clearly below the OECD average. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I do not know why there must be a debate just now, but it seems that you have nothing to do with this subject. I'm really sorry! It is very significant for Austrian politics, especially for Austrian women's policy. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't hear anything!]] Mrs. Colleague! There's probably enough microphones there, and if you don't hear anything, it's just the noise you're causing here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I support you, and you go on to me!]] Thank you. But I'm not used to it, Mrs. Mertel. To return to Mrs Biffl's statements: She says quite clearly that we have a clear dependence here in Austria on this, and she sees a reason for the Austrian women, to a greater extent - I quote - "for family reasons, especially because of childcare, to withdraw from the Ewerbsleben longer term". It emphasises that, contrary to this, family relations with young children with the working world are often maintained over part-time employment during the family phase abroad. Among other things, it also notes that many services would be provided in Austrian households, which are organised through the labour market in other European countries. In this respect too, we are following enormously in Austria. In view of the fact that the free benefits of Austrian women in the care and education sector total more than 40 per cent of the gross domestic product, I must already ask: Where is the call of the politicians of the government parties? They are obviously speechless on this issue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am very glad that Mr Schlögl is still there. He knows that I have been calling for a part-time offensive for many years, as a signal in the public sector, but also as an impulse for the economy. He is in my word – he does not listen to me at the moment – that something has to happen in this area, but nothing has yet to be done. [[Abg. May. Schlögl: Oh, yes!]] One thing is obvious: Although Austria is always talking about offensive, part-time employment, flexible working time regulations, nothing has been done in de facto to date. [[Abg. Koppler: Go to the farms and see it!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're telling loud stump! You have no idea! No shimmer!]] I have a farm at home myself, Mr Koppler. I have a farm myself, and we employ women in qualified part-time jobs. Mr Koppler! They are not a scale for me as far as Austria is concerned. Really not! Not particularly with regard to women's policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18867	I'm asking for a little more attention!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18891	It says: Austria has once again fallen asleep in an international trend. In Germany, there has been a part-time offensive, which has become a full success, which has really become an alternative to a better reconciliation of family work and work. Qualified part-time jobs and mass are available in the northern states of the European Union. You're going and you're going. 30 percent of men and women are employed in qualified part-time jobs. This is obviously not desirable in Austria. It is preferable to give women special emergency aid, emergency aid – or to send them home before trying to integrate them into the labour market according to their possibilities. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Headmaster.]] You can yell in here what you want: You'd better finally act, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are represented in the government. They promised us women something again and again. But Austrian women's policy seems to be only capable of demanding mandatory housework for men, because you do not care about the economic interests of women. That's reality. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have no idea!]] .. That's not true! I have a lot of idea. No one's been able to tell me that yet. I am a practitioner – unlike you! [[Congratulations on the liberals!]] I would now like to conclude. Mr Schlögl, Minister of State, is in my position and I will not tire out, Mr State Secretary, constantly demand qualified part-time jobs for Austrian women and also men who want to do family work – in the public sector, as an impulse for the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e18947	High house! No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the retroactive abolition of social security obligations. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ:What application?]] The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request is made by 20 Members and must therefore be carried out. The Rules of Procedure offer two possibilities. After consultation with the club members, the situation looks such that four club members have opted for the new form, Klubobmann Stadler for the old one. I shall therefore vote in accordance with the new provision. It is this § 66 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, last sentence. I'm going to read this sentence: "The President may also hold a nominal vote in such a way that Members are called in alphabetical order and the vote is orally called "Yes" or "No." So I will vote in this way. I would therefore ask the author, Mrs Parfuss, to begin the call for name. I ask for attention to this innovation, this new provision, which, I believe, will also be conducive to the logging of "yes" and "no". [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens:What application?]] I'm allowed to repeat, I already read it: It is the Böhacker resolution on retroactive abolition of social security obligations in the case of works contracts. Is that right? [[Call to the liberals:Yes!]] Good. So I'm asking to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19009	It might be worth stressing two things this first time: Please call the name a little slower so that the caller also notices that he is called. But this also requires a reduced noise scene. I would also ask you to stop calling. – Please continue with the name call! Everyone knows what his name is; allow me to make this observation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19033	Thank you. The vote has ended, and I believe that we too have managed very well. In order to determine the outcome of the vote, I am now interrupting the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19063	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the session and ask you to take the places. The Rules of Procedure provide that in the case of national votes, it is not only established whether there is a majority of 'yes' or 'no' votes. This would be clear in the present case. Rather, it must be kept in the stenographic protocol by each voter whether he voted with "Yes" or "No". Since the corresponding records due to the rapid pace of the call for name are in some respects inexact and under no circumstances should there be any doubt about the voting behaviour, I will now carry out the vote again. I will read the names myself, and I ask that the Members who give their votes rise briefly from their seats and say "Yes" or "No". Today, this measure may not be necessary, but if a very narrow vote is to be expected, then it will be useful to have a real certainty that the one who has been raised and his voice has been called. - I'll start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19100	This is the end of the vote. Deputies Dkfm. Bauer wants to talk about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19124	I expressly ask whether a vote has been registered with Mr Mühlbachler. The reason for this is that Mr Mühlbachler is not here, but someone from this sector called "no". This is not a big thing, but perhaps important for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19148	Mr Bauer! It is the essence of the natural vote that behind each name, if the person concerned has participated in the vote, stands "Yes" or "No". If a person has not participated, his name does not appear in the protocol. That's how we're going. It will also be included in the Minutes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19173	Mr President. I would like to know what Mr Brix says in the Minutes as a voting behaviour. In my view, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only one vote is possible in the case of a natural vote. However, it was clear and clear that Mr Brix first voted with "Yes".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19202	Mr President, I should like to thank you for your The main rule in voting is that the actual opinion of the voter is expressed, and we will certainly take this provision of the Rules of Procedure into account. I am now interrupting the sitting and giving further comments on the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, especially if no requests are made, the floor, after notification of the results of the vote. The narration can begin. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19241	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. I make the following preliminary remarks: First: The type of vote we have elected was ordered by the Bureau, and I remain in this arrangement. I didn't turn them over and I won't kick them over. Secondly, It will be appropriate to discuss the exact implementation of pro futuro at the presidential meeting in order to discuss together problems that may arise here. Thirdly, I make use of my opportunity to use a vote to avoid a dispute – without prescribing to future Presidential Advisory – to invalidate where the "Yes" and the "No" have taken place so briefly, although one can represent the position that the voter's opinion was clear, but as I said, we do not want to presuppose the presidential session. The honourable Member's question, Mr President, whether Mr Mühlbachler will appear as a voter in the Stenographical Protocol despite his apologies must be answered with no. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Please, what does that mean?]] Under these premises I announce the result: votes cast: 153 of which valid: 152, of which "Yes" votes: 49 and No votes: 103. This is the "no" vote in the majority and the request is rejected. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Bures; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Edeller, Ellwall, Elmecker; Fekter, Fink, friend, fox; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Kaufenmüller, Khol, Kiermair, Kiss, Head, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Leikam, Leiner, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, barber, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Steibl, Steindl, Stumpful; Tegic, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With "Yes", the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Firlingers, fries, fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Hofmann; Kammerlander, Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter; Oils; Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Pumberger; Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner, Trenk; Van der Bellen; Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19292	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's – You reported earlier, and I said I would give you the floor afterwards. Is that inconsistency? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Business treatment, please!]] Mr Bauer, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19339	I would ask you politely to interpret us, which means that Mr Mühlbacher's vote does not appear in the Minutes. I repeat the reason for my intervention on the Rules of Procedure: Mr Mühlbachler is and has not been present in the vote. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's why he can't show up.]] [[Call the Greens:Fata Morgana!]] I heard a "no" call in his sector. I then went to the polls and saw and heard that a "no" voting behaviour was registered with my colleague Mühlbachler.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19381	Mr Bauer! According to the Rules of Procedure, it is not the official who manages the Rules of Procedure and who does not announce the results of the votes but the President does so while the officials are auxiliary bodies. And your question as to how the voting behaviour of Mr Mühlbachler will appear in the Stenographical Protocol, I am going to answer that he will not appear in the Stenographical Protocol because he has not voted. Because someone who is not present cannot vote. Therefore, your question must be answered in such a way that his voice will not appear in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is a monsterity!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Bauer! For this criticism of the chairman, I give you a call for order. We shall be holding this meeting properly. I am now interrupting for three minutes, so that those ladies and gentlemen who are right in applying the Rules of Procedure only with the word "scandal" can calm down again. The meeting was suspended for three minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19429	I'll start the interrupted session again. Please take the seats. Mr Stadler, you wish to speak once again. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19459	Mr President. There have now been considerable doubts as to whether the invalidation of a vote is in conformity with the rules of business, and ultimately as to how the protocol would have been written, Mr Bauer would not have been instigated, since it was clear that your official's record recorded this vote with a "no" vote. Mr President. In order to clarify these two questions, I would ask you to convene a very short President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19498	Mr Mag. Stadler! First: The only thing I think would be to discuss is whether a club or a clubman should stick to what we have always done at the presidential meeting, namely, decisions taken by the Bureau, regardless of which Presidents are not to be excused with interlocutory calls which are not acceptable in this House. Secondly, Mr Mühlbachler is apologised, is not present in the Chamber, so he cannot vote. If Mr Bauer and others have heard the call 'Yes' or 'No', it is a procedure which I can only disapprove of very strongly, in the event that someone has articulated himself as if he were MP Mühlbachler. However, there can be no doubt about the fact that MP Mühlbachler did not vote. And what criticism can you make of a procedure that takes account of this infidelity and prevents the Stenographical Protocol from appearing as voting someone who has not agreed with a thousand percent certainty? That is why I will exercise my duty to lead the vote and to announce the outcome of the vote so that someone who has not voted does not appear to be a voter in this Minutes. In my opinion, this is the only correct procedure. And I'm trying to figure out what the reactions would be if the matter were reversed if I were to insist on appreciating the vote of Mr Mühlbachler in the Minutes, no matter what, although it can be proved that he did not vote. As this situation is perfectly clear to me, it remains with the determined vote that the motion for a resolution was rejected by a majority. There can be no doubt about this enunciation. Of course, the wish you have made to me personally to discuss this problem thoroughly at the next presidential meeting is taken into account. I shall continue the votes. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades concerning Brussels EU funding case. No specific vote has been required, so it will be taken with standing up and sitting. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, the request is therefore rejected. [[Call at ÖVP: Where is the applicant?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the Mühlbachler?]] We shall vote on another motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn concerning measures to rescue Semperit-Reifen AG and the other automotive supplier industry. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Khol and Dr. Novotny on the priorities of Austrian integration policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Dr. Khol and Dr. Novotny's request for a sign. - That's the majority. The application was therefore adopted by a majority. (E 23.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament on the preparation of an employment offensive. Here again, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to the request for a sign. That's the minority. The application is rejected. The third motion for a resolution by the Abgordnet Oillinger concerns the use of the funding from the EU budget to Austria for active labour market policy. I may ask to express a sign of approval by raising the seats. – The request is rejected in the minority and therefore rejected. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades on EU contribution reductions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I call on the motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on EU course correction on a social, environmental and peace-based basis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The next item is the motion for a resolution on the renegotiation of the transit agreement, which is now being put to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Rosenstingl, for a sign. – The request did not find the majority and was rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer and comrades on the maintenance of high Austrian environmental standards within the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The next motion for a resolution is that of Mr Magistrate. Trattner concerning a referendum on the participation of Austria in the single currency "Euro". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a Trattner to give a sign. – The request did not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Reichhold on full loss compensation for Austrian cattle farmers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Reichhold's motion for a sign. – The request did not find the majority, it was therefore rejected. That's what we've done with the agenda. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19649	We shall proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Member. Schweitzer on the establishment of an investigative committee to further examine the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family in connection with the illegal export of plastic waste through Austria. The application is distributed in writing, so there is no need for a reading by a writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19696	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. First speaker is MP Schweitzer. A word on the Rules of Procedure? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19724	I would now like to take note of the following: Since the first election was incorrect in the natural vote, I took a bit of distrust and made the effort to participate in Stricherl myself: And I come to 47 "yes" votes, so to a less than calculated by you. So it might be that one has either been told at the narration or that I have told myself, but there is the possibility that a second time a mistake has been lost in the narration. [[Abg. Leikam: These are no health certificates!]] So it cannot be assumed that a Member of Parliament is being misclassified in this very important matter, and I therefore believe that we should, at least in the future, if it has not been done this time, withdraw from this type of vote, and I would even like to encourage us to repeat this name-named vote in the old-fashioned form, namely with votes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19756	I would like to thank you for your speech on business, Mr Deputies. We have already agreed that we will talk about matter at the presidential meeting, and we will do so with great satisfaction. I believe that the correctness of the finding that there is a majority of 'no' votes can be no doubt. May. Schweitzer has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19781	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, the Upper Austrian Environment Council, Aichinger, confirmed what we liberals discovered with their own search a year and a half ago, namely the fact that huge quantities of plastic were illegally exported from the Austrian collection system. Our notes, which we had received more than a year and a half ago, Mr Bartenstein, more than one and a half years ago, were not taken note of by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time, because of an urgent question with press releases. However, these indications were obviously sufficient for the legal department of the country of Upper Austria to make own investigations, and the result of these investigations is that a number of charges against transporters and users will come in the near future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] This confirms all of what we have already found, but this was not understandable for the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to this APA report. It is also confirmed that, between March 1995 and September 1996, only around 20,000 tonnes of plastic waste were exported illegally – equipped with false papers – first from Austria to Germany, more precisely to Passau, from there he was shipped on ships and subsequently shipped to Ukraine and to Bulgaria. Per kilogram was paid from the system 3.50 S to 5.50 S recovery contribution, without the legal recovery being controlled only in the first place. This resulted in billions of damage to the Austrian economy, but the Federal Ministry of the Environment could or did not want to notice these illegal exports, did not understand. A subcommittee called for by me should therefore clarify whether, and if so, who has known about these operations. There are many questions in this context, ladies and gentlemen, for example, whether an official who has issued this transit confirmation has agreed with the freight forwarder on the transport of ships from Ukraine to Svištov in Bulgaria. It is alleged that the action is to be covered by the Ministry by establishing the claim that the cargo of the ships was completely destroyed in Reni. In this case, the Upper Austrian Environmental Law Department also determines. It should be clarified how far the Minister for the Environment knows. In the ministry, it is said that an act was set up on this Causa. It should be clarified whether the Ministry has checked the load for the accuracy of the information as it should have been. If this was the case, how could this be explained, the Austrian, licensed material be overlooked? – Questions on questions, ladies and gentlemen, probably justifying a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19829	I don't have any further words. I declare this debate closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Magn. Schweitzer on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG to further examine the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family in connection with the illegal export of plastic waste by Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who agree to the setting up of this committee of inquiry to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-09-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00037_d7e19865	I declare that at today's sitting, requests for 280/A to 289/A have been submitted and requests from 1199/J to 12216/J have been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, 20. September, 9 a.m. The agenda has been distributed in writing. The sitting is closed. - Thank you many times.
