ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2188	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats and explain the 10th. Meeting of the National Council of this legislative period opened for adoption. I very much welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is in our midst. [[General condolences.]] ==References====External links== He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: ==References== Meeting of 28 and 29. ==References== Meeting of 29. February 1996 has remained apprehensive and undisputed in the Parliamentary Directorate. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn, Dr. Rasinger and Dr. Mock. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2232	I now ask the writer, Mrs Parfuss, to read the introduction. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Writer Ludmilla Perfuss: "To the President of the National Council Parliament 1017 Vienna I should like to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 12. ==References== 800.410/2/1996 the Federal Government and State Secretary responsible for continuing the administration has removed from office. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky" The second letter reads: "To the President of the National Council Parliament 1017 Vienna I should like to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 12. ==References== 800.410/1/1996 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act has appointed Federal Chancellor. Furthermore, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has appointed: Deputy Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselzum Vice Chancellor and Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Johannes Ditzzum, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Federal Minister Franz Humszum Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Federal Minister Mag. Viktor Klima zum Bundesminister für Finanzen, Federal Minister Dr. Christa Krammerzur Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection, Federal Minister Dr. Caspar Einmzum Federal Minister for the Interior, Federal Minister Dr. Nikolaus Michalekzum Federal Minister for Justice, Minister of State Dr. Werner Fassleven as Minister of State for Defence, Federal Minister Mag. Wilhelm Moltererzum Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Federal Minister Dr. Martin Bartenstein to the Federal Minister for the Environment and in conjunction with Article 77 para. 4 of the Federal Constitutional Act until the amendment of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs Act is entrusted with the provisional management of the Federal Ministry of Youth and Family, Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrerzur Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs, Federal Minister Dr. Rudolf Scholtenzum Federal Minister for Science, Research and Art and in conjunction with Article 77 para. 4 of the Federal Constitutional Act until the amendment of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs Act has been entrusted with the provisional management of the Federal Ministry of Public Economy and Transport, in accordance with Article 70(1). 1 in conjunction with Article 78(1). 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act Federal Minister Dr. Helga Konradzur Federal Minister without a portefeuille. In accordance with Article 70(1). 1 in conjunction with Article 78(1). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act: State Secretary Mag. Karl Schlöglzum State Secretary at the Federal Chancellery, State Secretary, Dr Benita Ferrero-Waldner, State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky"
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2395	I thank Mrs. Writer. I would ask you to take note of this letter. I welcome the newly praised Federal Government in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2567	The Declaration on the resignation of the Republic of Austria has also been received by the International Sugar Convention (55 of the Supplements). In agreement with the members of the President's Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. I would also like to say that the first report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to all Members. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2599	It is a request for a deadline from the honourable Members. Trattner and Böhacker according to § 43 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. The National Council therefore wants to decide, to report to the Financial Committee on the resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker, Mr Mag. Trattner concerning privileges and load package up to the 16th. ==References== In accordance with Rule 43 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate on this request was requested. Under Rule 57a of the Rules of Procedure, such a debate shall take place no later than 4 p.m. In order not to interrupt the Federal Chancellor's declaration of government, I have just agreed with the presidents of the club that we are now holding the debate immediately, even before the Government Declaration. I limit the speaking time to five minutes; each group has a speaker. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2629	First of all, Mr. Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2651	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of this new federal government is essentially linked to a tax package for the Austrian population, which, in order to consolidate the federal budget, includes, above all, massive additional burdens for families, for single-earners, but above all for the large number of hard-working workers, for example, through deterioration of workers' contributions, the deterioration of holiday and Christmas money, and more. We liberals have therefore demanded that this government, which is going to give us its declaration today, be clearly committed not only to burdening the population but also to implementing the corresponding measures of the reduction of privileges in those areas where there have been maladministrations for decades, hundreds of million shillings are thrown out of the window and non-profit-making references are on the agenda. We have no understanding at all of this if the question of the reduction of privileges is pushed back to the long-term bank in the coalition agreement of the two government parties and, as Mr Schlögl has announced, the question of the burden on the Austrians is immediately being raised, but a change in political privileges should only be discussed at the end of the year. There is also only a simple call to the other beneficiaries concerned, such as the National Bank, Chambers and Social Security Fund. To these there is only a formless writing, but otherwise nothing happens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Bärentaler!]] I understand that you have problems to do this, but if you read the "standard" today, you can see that the central bank was asked by the government in a kind letter to go ahead with a good example, even if you already burdened the Austrians to make order even with the privileges in the central bank. Mr Notenbank President said: We don't care, we're an independent institute, the government doesn't have to prescribe anything. The Chamber of Labour says: We'll talk about it sometime. Mr Maderthaner's Chamber of Commerce says: We are a self-administrative body, and we are nevertheless economical – but everyone knows that in the Federal Chamber of Commerce there has been a lot of administrative reform in recent years, but one has purchased the abolition of the Pragmatization of its own officials in the Federal Chamber of Commerce with 2 billion schilling for special pensions. This money has been diverted from the promotion of external trade, although the export economy is supposed to be boosted! Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. They cannot give such a government confidence, a government that is not willing to make order even once in a row. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also believe that the same applies, of course, to the whole area of the National Bank. Yes, how do you want to grab the "little man" in your pocket today?- Oh, my God! The Federal Chancellor will announce sensitive measures, income reductions for the average Austrian today. How can you answer this if, in the Austrian National Bank – and this is now an institution dominated by these two government parties – every millionaire, anyone who has 1.5 or 2.5 million schillings in annual earnings, is also subsidized with 100 s?- Oh, my God! As the chickens are really laughing slowly, better: There are tears to the decent citizen in this country that all of this is not changed. Hundreds of millions of schilling for privileges, a special pension right in the Austrian National Bank, which costs all of us – for not even 1,000 beneficiaries – 23 billion schilling! You didn't do anything. You didn't go in there. That is why we are proposing this deadline because we want to prevent the question of the reduction of privileges from being pushed to the long-term bank, while the burden on the Austrians by this new government will immediately break into the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2697	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. – No more than five minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2719	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! No law is safe from abuse, including the rules of procedure of the National Council. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] What you have just heard here is the obvious abuse of a business regulation provision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We met you – and that's the "thank" for it! We don't give you any more welcome!]] For weeks now, the representatives of the Liberal Group have agreed that today, at 3 p.m., the Declaration of Government will be issued, a declaration for the next four years. You, Dr. Haider, are nothing but disturbing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Dr. Haider! If only a grain of truth were true to what you said now, you would have submitted a request that could have been voted in some form. But what you are discussing and voting here is a request for the Federal Government to make proposals to you. – Once you work yourself legistically, put something in front of you, then you will be able to discuss it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a motion for a resolution!]] Mr Haider! You obviously, although you have already given up some press conferences, you have not made the effort to read the work agreement. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have been the weakest clubman of SPÖ for decades!]] On pages 40 and 41 you can read exactly what you are discussing here, quite specific statements. Do this, and you will find in us accordingly open, honest and ambitious interlocutors. But I'll tell you one thing: Let's make fun of it. It is not this House, nor democracy, nor an act such as a declaration of government that we want to discuss with you tomorrow. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The motion for a resolution says something about the railways!]] Only if you look into your ranks now: this haemic smile, thishemical grin, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] They do not show the seriousness with which we want to conduct political debates. You will find in us a fair interlocutory, but not someone who wants to get through such a political spectacle on television.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2851	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2881	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! This short debate has a fundamental aspect, but I do not understand the sequence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] I do not understand what sense it makes to put here a clear gesture of rudeness. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should read Knigge!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Mr Haider! I'm asking you not to interrupt! I only have five minutes of speaking time. And if you continue your indifferences as usual, you start badly. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ODP representatives.]] I do not understand the order, as mentioned earlier, because it is quite devaluable what the Federal Chancellor will present in his statement of government, since this was already a subject of discussion in advance, but it is nevertheless a command of courtesy and fairness to listen to the declaration of government first and then to discuss it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Schmidt voted in favour!]] That is exactly what has been agreed in the roadmap. But you now have the Rules of Procedure so excessively that you make use of the compelling claim that can be discussed immediately. – The club members have agreed not to interrupt the Chancellor in his government statement. If we first hear 70 percent of the government's declaration, then 5 percent of the Haider Festival and then 30 percent of the government's declaration, then the club's agreement is reasonable. But this has not changed the fact that you wanted to take the discussion before the Government Declaration, in the knowledge that you are then sitting in a media window; apparently you feel this as an advertising window of the "F"! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is, of course, a great need for reform in the area of privileges, and there will also be a detailed opportunity to discuss it tomorrow, because we also do not have the expectation that the Government Declaration will be satisfactory. . But I ask you to proceed in the right order, otherwise you will ruin the good practices here, and that might be the – false – invitation to reform the Rules of Procedure in a wrong way. And that's what I'm warning! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2967	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He too has the same speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e2989	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President! In our government agreement, the reform of the relationship is based on a solid foundation. We've developed a schedule. We want to develop a pyramid of income for all those references in Parliament that apply to politicians in all areas, but also to all undertakings subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. This is what we have defined in the Government Agreement, which the Federal Chancellor will present to you on behalf of the government groups and which he has already proposed. The principle we are pursuing by the People's Party is: We want decent income, we do not want unemployed income, and we want an income pyramid that is understandable to the citizen. At the head of the pyramid is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also members of the National and Federal Councils, mayors, as well as the top positions in the national area. We have stated in the Government Convention that Parliament clubs will draw up the necessary proposals. We have established the principles, and we are going to work immediately. I cannot befriend myself with a procedure whereby Parliament would pass on this right to the determination of the Federal Government. The Liberals' motion for a resolution is truly an admission of the powerlessness of this group, which is not able to explain its ideas, but is calling on the Federal Government to bring a government proposal to Parliament. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have proposed all of this for years!]] We're doing our work ourselves, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I must add: I regret the self-demaskation that is taking place here. She doesn't wonder, though. This House would now like to hear and discuss the government agreement that contains the future package for our country. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You could have been silent if you had nothing to say!]] We are giving priority to the timetable for our home country Austria over the next four years and not a small hack about political relations! Ladies and gentlemen, liberals! I'd like to tell you: Austria first – first of all the programme for the rehabilitation of this country!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3059	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the She has the same speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3080	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I will vote in favour of the Liberal Party's motion for a time limit, because I believe that Members' requests should be treated as quickly as possible and should not be postponed to the long-term bank. Dr. Khol! If you say, We can regulate this by ourselves in this House, and we do not need to make any calls to the Federal Government!, I will answer you: There were very many requests from the Greens and other opposition parties, and you all refused. Time would have been enough. So you have to be absolutely aware of the accusation of fairness in this area! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's right!]] Dr. Kostelka! If you complain that the Rules of Procedure are being exploited to the extreme, you must say: Yes, it will be exploited to the extreme. But as long as an operation is legally correct, one will probably have to take note of it! And that courtesy, media restraint and moderate application of the Rules of Procedure are not the cause of the Freedom Party, you know! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition rights in this House are not at all very pronounced. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We need a great reform of the Rules of Procedure, and you are badly advised if you now, after you have regained the two-thirds majority, try with full arrogance of power to continue pushing opposition rights back! If you do not comply with such a procedure and if you do not think it is correct, then put it into a comprehensive debate on a reform of the Rules of Procedure, and then we can deal with it within the appropriate framework. [[Abg. Koppler: The election result fits us!]] We can also talk about how the Rules of Procedure are dealt with and whether individual rights are overstepped. But that must be done in a correct way and soon! On the matter itself, I tell you: The rules you are seeking in the Coalition Agreement are inadequate. Because it is clear what will happen if you are very likely to allow double references after the so-called, under quotation marks, "real performance": Above all, the representatives of the government parties will continue to remain in their official functions, because government policy and government officials are indeed compatible. It is very difficult to check how much is actually done here. I believe that the representation of the interests of the Austrian population is almost more than a full-time job and takes the full attention of a person. Besides, it is impossible – except perhaps in the case of certain artistic or scientific activities – to provide the full service of a civil servant or an official. I cannot agree that these two functions can really be carried out correctly and therefore two or more salaries are to be paid for them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand why you don't want to discuss it. For you have also pointed out in this House that there are things that are not in order and that are not to be done. If I think of the Social Fund in the Burgenland or of such events as they have contributed there, I think that we should also talk about these things in connection with the privilege economy. The Freedom Party has also tried a lot in the past so that nothing gets to the public. That is why I do not understand why you, together, form a community of cover and silence. [[Abg. Koppler: Your speaking time is over!]] The time of the opposition may be over, but I have something to say to you. Mr Koppler, you are also one of those who have double and triple relations. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this House, the Greens have often made an application for disclosure of all party donations and for disclosure of the income and wealth relationships of the mandaters: glass party funds, glass income relationships. The Austrian population should know...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3165	Please note the speaking time! Deputies Mag. Dr Madeleine Petrovic [[Continue]] The Austrian population should know what the political parties cost and where they get their money. – This has always been rejected by SPÖ, ÖVP and the liberals. The Greens will make these requests again, and we will see how you stand.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3208	All five political groups have now come to speak. The debate is therefore closed. According to § 43 para. I shall put the final sentence of the Rules of Procedure to the vote on the request. We shall vote on the request of the honourable Member. Trattner, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 116/A (E) for a period of up to 16 years. The Commission has decided to set up a working party on the basis of a report from the Commission on the implementation of the common agricultural policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this deadline request for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3249	I would like to point out that Mrs Langthaler, Mr Voggenhuber, Mr Wabl and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have called for urgent consideration of Mrs Petrovic's written question to the Federal Minister for Science concerning savings measures at universities and students before entering the agenda. This The request has been made in such a way that the debate on this matter takes place three hours after the entry into the agenda. I therefore state the beginning of the debate on this urgent question at 6.30 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3273	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3, 4 and 5 as well as 6 and 7 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3298	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on all the items on the agenda as follows: The joint debates on points 2 and 3 and points 6 and 7 are to be set at two Vienna hours each, with the following speaking times per debate: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberals and Greens each 18 minutes. It was also proposed that in the joint debate, points 4 and 5 should contain a maximum of three speakers per group, with the first speaker of each group having a speaking time of 20 minutes, with all other speakers having such a time of 10 minutes each. As far as the proposals are concerned. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. The House has therefore unanimously agreed to this proposal. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3335	We'll get to the 1st. Debates of the European Parliament This is the declaration of the Federal Government. I now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3359	Mr President! Mr President of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the elected representatives of the Austrian people, I present to you today the new Federal Government and its programme for the next legislative period. I do this in a good tradition of cooperation between legislation and administration, between Parliament and the Federal Government. At the beginning of the XX. I invite all of you to cooperate with the Austrian Federal Government in the legislative period of the Second Republic, which is to lead us until the next millennium. Ladies and gentlemen! The tasks and challenges we face are anything but easy. When I speak of a good tradition, I mean the starting point, because not everything that is tradition can be applied for the future and therefore cannot always be called "good". The conflict, the escalation, the fight will not be spared us, and we must not spare ourselves either. But if we were not to find solutions afterwards, we would have disputed for nothing and would rightly be punished. The Social Democratic Party of Austria was seen as the strongest and strongest party in the election in December 1995. As chairman of this party, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted me with the formation of the government. It is now completed together with the Austrian People's Party. Some may appear to be two and a half months for government formation too long, all the more so than a federal budget for 1996. However, I can and will report to the House that, at this time, it has come too much more than the creation of a new federal government and the creation of a very extensive work programme. For the first time in the Second Republic, Parliament will be presented with a budget for the current but also for the next year. In this way, the new Federal Government not only ensures the consolidation of Austrian state finances in the short term, but also in the medium term. We have therefore done a lot more in the last few weeks than just negotiating a government compilation. We have completed the salary round with the public service, the financial compensatory negotiations with the federal states and municipalities are a positive one and we have started numerous structural reforms. After intensive working days and weeks, we are at the beginning of an equally intensive legislative period. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Social Democrats and People's Party interpret the results of the election of 17th century. In December 1995 as the wish of the Austrian population, both parties have to commit themselves for the full four years to deal with the upcoming issues in our country. All members of the Federal Government make this commitment, also in the knowledge and confidence of a similar cooperation here in the House. This shows not the weakness, but the strength of Austrian parliamentarianism. Without Parliament, a government in Austria cannot, in any case, rule wisely! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The two parties presented their ideas and demands to voters in the election movement. In the negotiations, they have consistently put together the most important demands from the election campaign, settled against each other and found a compromise. Now the voters have the right to fully and quickly implement this compromise. The search for a majority in individual cases is diametrically opposed to this desire. I recognize the cooperation of these two parties, not just from the perspective of political arithmetic. It has succeeded in making adjustments without giving up principles and involving the social partners, other stakeholders and the local authorities, which would certainly not have been achieved in another form of political cooperation. The inevitable question about the winner has already been asked. The answer is clear. The winner is our country, which will once again receive a calculated and stable state government that rests on a good foundation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, another reason is very important to me why the cooperation between SPÖ and ÖVP is the best for our country under the given circumstances. At a time when radicalisms are no longer just exotic marginalities, at a time when politically motivated terrorist attacks are also practiced in our country, we are dealing with civilized and predictable ways of dealing with politics and public life. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At such a time, it is also about moderation and consideration in political reasoning and language. In such a time, interconnecting is more important than interconnecting and interplaying. Austria needs – I mean – a government that makes consensus its maximum of action and does not strengthen polarization. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! A declaration of government must first and foremost implement the principle of political position. Since this Federal Government is to lead Austria up to the magic year 2000, there should be fundamental considerations at the beginning of its work, in which direction our country is heading and which cliffs it is to be bypassed. Our world changes at an unprecedented speed and to an unprecedented extent. That policy is called for by politicians seems to me of course. The times have become more crisis-like, more complex and inconspicuous than ever before. It is claimed that, in view of this, politics and politicians have become more insolent. It's not like that, I mean. They will only increasingly become a kind of "universal responsibility" as expressed by German sociologist Niklas Luhmann; "universal responsibility" who must have prepared answers as soon as possible, as far as possible, generally and as much as possible. These demands are not satisfied by anyone, nor by politicians. We must therefore seek and provide political solutions with honesty, openness and willingness to cooperate. The political image of the future will no longer be able to be exclusive, to provide apartments and loans, to guarantee jobs and to pay business rounds. The policy of the future will be to give people a guide, to open up to them the possibilities of developing themselves out of a good economic and social security, to perceive their own opportunities, to take their fate into their own hands, but to know, in any case, that they are not alone. That is how we must understand our community, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The progressive division of work leads to a stronger internal distinction in society. Large operating units are more and more broken down into small units. Increasingly large proportions of production are ordered from subcontractors. Or: Women with Matura – 20 years ago in minority numbers – are now an important group. In another twenty years, they will be more than all auxiliary workers together. Or: The traditional pattern of life by which one makes a training in youth, in which one learns everything necessary for the profession, this pattern of life becomes increasingly rare. It is replaced by life-long learning. Knowledge and information are produced, distributed and sold faster, more extensive, more diversified than with the old economic patterns of explanation. Ladies and gentlemen! These examples could continue. These are new social patterns that also demand new instruments of policy making. The state is no longer responsible and responsible for all and all. But he has to take care of the basic safeguards. He has the infrastructure available, i.e. roads, railways, schools, hospitals, telecommunications. This costs money and costs more and more money in view of the greater opportunities for education, longer life and better health. For this reason, responsible policies will always have to go into the field of alternatives and find themselves there in a marked way. This also includes, and above all, preparing the economic foundations in such a way as to ensure future-oriented jobs and thus consumption and taxation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! We know – and we live at a time when unemployment has again become one of the most pressing problems of our society; worldwide, more than 800 million people today are without work – that the upturn of the world economy will not be enough to eliminate or end this global mass unemployment. We will therefore have to work again and again on how to deal with the problem of underemployment and overproductivity and what position our Austrian and our employees will have in a global economy. In any case, it is one of the major aims of the Federal Government to expand Austria's location and secure employment. Austria has highly qualified workers. Austria has a lot of creativity, commitment and diligence. We need to benefit from this together, and that is why the Federal Government has launched a new offensive for growth and employment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If the German Gunter Hofmann wrote recently: Today, the conditions dictate the laws, then we deliberately do not find ourselves with this sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! It is five major objectives that the new Federal Government has committed itself to its work, five major objectives to be pursued over the next four years. In addition to the employment offensive and the expansion of Austria's economic location, it will be a consolidated government budget. In doing so, we do not understand savings as a self-evident, but as a necessary prerequisite for having room for movement and to remain politically operational. The third major political area to which the new Federal Government will devote itself is Austria's role as a member of the European Union. Before the start of the Intergovernmental Conference this year, two years before the Austrian Presidency in the European Union, but also before the first EU election in Austria this year, new impetus needs to be set in order to be even stronger and better informed and co-formed than before. A fourth major field of policy is that of security. In addition to internal and external security, we are based on a comprehensive concept of security which also addresses social and environmental security. Austria has taken on a pioneering role both in environmental and social standards. Finally, fifthly, we want to devote a number of reform measures to very different areas, such as training, justice, health, transport and many other issues. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! This programme is an offensive reform programme in all areas of society. We're writing the facts, the states aren't just going on. The public expenditure and the tasks of the state have been reviewed for their purpose. They have been evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively, and this has resulted in a very courageous programme because it covers many so-called taboo themes. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Long before its formal education, the Federal Government, together with the social partners, launched an offensive for growth and employment. Although our economic data are significantly better than most EU Member States, we must not wait until the crisis reaches Austria. This task is serious. Even economic growth does not necessarily lead to a reduction in unemployment. To guarantee jobs and finance them through the budget is not a common way. It is necessary to have an economic policy that makes it possible to expand and build up existing businesses – whether by foreigners or by foreigners – and thus to create or maintain meaningful jobs. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Since the export potential of the Austrian economy is not exhausted, the presence on foreign markets must be supported, industrial settlements must be promoted and access to capital should be facilitated for small and medium-sized export-intensive companies. Investments in transport, environment, energy and telecommunications must be strengthened. They not only improve the quality of life of citizens, but above all also the quality of the economic location. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, we have planned to increase housing aid, to facilitate environmental investments and building renovations in order to help the economy in this way. And because the economy is best revived by the creation of new companies, the Federal Government will take numerous measures to support new companies. We want to put a signal with this, namely a signal not of thoughtless saving pen, but of reasonable impulses. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are clear – we do not dispute this and we cannot even discuss it away – that Austria has a lot to do with technology policy in order to bring research activities in the Austrian economy to European level. This is not only a matter of public investment in research and development, but it is also very much a task of the Austrian companies, some of which still have to be won. The Federal Government will move forward and carry out certain parts of the privatisation proceeds of research and technology funding. Ladies and gentlemen! Qualified employees, especially skilled workers and engineers, are traditionally one of the greatest strengths of the Austrian economy. That is why it is one of the major challenges facing the Federal Government, together with the young people in teaching professions, together with the economy, together with the social partners, to ensure good training in the framework of the financial resources available to us. This extends from the provision of education to the availability of over-company teaching workshops to the dissemination of teaching professions and from improved foreign language teaching to the strengthening of the promotion of women. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Flexibility and mobility are constantly required. But flexibility and mobility can not only be required by workers and workers. They must also be indicated in the public education provision. The topic of opening up and permeability in each school type is therefore on the agenda. Graduates of a teaching should have direct access to the colleges, which are excellently accepted as a school type. Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, it is not only about training itself, but also about the long-term recognition of skilled workers in society that actually comes to them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In order to take other new ways in the employment and location offensive, we will be able to meet from the political side to a creative dialogue with the social partners in such a way as to make working hours in such a way that, on the one hand, they can best serve the compatibility of work and family and, on the other hand, meet the needs of the economy in competition and in the different cycles of demand. And last but not least, it is worth mentioning that at the federal level – and we invite all the other local authorities, the federal states and the local authorities, to cooperate with us and to do the same – we are taking a new approach to simplify administration and reduce the administrative authorisation channels. This applies to business start-ups as well as to settlements and infrastructure projects. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If a person does not start or expand a business only because he has to wait for a permit for years, he will soon find a location outside of Austria more interesting or buy a security instead of a workshop. And we need to take note of this and work on it. High house! Unlike many other countries, Austria has managed a major structural change in recent years. I remember: Just a decade ago, the crisis of the nationalized industry was daily conversation. Since then, much has happened. Much of this industry is successfully managed today, has been successfully introduced on the stock market and partly works with great profits. The pragmatic path is being continued. We will separate and privatise where it makes sense for Austrian interests and, of course, for workers. For the next four years, we have undertaken to transfer the federal shares of Bank Austria and the credit institution, to convert the post into a stock company, and to carry out restructuring steps for Austria tobacco, salins and state printing. All of this will take account of the healthy economic process. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! The Federal Government has set itself the goal of reducing the deficit in the Federal Budget to 2.7 percent of gross domestic product by 1997. Countries and municipalities have agreed to reduce their deficit to 0.3 percent of gross domestic product. The main reason for this policy is to preserve political scope. Tax money must not flow in excess into debt repayment, but into politically meaningful and wanted benefits. We want to save with the consolidation programme, but at the same time we must also make reforms. We see the need to save as an opportunity. In the case of large areas of expenditure in public budgets, the dynamics of staffing is reduced and administrative procedures are reduced. Countries and municipalities shall contribute to these objectives in their fields of action. At this point I say a word of thanks and recognition to the public servants. They and their representatives in the public service trade unions have contributed in a particularly responsible way to the development of the consolidation course, while also accepting little encouraging measures for them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is all the more significant than the work attack for officials in recent years has become no less, but more, not least through EU membership and through the opening of the borders in the east and north-east of our country. The public service provides for the impotent and exemplary functioning of the administration, which often does so under great strain and, in most cases, unthankful. At this point he was particularly emphasized. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the case of public transfers which are heavily affected by the overall impact, streamlining of benefits and effective abuse control will make the social system more balanced and at the same time reduce total expenditure. Economic support should be more geared towards EU programmes in order to ensure optimum use of co-financing. In other words, We need many projects to get the money paid by Austria to the European Union's funds back to Austria more than before. On the revenue side, the Federal Government will continue the current line of broadening the basis of assessment and closing tax gaps. The aim is to increase the quality of the site by providing a temporary tax advantage for investments that can be used in the longer term. In order to increase tax rates on benefit income, it will not be possible to ensure the attractiveness of Austria's location. In particular, labour costs are stabilised and labour costs are prevented. At the same time, however, the greening of the tax system must be promoted. Energy taxation should include electricity and natural gas. In the transport sector, appropriate measures are intended to achieve greater cost reliability and energy savings. The increase in capital income tax and the inheritance and gift tax ensure that all types of income make an appropriate contribution to consolidation. Tobacco tax should also be increased by a measure. This project of the Federal Government will ensure a social balance of the measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Higher incomes make a higher contribution, lower incomes make a lower contribution to the consolidation of our public budgets. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have set signs in the Federal Government itself to contribute to the general saving: two Federal Ministries and three State Secretariats less than in the 1994 government. High house! Austria is now a member of the European Union for more than a year. There is no doubt that some sectors and professions are struggling with difficulties in adapting. In total, however, significant benefits can be clearly assessed for Austria. However, it is worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not joined the EU because of some price advantages or food labelling, but we have considered the basic idea to be a common ground with other Europeans, within which all areas of life and policy should be best developed. This common ground serves, above all, to bring about a lasting peace for all times after thousands of years of war. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's why the question "Yes or no to the common Europe?" No longer today, but it raises the question of the future "like each other in Europe?" Furthermore, we have not yet found the right attitude to this idea of Europe everywhere. Too often the thought "here Vienna – since Brussels" predominates and vice versa. In reality, we ourselves are Brussels, or at least part of it, because as one of 15 Member States with equal rights at the Union's table, we can take part in and participate in the broad lines of European policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For vital Austrian interests, it is of course the highest duty of the Federal Government to take decisions within the Union for the same. Other Member States do the same. If there is a conflict there and there, this happens over time to every member country; there is enough political debate in the country as well. Neither the latter nor the pattern students we strive to be; these are not the appropriate categories for us. Perceiving interests on the basis of the rights and obligations acquired by membership – this describes our political position. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In any event, it will also be the government's primary task to make European processes clearer, more transparent and more visible. To this end, we will soon be launching a new information action by the Federal Government, and in particular we want to engage in dialogue with the people about the future of the Union and our role. Eastern enlargement, monetary union, the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference and the Austrian Presidency in 1998 will be particular concerns to be discussed with the population. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of unacceptablely high unemployment in Europe – 18 million in the 15 EU countries – corresponds to an unemployment rate of almost 11 percent. But also the problem of environmental imbalances and the problem of lack of security will be on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference, especially thanks to Austrian commitment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For a country such as Austria, which has also pursued a very successful employment policy due to its stability-oriented monetary policy, monetary union is an important prerequisite for a successful export and thus employment policy. Austria will therefore try to be with the first countries to be members of the monetary union, but also to ensure that the Social Agreement of the Maastricht Treaty is incorporated into the new Treaty in order to avoid distortion of competition by social dumping. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Without the involvement of the Central and Eastern European countries, social and environmental imbalances within the Union will become even more drastic in relation to those countries. This, in turn, is detrimental to pan-European stability. That is why we agree that the accession negotiations with the countries mentioned will be opened as soon as possible after the Intergovernmental Conference has been concluded. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! At a time of profound change in Europe and increasing globalisation, the Federal Government has been particularly concerned about the stability of our country and the security of our citizens. We see security as a comprehensive concept, which covers the protection of jobs, social security and the preservation of our environment, as well as issues of internal and external security or human rights and tolerance. The prospects that we want to implement, and especially in the European Union, range from closer cooperation between the European Union and the Western European Union in the areas of crisis management, peacekeeping and humanitarian operations to a policy for the enlargement of the European Union to Central and Eastern Europe, which is probably the best investment for our security. We are particularly concerned with the creation of a foreign and security policy, which can in fact be called "joint" and not just in the interest of some Member States. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Until we achieve this goal, ladies and gentlemen, it seems realistic to take a longer route. That is why it would be unwise for a country as small and geopolitical as exposed as Austria to give up security-political scope and set itself on a single institutional option. One more thing has to be said clearly: Security and stability in Europe go far beyond the structures of the European Union. The Federal Government will therefore actively develop cooperation in all security forums, thus making an important contribution to the fact that there are no new lines of separation on our continent, but a common area of peace and security. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This applies in particular, ladies and gentlemen, to our active cooperation within the NATO "Partnership for Peace" and within the framework of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We will face these new challenges and make the necessary arrangements. We can draw on a proven tradition of living solidarity. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all Austrians who have contributed to this very personal solidarity, who have made such an important contribution to peace in the world within the framework of IFOR in Bosnia, at the Golan, in Cyprus, in Haiti, in Cambodia and elsewhere, and who demonstrate Austria's solidarity as individuals every day. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, the dynamic change in our security environment also affects the task of military national defence. The Federal Government will therefore endeavour, in addition to an efficient military defence, to increase the Federal Government's willingness to make international operations more effective. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the run-up to government, we have also reached an agreement, a pre-convention on civil service law. In the interests of legal certainty for civil servants, the Federal Government is committed to the final and permanent abolition of the verification of conscience and to establishing a uniform, independent duration of civil service from changing conditions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to all the importance we attach to European integration, the Federal Government also wants to further strengthen the international presence of Austria. On the one hand, it is a question of making offensive use of the opportunities arising from free world trade for our economy and for the protection of jobs. On the other hand, we can only make full use of our design opportunities in the Union if we show a clear profile in our international relations and are willing to actively set stability and peace policy priorities. This applies to the strengthening and reform of the United Nations and to new ways of development cooperation, as well as the building of a peace order in the former Yugoslavia and a constructive partnership with Russia and Ukraine. And this also applies, and above all, to our commitment in the Middle East, where it is not only about the salvation of the peace process, but also about the fight against the terror that the community of states must face with determination – in Israel and everywhere else in the world. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why the Federal Government, which I have led, will do everything in the legislative period ahead of us, so that Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe in the future. Fighting international organised crime is one of the priority objectives: Drug cartels, trafficking in human beings, towing, car sliders and the like. In the national field, it must be a matter of largely preventing the mobility of criminal organizations at the Austrian border and thus of preventing organised crime from accessing our country and through Austria to other countries, such as the European Union. The consistent extension and extension of the border service of the Gendarmerie, the continuation of the assistance of the Austrian Federal Army and the best possible cooperation of the Gendarmerie and Customs Guard are to contribute to this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As far as the use of modern technical tools and methods of investigation is concerned, the Federal Government is aware not only of the importance for a modern crime fight, but also of the need to protect fundamental rights. New technical investigation methods, such as acoustic and optical monitoring of persons or automated data alignment, should therefore be able to be applied in cases of a serious risk to public security and in the context of very close legal regulations relating to judicial approval. High house! The management of large-scale refugee flows and migration needs the greatest possible European cooperation. As in the past, Austria will remain in its own field of activity for those people who are subjected to persecution in their home country for political or religious reasons or because of racial origin. In the area of the additional right of residence, integration is given priority over re-entry, as the capacity for admission of the labour market and the housing market in Austria is still to be observed in the future. High house! The future of a country is youth, and the future of youth is its training. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Any investment in training is also an investment in the future. The existing resources are scarce, therefore they can be used as well as in such a way that the existing educational provision is open to all and without financial barriers to entry. This is not a matter of course in other countries, but with us it is a huge achievement of the general public. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The scarcity of the funds is linked to a number of reforms: The creation of permissiveness to facilitate violations and recognitions; the networking of existing educational opportunities; the autonomy of schools; the opening of Europe to young people through non-bureaucratic recognition of schooling abroad; legal recognition procedures for private and foreign universities; Austrian academies, universities should be able to act as a study provider abroad; the increased involvement of Austrian researchers in research institutions of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And in the country you lock them up!]] A common topic is the stronger link between basic research and applied research. Not least, the Federal Government wants to go new ways with the creation of a resort, a place in which innovation, technology, infrastructure, science, research and culture are linked, all areas of importance for the future design of our country. These are certainly areas that are well uplifted with courage and imagination in a Ministry of the Future and will trigger new impulses. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Once again and for all the future, we make it clear that art can be done in Austria without hindrance. We will continue to work to ensure that art receives a critical appreciation that it is honestly dealt with, but that art and its representatives do not become the free will of those who feel more comfortable in closed and authoritarian systems. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! One of the most important questions for our country is how we deal with the further development of the information society. This question is important from various points of view. It also decides on securing the economic location of Austria as well as on the further development of our media, or on the future ability to suit young people adequately the challenges of the 21st century. ==References====External links== There's more to it than anything else. The development is coming anyway, it's better, we use it. Adjustments to copyright protection, consumer protection and labour law are necessary in order to protect intellectual property and promote creativity even under new conditions. Above all, access to the new media must be as open as possible, but also cheaper and easier. It is only in this way that we as a society can make the new opportunities comprehensive and accessible to everyone and act democratically and integratively. By increasing global networking, by increasing capacity and faster computers, improved lines will also change the use of the media in the long term. In this field of tension, it is important for a relatively small country like Austria with its diverse culture and identity to have strong and viable media. Therefore, in the case of radio and television, we expressly confess to the side-by-side of public-law and private, commercial-oriented media. With the printing media we want to obtain the widest possible variety of daily newspapers, magazines and magazines. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In order to ensure a strong public-law television in this situation, the ORF will be converted into a stock company and its position will be strategically secured by opening new business areas. To this end, it is also necessary to maintain the dual funding base, i.e. financing from fees and advertising. On private radio, we will innovation the Regional Radio Act in such a way that, according to the original plans in all the federal states, at least one regional and local private radios can start operations quickly. The examples of Styria and Salzburg show that the media policy approach that we had set out in the liberalisation of the radio, which was actually right, is the approach: only one regional radio per state – except for Vienna, there two – in order not to break up advertising, and in a second step only local radio. With the agreement that the ORF remains the fourth radio frequency chain, the most difficult constitutional obstacle could be removed. In the case of private commercial television, cable distribution should be regulated by law as quickly as possible in accordance with the highest judicial decisions in this field. It will also take into account the regulation of terrestrial television of the future. High house! Strengthening citizens' confidence in justice as an indispensable basis for the democratic rule of law will continue to be the focus of justice policy. The main focus is on ensuring the efficiency of justice by continuing work on the renewal of the judiciary: in the service of more citizens, in the service of effective legal protection. In addition, justice will also contribute to the general political objective of enhancing the security of the citizen – understood in a comprehensive sense. Once again, this is about a rational criminal law and enforcement policy in the service of effective crime control, improved victim protection and sustainable resocialisation. On the other hand, reforms in the field of civil law will help to continue to make Austria's economic location attractive and effectively ensure social and economic weakness through improved legal protection against social and economic disadvantages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The aim is to improve protection against family violence by creating effective means of judicial and security authority intervention and cooperation with family and women's advisory services. Women's homes and emergency facilities are also to be included in this programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! Important objectives of this government programme, in particular the consolidation of public finances, will only be successful in the common effort of all local authorities. The cooperation of the federal states in drawing up the foundations for the 1996 and 1997 budgets has pave the way for this. Not least in the interest of the Federal and Land budgets, therefore, will be one of the cornerstones of this new partnership, which will be set up to prevent financial or budgetary problems and unforeseen burdens by the legislation of another local authority. Ladies and gentlemen! However, new policy requirements must also lead to new structures in politics itself; Reforms must not stop at their own doorstep. That is why the Federal Government will again be adopting a reference reform for politicians. The zero-on-one rounds will continue for 1996 and 1997, an income pyramid should ensure clear and transparent income conditions, and the policy-oriented areas will not be able to escape these rules either. We are talking about a signal, but above all about the honest willingness to ensure transparency. I shall now come, Mr President, to an area which is thought to have been forgotten in the preparation of the consolidation programme, namely health care. I can assure all those who accept this that we are – quite the contrary! – a very comprehensive reform of health care. This will create the necessary conditions for ensuring the well-functioning medical care and the financing of the health system next year. The Federal Minister for Health has presented a number of reform proposals. In this context, those who blame the Federal Government for their failure to implement these structural reforms should once again be explained that these reforms cannot be decreed, but in particular must be negotiated and jointly implemented with the health care professionals who have to implement these structural reforms. In the course of the financial compensatory negotiations, the Federal Government has declared its willingness to provide additional 12 billion schilling over the next four years if the health care providers implement important structural reforms, including a binding health care plan and the introduction of performance-oriented funding. This willingness of the Federal Government, in addition to providing 12 billion schilling, is not a matter of course at a time when it is a matter of realizing a 100-billion schilling consolidation program. We therefore document the importance of the reform of Austrian health care for the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent days, very much and very intensive discussions have been held on the impact of consolidation measures on women in Austria. I take this debate very seriously, of course, and I would remind you once again that the level of benefits for women in our country is very high. This high level is not least a result of the women's policy activities of the two previous legislative periods. I mention the improvement in the billing of child rearing periods, but also generally the equal treatment package and the introduction of the second year of leave. Hardly any other country provides for a two-year care allowance. However, I do not know that this benefit also poses labour market problems, and I do not want to admit that we have underestimated the costs of the second year of karenz when it was introduced and therefore now have to make corrections. This savings measure, which I do not discuss away, will be supplemented and suspended by the provision of additional 600 million schilling for childcare projects. Additional facilities for children of all ages should therefore be provided for children of all ages with appropriate and full-day opening hours at socially graded rates. I assume that this initiative by the Federal Government will improve the compatibility of work and family life and a greater level of equal opportunities in our society. Efforts to create part-time work will also be strengthened. In order to achieve this goal, we will be more concerned about family counseling and parenting. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Any presentation of social reforms and savings presupposes that the Austrian social state has reached a level similar to that of the Austrian social state. As an example of social reforms, I call for efforts, particularly through labour market policies, to increase the actual retirement age. The current special support for older workers, which was sometimes used to exempt older people at the expense of the social budgets, expires. In this context, social justice means providing for sufficient transitional provisions to ensure the life planning of those concerned. Sufficient transitional provisions are a criterion for ensuring a high level of employment. A bonus malus system is therefore introduced at the same time as the abolition of special support, which provides incentives for businesses to continue to employ older workers or to stop them in addition. In the future, a malus will have to pay for those entrepreneurs who release older workers. In order to counter the threat of an increase in unemployment, it will be necessary to use the entire tool of active labour market policy. This need will also be taken into account during the budgetary consolidation phase. In the area of unemployment insurance, the principle of saving was consistently implemented through reforms. The integration of unemployed people takes precedence over passive services. A very important issue for the future not only to protect the individual, but also to maintain our social security system is the social security of telework and other atypical work relations. In the future, workers' contracts will be included in social security in order to prevent the escape from social security. This is a very important reform measure – not only because work contracts have often been misused to cover employment relationships, but also because it is believed that atypical employment conditions will be the typical employment conditions on the labour market of the next millennium. Ladies and gentlemen! The best safeguarding of the pension is, of course, a successful economic and employment policy. Nevertheless, steps of modern development and harmonisation of systems must be taken again and again. A clear priority towards maintaining the greatest possible employment is set by reforms in the areas of incapacity for work and invalidity. The principle of rehabilitation before retirement is reinforced – including by a general period of invalidity pension for two years or for the duration of rehabilitation. The second essential aspect of pension reforms is the strengthening of the insurance principle and a new pension calculation model which favours longer periods of insurance. This will also create a financial incentive for individual workers to stay in employment longer. None of the pension reforms intervene in existing pensions. The statutory retirement age will not be increased either. Modern reforms of the pension system are without abrupt changes. However, it is certainly necessary to take greater account of the number of months of insurance. The number of required months of contribution will therefore be increased from 1. January 1997 gradually increased from 420 to 450 months. High house! I am making my statement on environmental and energy policy in relation to employment and jobs. Over many years, the achievement of the one has been seen as incompatible, as incompatible with the achievement of the other objective. It seemed that issues of environmental protection would always be considered less important when job security issues came to the fore. I mean, both views are outdated and wrong and do not correspond to today's contexts. Environmental protection does not destroy, but creates jobs. [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the greens.]] I would like to illustrate this in two examples. Example number one: More than 3,000 jobs will be created through the granting of special tranches each of 1 billion schilling for urban water construction and the restoration of the old load. At the same time, these investments will also benefit the quality of our soils and our groundwater. Example number two: Investment in transport infrastructure not only improves the economic location, not only increases the attractiveness for industrial settlements and not only creates potential for new jobs, but also guarantees quality of life. The extension of the railway and the shift from road to rail – a key element of Austrian transport policy for many years – are therefore to be driven forward by the implementation of a rail infrastructure law. At the same time, we will work at the level of the European Union for the continuation of trans-European networks, and in particular international rail links, in order to fully exploit the ecological potential and to avoid inefficient "island solutions". However, I see only a realistic future perspective for these efforts – in particular investor advertising – if the principle of cost-truth succeeds in anchoring the principle of cost-truth more than before in our economic structure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Furthermore, the current discussion on the increase or introduction of road and motorway toads shows that we still have a considerable amount of conviction in this regard, both at national level and at our neighbours. The aim of our efforts must, in any event, be to achieve a rapid transfer of these systems to road pricing through the gradual increase of road tolls and charges within the meaning of the Road Costs Directive of the European Union. We have also undertaken in the field of environmental policy to strengthen efforts to protect and clean air through the use of conventional, but also new economic instruments. In this context, I would like to mention that the Federal States will receive a financial allocation of over 1 billion schilling for the implementation of environmentally friendly and energy-saving measures from the proceeds of the proposed energy levy. This corresponds, by the way, to the content and scale of the climate protection billions required by many environmental organisations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Austria's energy policy is facing new and increased demands through its accession to the European Union. It has a good, independent reputation in Europe. This reputation is based in particular on the high share of renewable energy sources in total energy supply, i.e. hydropower, in some respects biomass, and on the diverse and committed activities of Austria against the use of nuclear energy in Europe. Both premises will also shape the work of the next four years, in particular because the serious and competent appearance of Austrian politicians and scientists at European level has for the first time brought transparency and, subsequently, thoughtfulness into the decision-making processes for the construction of nuclear power plants. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Contrary to many fears, the year 1 after Austria's accession to the European Union of domestic agriculture has not brought its downfall. Instead, agricultural income has succeeded in stabilising and opening up new opportunities at a really difficult time. Two factors were particularly responsible for this: Factor number One was the support package for agriculture, written in the German Federal Government's Europe Agreement, whose contents are jointly borne by the Federal Government, the federal states and the European Union. Factor number two – and I consider it to be at least as important – was and is the willingness of Austrian farmers to face the new challenge and – here is a comparison allowed – not to put the head in the sand, but to pack the bull with the horns. We have therefore dealt with the immediate transition to a new system relatively well – yet it must be clear to all parties that we have only taken a first step, although important. Much has to be done on the spot in the villages, in the municipalities, in the regions and in the regions, but much has also moved to the level of the European Union. In this way, we want and will take action in Brussels to ensure that the ecological orientation of agriculture becomes an integral part of the EU's common agricultural policy. To this end, it is necessary to extend the programmes for environmentally sound agriculture and forestry to the central pillar of agricultural policy and to link as much aid and support as possible to environmental support conditions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second central element of home agricultural policy is the social issue. We know that many of the European Union's achievements are so designed that the large units benefit more than the smaller units. I think it must be in the interests of a farm-structured agriculture and forestry like ours to bring greater social security into the system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this sense, Austria will also work to ensure that the European Union takes far more account of the social criteria in the design of agricultural support. In concrete terms, this means that, in particular in the areas of mountain and other less-favoured areas and in organic farming, there is a need to enable base amounts to be taken into account in the promotion of large farms either the effects of the cost-degression or, in the case of individual measures, the reduction of support limits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! In recent years, the Austrian tourism industry has been less and less able to exploit its capacity. This has to do with changed structural factors. Natural competitive advantages fall at the expense of the so-called "movable competitive advantages", i.e. those which are not specified by the location. However, with the shifts and changes in the structure of demand, weaknesses in the Austrian supply have also become apparent, which can now be combated at all levels. The Austrian leisure industry will always be as good as its businesses are viable, but also how well their employees are trained. It will therefore be a priority for the next four years to significantly increase the attractiveness of jobs in tourism, which today is characterized by too high fluctuations, through new and modern career profiles, through new working time models and social policy accompanying measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An important leisure factor is undoubtedly the sport. In doing so, both the importance of broadband as a balance to daily professional life and as a contribution to the health of our children as well as the exemplary effect and multiple advertising function of the top-level sport is undisputed. The most targeted use of the available funding, high-performance conditions for top-performance athletes, the deepening of the relationships between sport and the economy, politics and culture, or increased cooperation between school and sport, are just a few of the challenges ahead of us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I have now presented to you in some rough sketches the work programme of the new Federal Government. It is a programme characterised by honest effort to implement reforms for Austria, which will allow Austria to enter the next millennium. It is a programme that has been prepared according to best knowledge and conscience, a programme that requires cooperation of all those who are good will. I invite all of you to work together on this subject. Austria deserves the political leaders - the Federal Government, the Parliament, the countries, the municipalities, the social partners - to work together on a good future. We all have great responsibility. It is a responsibility that has been transferred to us by the people. We want to take on this task with courage, with imagination, with strength and dignity. It's about our Austria. [[Prolonged applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] 16.4 2
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3754	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. I would like to have a debate on this statement. According to § 81 para. 2 We will include this debate in the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session. That is what we have done in item 1 of today's agenda. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (23 of the Supplements): Austria Institute Act (62 of Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (24 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the "Diplomatic Academy Vienna" (DAK Act 1996) (63 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3800	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Templates (23 of the Supplements): Austria Institute Act (62 of Supplements) and (24 of Supplements): Federal Law on the "Diplomatic Academy Vienna" (63 of the Supplements). The rapporteur on item 2 is Mr Dr Fuhrmann. On point 3, Mr. Dr. Schwimmer will report. Please, Mr Dr. Fuhrmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3822	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I bring the report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (23 of the Supplements), the Austrian Institute Act, with which a civil society law is to be established to carry out German courses abroad, which could also carry out other cultural tasks abroad. This draft was discussed in detail in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and was finally adopted by a majority vote. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft law (23 of the Supplements) presented by the Federal Government. Mr President. As I assume that there are statements of speech, I would ask that the debate continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3849	Thank you, Mr Fuhrmann. The rapporteur on the next point is Mr Dr Schwimmer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3867	Mr President. High house! I will return the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (24 of the supplements): Federal Law on the "Diplomatic Academy Vienna". The aim of the Federal Law is to break down the "Diplomatic Academy Vienna" into a company-run public law institution with its own legal personality and adapt the training offer to the needs of a modern external service. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also negotiated this proposal and discussed it in detail. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council should give constitutional approval to the draft bill annexed to the written committee report. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3898	Thank you, colleague Dr. Schwimmer. The reporting has therefore been made. As far as the debate is concerned, two "Vienna hours" have been decided at the beginning of this meeting. This results in the following speaking times – I may quote it again: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberal Forum 18 minutes, Green 18 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e3930	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The chance – at least from an opposition point of view – could not have been better off than that according to the government statement of the Federal Chancellor – more critical spirits than I am, it meant that it was rather the fairy tale hour of the uncle Franz – with its many beautiful and less beautiful words, also the necessary saving that Austria Institute law is being negotiated. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Holger and the wild geese!]] Ladies and gentlemen, who have had nothing to do with this so far, may ask themselves: Why? What does this, in its view, perhaps have to do with the grand declaration made by our highly esteemed Federal Chancellor? – That’s why it’s such a beautiful coincidence, because the immediate sequence makes it obvious how far with this old new government theory on the one hand, practice on the other, poetry and truth separate. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What's this about? – So far, German courses have been held within the scope of the so-called Austrian cultural institutions – most of us are a term, generally a very positive concept. - So far, so good. But, High House, what's going to happen now is scurry to grotesk. Less well-run contemporaries could also think it's more than annoyed what's going to happen now. The German courses – I say again: The German courses so that you can capture the whole dimension of this problem – should now be distributed by the cultural institutions and – you listen and marvel! – a capital company of its own to be founded. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Will it be saved in the whole?]] The whole thing, as we have been told in the Committee, is justified by the following: The German courses will and will need to be organized more professionally in the future than before. – There the chickens laugh, the cock is playing, and I laugh with, but a little sarcastic-ironic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – As if professional German courses could be held professionally only within the framework of a capital company to be founded, in an administrative body specifically to be founded, and not in the context of the cultural institutions as before! If there really were problems there, then you just have to look around a few better German teachers. This would solve the problem, but you do not need to create your own GesmbH! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Apart from that, High House – and with that I have landed between the theory of the Declaration of Government and the practice already in political everyday life –: My group and I would have been able to concentrate in savings times, like these, on reflections in the exact opposite direction, such as existing resources, embassies, foreign representations, cultural institutions, in order to be used efficiently instead of establishing new administrative bodies for the implementation of German courses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Yeah, they're part of it, too, very right! But please – and I want to bring this to your attention –: That's the "coalition new," she looks like. High house! You listen and marvel: The GesmbH to be founded will – of course, I would like to say almost – have a central administrative office in Vienna. Overall, this GesmbH will have at least 15 employees, I guess it will become 20 over time. And for this "great, inconceivable" administrative complex – 15 employees! – For the event of German courses, it is interesting that two managing directors are necessary. [[Call out to the liberals: great! Proporz!]] Two managing directors are necessary so that German courses with a total of 15 employees can be organized professionally! You need to be old in the coalition – not new! – two managing directors. Black-red proporznichall, I hear you kicking! – With this, everything has already been said, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Nisser.]] Yes, Mr Neisser, just: New to this process is really nothing. It's urural and smells like the tax payer sky! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schöll: She is no longer present!]] And here I must tell you one thing, dear comrades of the left half of the empire: The fact that for you a pustle in the otherwise black managed resort also falls, that will be the deeper reason why in the foreseeable future you are likely to rise quite well from your seats and this nonsense, this waste of tax money will give your consent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Marizzi has already signed in!]] Yes, you will only do it for that! The disbelief, when I presented this to your representatives on the basis of concrete examples, on the basis of quotations and documents in committee, of the amazement at this monsterity, which was born in the black resort, was not to be overlooked, and this also led the Social Democratic Committee chairman himself to put very, very critical questions in this direction. Only: they didn't use anything! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He applied!]] You will still agree in about half an hour, I suppose. It's exactly to the cost side. In addition to the argument that professionalism can only be achieved within the framework of a separate German courses, it is further claimed that – the Secretary of State will probably not tire out to repeat this if she has not been taught a better person – this project will give discharge to the federal budget, through the saving of twelve planning posts. Let us stand by this allegation: So twelve planning sites are saved. On the other hand, 15 new ones are indisputably outside the budget. And if you think there's budgetary savings in the breakdown, then you're formally right, but of course not in the matter. This claimed saving of twelve planning posts is opposed to the creation of 15 new and other planning sites outside the budget. The government paper contains 14, I say once 15, but it does not matter to you whether it is 14 or 15 planning posts. Of course, it must be assumed that these 15 staff are not paid according to the federal scheme – like the saved planning posts – but according to other, namely private economic considerations. This is certainly nice for the ladies and gentlemen who will then work with two managing directors in this GesmbH. I have already experienced something very similar in this regard, in the context of the establishment of the Bundesbältverwaltungs-AG. This has ended with the fact that the ladies and gentlemen officials are now doing what they did at first within their own department in the Federal Ministry of Finance in their own Federal Financial Debts AG, where they are largely rewarded in terms of private economics. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You tell the story for the second time!]] That is why there will be no savings. It'll be more expensive. But I am happy for those ladies and gentlemen officials who may then work there who come to the train – if they have the right party book! [[Abg. Arbitrators: These are the representatives of point 3!]] Peter, be mild to me this time; I am just praising you. The Committee, by the way, has drawn attention to the question raised by the Social Democratic President, Peter Schieder, as follows: [[Abg. Scheibner: Did he apply for the course?]] There is no longer at all these twelve planning sites that are supposed to be saved! These have already been deleted in 1994 or 1995. They don't even exist anymore! Painted planning sites, which were not occupied at all, now lead to great savings. That is, you are bringing something as a saving into the meeting, which can no longer be saved at all, because no longer exists. - That's how things look with light. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You might wonder why I'm going to roll this out with attention to detail here. – Because I want to lead you to see in practice what seemed so beautiful about savings and so on half an hour ago. – Nothing is with it! The opposite happens. Therefore, something at the cost: In the original draft – it was then deleted, you will already know why – it has been explicitly stated that there will have to be loss cover and that these will be burdened by the annual federal budgets. It's still in there. Furthermore, the draft has been in place – in the government template itself no longer, since you have already come up with it: Stop, that's not so cheap what's in there! – that the costs will be at least one third higher in the first year of disbursement than the current annual costs for the implementation of German courses. The Committee has also pointed out, by the way: once again, because of a common question, Mr President, of both of us, that this will not be very different even in the following years. Let us not now set ourselves on millions of amounts. In the Committee we were informed by your staff, a high-ranking official, that we were well-informed, quite open to Parliament, as it looks. And it is clear that even over the next five years, the cost of different sizes to be covered by the budget will be higher than before. The only thing that could then be brought into the meeting was: Yes, but you have to think long-term. – I am surprised that this is done in the Austrian administration, but please very much! It was said: A random break-even point can be reached, in 2001, in 2002 or sometime. And when we asked, How do you imagine that? This will be the case if other federal administration bodies delegate to these cultural tasks to be founded, commission them to carry out and, of course, pay them. High house! I do not think we really need to be a budget expert in order to realize that, if all this occurs, this could result in a break-even point in your budget of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But this will not be the case in the federal budget – and that is what it is all about. I don't even care if you reach a break-even point in your resort, if the federal budget on the other hand is just about to do so. So you don't need to be a budget expert to understand this inner connection. If it really is to be done that the Federal Offices, the administrative offices of the Federal Government, the countries – whoever – are entrusted with these GesmbHs, which are set up to carry out German courses, with other cultural tasks, one that can count two and two together, raises the question, which is then the tasks of the cultural institutions that will last. What then do the cultural institutions that have done this so far? But now, in order to reach the break-even-point, these tasks will obviously be transferred to this GesmbH for the German courses. Question: What happens to the cultural institutions? Are we going to continue these? Let's get her out of here? - Why do we do the whole thing? My question goes beyond that. What about the whole thing, Mrs State Secretary and dear Grand Coalitionaries? This question was and is not only asked here by me alone, but gratefully also asked by the chairman of the Committee. It will only, as has been said, have been of no use. These questions were also raised by many reviewing bodies, in a similar form, of course less oppositional, but in the matter there were always the same questions. The Court of Auditors, the Federal Ministry of Science and Research, the Chamber of Labour and, of course, the Federal Ministry of Finance raised this question: What's that supposed to do? This question has been particularly lovingly and meritfully accepted by the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. He has dealt with this whole story most in detail, and has lovingly crushed on two sides all of these cost arguments that you have put up there – I hope you will not mention them again. You just need to read it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why do you do this at all?]] – I’m already coming to the conclusion; Ewald Stadler looks at me critically. – The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery then sums up the following – I quote – in its six-page opinion: The advantage of self-responsible, economic action to be expected from a form of social organisation is directly suppressed here by bureaucratic decision-making procedures, which will continue to exist in this ombudsman. The question of the meaning of this organizational decision must therefore be asked seriously. - Quote. This is not from Holger Bauer, not from the opposition – green, liberal, liberal – no, your own constitutional service of the Federal Chancellor's Office writes it to you in the main book. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's amazing!]] That's going to be But they will not be able to continue along this path. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's saving à la Vranckky!]] They will vote in about half an hour and will decide on this waste of money, this nonsensus, this nonsense. I'm convinced of that. And you will get up. [[to the SPÖ]] Why, I don't know. This one can't be so important. That this managing director is a redr at the German courses, that can't be it! But I fear that the newly united Grand Coalitionaries will soon decide. I don't know, is it important to keep the coalition discipline? At the beginning, you can't do something against the coalition partner, so everything will break down again. It's supposed to be the taxpayer's figures. Or is this posterl, the managing director, really so important in the black managed resort? - I don't know. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing I know: If you decide to do this today, you will thus expose your speech of the sparingness as what it is, in fact,: Hot air, not the idea of saving itself, but only the citizen – there is saved and burdened. That's the new coalition! And that's what it was to prove.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4191	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Höchtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4260	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dkfm. Bauer referred to these templates as shurril and grotesk. I would call some of Mr Bauer's practices and behaviour scurry and grotesk, for one thing is certain: Either he doesn't want to read – or he doesn't want to understand. In fact, it has been clearly explained in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr Bauer! What you have already mentioned in the Committee as a Kasperl Theatre, you do not have to do again in plenary. The Plenum is not a Kasperl Theatre! Let this be said once! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's this about? – In the first paper on the creation of the Austrian Institute, the aim is to create a much more flexible structure of private economy and to dispel it from the system of camera-listics. It is clear that we are taking the right path with the creation of this Austrian institute, because some other countries have acquired an excellent reputation with their institutes – I mention the Institut Français, the Goethe Institute. We believe that flexibility, greater economic efficiency, the achievement of additional revenue, the abandonment of camera lysics, that all this is much easier to achieve by disseminating than by maintaining in the system of camera lysics. That is the reason why the government has tabled this proposal, and I do not think we need to get into reminiscence of the past, we are forward-looking. We stand for this foundation of the Austrian Institute because we believe that the creation of this distributed institute, which offers German courses abroad, but may also offer additional cultural activities and events, is a better basis than the previous integration into the cultural institutions. It is by no means about these twelve planning sites, as is always claimed. We have experienced the Kasperl Theatre; You took such a thing. One thing is clear: These twelve planning posts were still available at the beginning of the year, some of which were still made for them in this year. With the establishment of the Austrian Institute, not only the planning posts, but of course the payments also fall out, and we have a complete reorganisation of this institution. If the calculations – at least for the next six years – can be performed in the individual stages – and these are realistic, non-optimistic and non-pessimistic calculations, then budget savings will be at least 4.4 million schilling within six years. I believe that we are called here in plenary, the National Council and also the Federal Government, that we can use every opportunity where savings are in. I think that is a principle to which we have to confess ourselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the second template. This second proposal also has a breakdown on the content, namely the distribution of the Diplomatic Academy. I believe that this is an institution which has undoubtedly brought a great deal in the history of Austria for our foreign policy reputation. We all know that the predecessor, created as an oriental and later as a consular academy in 1754, did essential things, gifted from all levels of the population the possibility of targeted preparation for the higher Service of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But it has also given many from other countries the opportunity to have such a qualified training. Let's take a look at a few figures: Since 1965, i.e. the last 30 years where the Diplomatic Academy has emerged from the Consular Academy, 619 foreigners and foreigners have completed their studies at the Diplomatic Academy. Of these 619 graduates, 330 have Austrian citizenship. Of these 330, 152 are active in the foreign service and really represent their husband or wife, they are excellently trained, so they represent the corps of what we have in higher service in the Foreign Office. It is a very, very good training, which is now to be enriched by initiatives put forward by the preparatory staff and then presented by the Foreign Minister, with even more possibilities. This gives us the opportunity to live up to the whole globalisation of what has actually happened in recent years and decades in foreign policy and training as a whole. We have taken account of the new needs, and I believe that those who will now and in the future take positions in this new distributed form of the Diplomatic Academy in Vienna are guarantees that not only the previous level will be maintained, but also that a budgetary discharge can be achieved with additional means of revenue. That is why we believe that this division of the Diplomatic Academy into a company-run public law institution with its own legal personality is the answer to the new challenges, that a reduction in the two-year course will be possible to a single one-year course, allowing the taking into account of a postgraduate higher course for international studies, thereby opening up additional revenue in the form of special courses and seminars. As far as my assessment of this bill is concerned, I can say: I believe that those who have considered this in detail not only a few months, but also in recent years have considered all the alternatives to it, have provided a good basis for this proposal to ensure that we can also be proud in the future of the divided form of the Diplomatic Academy in Vienna. They will be given more opportunities, and this increase in opportunities will also be well used by us in Austrian foreign policy. We would like to agree with these two proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4336	Next speaker is Member Dr. Frischenschlager. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4357	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We are dealing here with two proposals, both of which are devoted to the further development of cultural, educational and foreign policy. I can say right here: We do not see any positive development in the first instance – we will reject this presentation – in the assessment of the two material materials – the Austrian Institute and the Diplomatic Academy – while we believe that the novels concerning the redesign of the Diplomatic Academy have a very suitable form of organisation, and we will therefore agree with it. First of all, I would like to go to the Austrian Institute and observe the following: The template is not in itself God knows what, but it has a bombastic title, and that bothers me, because the comparison, which Mr Höchtl has made to sound, with Goethe Institute and Institut Français is of course totally inappropriate. Apart from that, there is actually something quite different in these language courses, namely that the nucleus is laid for a competitor to the existing cultural institutions. This is the most serious objection that we have to this proposal, although at the same time I would like to stress that this task, namely these language courses, is something that can be seen very positively. I do not think it is a duty for the Republic to organise and finance this. Indeed, we have to ask ourselves in what legal form this is supposed to take place, but the opportunity to acquire, as it were, a constant group of people in other countries, who, in close contact with Austrian culture, have been given the German language to perceive this opportunity, I see as a very, very positive function of our cultural foreign policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is, however, about how we organize this. So far – in the Committee we have heard this too – the whole thing has obviously been built on a very improvising organization. In some areas, if I have understood this correctly, it has sometimes been on the brink of legality when ordering teachers abroad. So there was obviously a need to change something, but the reasons for these changes, as they are now proposed – Mr Bauer has already put it here – that there are plant savings, deregulation et cetera, more than implausible. I must say, Mrs State Secretary, whatever you said in committee, was really on the verge of what was argumentatively tolerable. We have to say that quite clearly once. So, in the certainly modest framework, great savings – human, material – are not to be expected. The main objection, however, is that a second cultural institution under a bombastic name will be possible with these Austrian institutes, which will be outsourced from the cultural institutions. Although it is stressed in the presentation and in the explanations that only the language courses are concerned, I would like to expressly point out to the House that the tasks of these Austrian institutions are only "in particular" the language courses, i.e. at any time other cultural policy activities can find their administrative and legal home here. And I think that's wrong. This is the most massive objection. The second objection is: If we are already pouring part of this foreign-political cultural activity into a new legal form, I wonder if we should not try to rethink the cultural institutions in their current form. I can imagine that the solution from the external administration, the organization in its own legal form, all the reasons you indicate why this new form of law is now being chosen in language courses, are in principle also in favour of the cultural institutions. And that is why I think it would be advisable to transfer the entire organization of cultural institutions into a different legal form, which allows for more flexibility and flexibility. From these two very basic considerations – in addition to the really inadequate reasoning in detail – we will reject the submission to the Austrian Institute Act. A few words also on the second template, to the law on the "Diplomatic Academy Vienna". This is the first time that we have to ask ourselves whether this really must be a duty for the Republic. For one thing, interestingly, this diplomat academy is not what it would be supposed to be because of its title: It could be thought that this would be, as it were, the diplomatic secondary school of the Foreign Office. This is not the case, but the foreign office still has its own particular form of formation and, above all, examination of its young about the Préalable. If the Republic holds a diplomat academy, then it would also have to be considered whether the graduates of this diplomat academy have the qualification for the diplomat profession, which has the qualifications to do so. The admission is then a second matter, but it is, of course, absurd that the Republic has a diplomat academy, but its graduates are not really in a position to pursue the diplomat profession in Austria after this course of training. There's something wrong with that. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's normal!]] In my opinion, this is not normal, because in Austria in particular, someone with the acquisition of a certain academic, simplified, in this case post-graduate qualification has access to vocational training. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Only with the school education alone not!]] That's something that's actually normal. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: The practice is missing!]] Another question – I say it again – is the recording: yes or no. But I do think that this should be considered at least once, because there is already a system of illegality. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At the ÖVP it is normal for you to enter the offices without qualification!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Just the opposite is the case!]] I would like to stress the particularity that this Academy has as its second function, because that is a very valuable aspect. Austria thus opens up, in particular, people from countries that are in transition, who now have to do with building up a new diplomatic apparatus and human substance, the opportunity to receive this training in Austria, after the abolition of totalitarian regimes. This is quite important, and this is not because of selflessness, although it is quite something I think it is an important, sometimes also development policy measure. In this case, however, we have the chance that those who have been trained here from friends will be able to provide a day of life, possibly as diplomats, a very special bond and closeness to the Republic of Austria. This is a very, very essential foreign policy value, which I would particularly like to stress, because the Diplomats Academy has demonstrated in the past that this function is a particularly important one. Ladies and gentlemen! It is possible to consider whether the existing exclusion and legal form is the Ultima ratio, whether such institutions could be moved even more into the private sector in the future. This is a question that we may be discussing when considering all our academic and postgraduate structures. Nevertheless, the form now chosen, I believe, is progress. There is more clarity there, there is in particular a very concrete link with the University of Vienna, which I consider to be a great advantage. All in all, then, it is a step forward in relation to the conditions which are now almost limited to the Blamable in some areas, especially when I recall the treatment of the teachers of this diplomat academy by the Ministry of Finance. That was a permanent source of trouble for decades, that was really embarrassing. These problems will be solved and we will therefore agree to the Law on Diplomat Academy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Today, as I would like to say, we have talked about proposals that are in the broadest sense related to cultural foreign policy. I think it would have been good, in particular, to raise the question of the Austrian institutions not only in the Committee on Culture, but also in the Committee on Culture, because we have undertaken that this Committee should carry out the cultural activities and the cultural interests. That's not what happened this time. We shall try to see to it that, in the future, proposals with such a strong cultural policy emphasis will also be debated in the Committee on Culture. In total, I believe, we will already see in a few days and weeks how seriously the Republic of Austria is doing with the cultural foreign policy. We had to experience for decades – in turn, with the forms of organization – that the funds were, in general, modest and, in addition, to a large extent, had to go to the organization as a fixed cost, while the operating budgets in the cultural foreign policy were really on the verge of being tolerated for a long time. This view must be taken if one knows that the operating budget of all cultural institutions could actually be spent on 20 or 30 million concrete cultural work, but an X-fold for the organization. This has changed a lot in recent years. I'd like to acknowledge that. We will see at the next budget whether this very essential instrument of Austrian foreign policy, namely transporting cultural policy, is being realized. One more sentence because I'm seeing my colleague Stadler here. I almost forgot that now: There has been a funny case in the Committee on Foreign Affairs during its deliberations on the Academy of Diplomats. I am sure that the political parties from educational institutions will have to withdraw. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We do too!]] I consider it intolerable and absolutely indispensable that there should be party representatives in the curatories of educational academies, as well as in the Diplomat Academy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We do too!]] I see no justification at all for this. That is why I think this change is a positive change in the future supervisory body in the Diplomats Academy. I have no understanding at all of the request of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, which, in its complete rejection of the other rhetoric by amendment, wishes to reclaim party representatives in this body of the Academy of Diplomats. We consider this proposal to be counterproductive, too reprehensible and therefore will not support it, but, as has been said, the presentation to the Academy of Diplomats.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4483	Mrs Jäger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4505	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we adopt two laws, the Austrian Institute Act and the Diplomatic Academy Law, both of which have to do with Austria's relations with abroad. The Diplomatic Academy Act aims to put an institution on a new basis for many Austrian diplomats, but not only for these, an important training centre. When the then Foreign Minister Bruno Kreisky founded the Diplomatic Academy in 1964, he stated as one of his reasons for this step that talent from all levels of the population of Austria was a targeted preparation for the higher Service of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs or for other international professions should be provided. This was linked to the idea that in a modern state the members of the diplomatic service would not only come from a closed circle, from a closed circle, which would always "renew" from the same families, but that all layers of the people should have access to the diplomatic service. Only such a diplomatic service is able to represent the Republic adequately abroad. In the now 30 years in which the Diplomatic Academy worked very well, about 150 later foreign officials were prepared for their profession for two years. These 150 foreign officials represent about 45 percent of Austrian graduates. Furthermore, it must not be overlooked that there have also been many graduates from other countries in the Diplomatic Academy, namely 289 from 76 countries, many of them mainly from the so-called developing countries and more recently from the former Eastern Bloc Reform States. These graduates were trained here in Austria for two years. They were able to imagine the culture of this country, of everyday life with us, and many of them have taken these links, which they could connect with Austria, into their homelands and have thus become a kind of Austrian ambassador to their homelands. Therefore, if, in the overall judgment on the activities of the Diplomatic Academy in the last three decades, a positive assessment has been made to a great extent, we must not forget that, due to changed conditions, because of the globalisation of international relations which has occurred since 1964, and also because of the increasing competition of comparable training institutions, a reform of this Diplomatic Academy is urgently necessary and correct. I think that a division of the Diplomatic Academy into a company-run public law institution with its own legal personality is much more appropriate to adapt the training offer to the needs of a modern foreign service, to the needs of students, but also to foreign interests. And for economic reasons too, such a reform is to be welcomed. However, it has now been shown that a two-year course for many potential participants, all of whom can already refer to a completed study, takes too long. Even if one does not come from good conditions, it is to a great extent important how long one still has to live without income, and also that one also has to bear training costs. For all these reasons, I support today's legislative project, which is linked to the positive traditions of the Diplomatic Academy, but also to the new circumstances. I am also confident that in a very dense and compressed year of training, it will be possible for those responsible to communicate almost the same knowledge and understanding of international relations for international problems, as was the case in the previous two-year course. However, I also think that it is important and worth mentioning that some changes and adjustments to the Government's proposal could still be made in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this context, I would like to point out that, at the request of MEPs Schieder and Höchtl, graduates of technical colleges have also been specifically included in the circle of those who should be prepared in the new Academy for professional activity in international organizations or in the international economy. It is certain that, at the beginning of the year, there will not be a very large number of technical colleges, but it seems to me to be important, for principle reasons, that this draft law does not lead to discrimination against graduates of higher education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can imagine very well that a graduate of a university of higher education will be joining the Diplomatic Academy for another year, in order to start a career in the international economy or an interesting activity in another international field. However, I must point out in this connection that, because of the legislation given, a graduate of higher education, even though he has successfully attended the Diplomatic Academy, cannot at present come to the Austrian diplomatic service because of the fact that the conditions in other laws are not met. I think that this situation will still have to be addressed in the next few years, but I think it is far more important that this additional training opportunity has now been opened up for the fields of international economy and international organisation for high-school graduates of this goal. I would also like to point out a second point in the amendment which extends the range of training programmes offered by the Diplomatic Academy to all the authorities of the Federal Government, but also to other local authorities. It would not be possible to see why, at the request of the competent service, national staff cannot also participate in training programmes of the Diplomatic Academy. At this point, however, I would like to address a critical word to some federal states. I think it is right that servants of the federal states will be able to participate in the training programmes of the Diplomatic Academy and that two members will also come to the significantly reduced board of trustees, but I do not think it is right that only a minority of Austrian federal states will be willing to contribute to the Foundation for Scholarship Funds of the Diplomatic Academy. I think it should also be a concern for the Austrian federal states to be able to complete the Diplomatic Academy more socially weak, but very talented. I therefore appeal in this connection to the countries which currently do not want to pay any more that they will make the contributions in this regard in the future. That is why I also welcome one of those provisions in this amendment that only more members of those federal states will be established and voted in the board of trustees who contribute to the Foundation. Of course, it is also clear to me that the contributions paid by a federal state to this pot do not necessarily benefit from scholarship recipients from that state. But the funds in this pot do not have a mesh, and of course there may also be beneficiaries from other federal states, or there may also be beneficiaries from countries such as the so-called developing countries. But I think it is very small if the federal states do not want to make any more contributions for this reason. For particularly good in this bill, I consider the project that the higher courses for international studies will be set up in close connection with the University of Vienna and that cooperation with the University of Vienna will be institutionalized. This also ensures that graduates receive the designation "Master of Advanced International Studies" and otherwise a participant certificate when reaching the teaching goal. This is precisely what I think increases the attractiveness for the new Diplomatic Academy. The fact that the application in the Committee expressly refers to cooperation with the University of Vienna does not mean, however, that other universities are devalued. It is only the University of Vienna of the universities in question that has an excellent offer to be presented in all the fields of training in the diplomatic academy. In addition, the undisputed world reputation of the University of Vienna will certainly be attractive and enjoyable for the future graduates. It has been discussed several times today: A second law is being passed here today, namely the Austrian Institute Act. It is intended to continue a positive tradition under changed conditions with greater efficiency and also with the necessary sparingness. The Austrian German courses abroad are intended by an Austrian Institute G.m.b.H. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen! International networking in all areas is increasing. Austria's external relations are becoming ever closer and more important. The legislator is constantly required that our country and its representatives find the appropriate framework conditions to meet these new challenges in the best possible way. I hope – yes, I am confident – that the new Diplomatic Academy Act has given those responsible an instrument to achieve the objectives of training efficiently and as best as possible. I believe that we have also created conditions for the fact that future graduates are not only well trained, but also more understanding of the various international relations, of the various problems of the international community, and thus also of getting a weapon to help reduce these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4605	Mrs Petrovic has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4626	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are two reports from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the establishment of an Austria Institute of GesmbH and on the Diplomatic Academy in Vienna. The Greens will agree to the Federal Law on the Diplomatic Academy in Vienna, because, in essence, we are seeing some improvements, although I am not able to follow the remarks made by Mr Frisenschlager that he is positive that the Advisory Council is now free of political influence. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: He didn't say!]] It's good to see you. It is true that, according to § 8 of the new board of trustees, a massive political influence is very likely to be exerted, but now only by the government groups, which can indeed send a number of representatives in this body, namely representatives of the governments, and who, of course, can exercise their influence over them. On the whole, I think it is problematic to occupy a board of trustees mainly with assigned persons, rather than to get people from outside who can perform this control function more crediblely and can't even get into conflicts of loyalty if personal opinion deals with an arbitrary direction. I will therefore vote in favour of Mr Stadler's request. – Nevertheless, I see improvements in the law, so that overall I can agree. It is precisely my view that participation by opposition politicians in advisory councils is a very ambivalent matter. On the one hand, it allows for a certain degree of control, on the other hand, there is always the danger that, through its own dynamics, one can enter such a body into a form of co-responsibility and thus, in some cases, lose critical potential. That is to say, I see here some advantages and disadvantages in the participation of members of the opposition in such bodies. In this respect, I recognise the motivation of the government, since the opposition is to be pushed out, but I do not necessarily see any disadvantages associated with it, as has been said. Otherwise, I judge the Federal Law on the establishment of an Austrian Institute of GesmbH. It has happened to me in a similar way to that of the honourable Member, Mrs Fischenschlager: In my final negative opinion, the Committee's discussions were particularly important. In fact, I could not hear a really convincing argument from the Secretary of State or from the officials involved. The statements on this bill are very lapidar, for example, when it is said that "in the context of the German administration's circumstances, an international professional and economic standard is no longer possible to carry out German courses in accordance with today's international professional and economic standards". It has been questioned several times what these terrible situations are in the federal administration, which do not allow the efficient handling of German courses. No truly satisfactory answer could be given to this. And if that were the case, I would strongly urge that we change these terrible circumstances in the Federal Government instead of actually building up double structures here, because there must, of course, be a corresponding counterpart in the ministry. This will tend to avoid achieving the cost reductions that are envisaged here. If it is really the case that the Federal Government is preventing commercial success, if it is above all the case that income should remain with an institution that is successful, then, I believe, we should make such arrangements instead of justifying double and triple administrations and thus ultimately working against efficiency. On the one hand, I see Parliamentary control as difficult, on the other hand, no compelling necessity, because it would be possible to withdraw at least part of the camera listic within the framework of the general administration and to leave the return flows from these German courses at the institution and thus also to reward commercially successful activities. As I have said, the government must also make more effort to question any serious difficulties in the federal administration and to offer solutions of a general nature instead of fleeing from the administration. And on the other hand, In the specific case, I cannot see this need at all. The job savings announced here in the presentation have already been resolved in the Committee's deliberations. These twelve plan posts, often quoted – we had to find out in the Committee – are no longer a potential for savings at all. In that respect, I must say, the Committee has also been approached with misleading information. That's why I mean: Before continuing this practice with a relatively small department, we should generally devote ourselves to this problem of the efficiency of the federal administration, instead of continuing this route of escape from the administration, the escape from control and the construction of expensive double administrations. We should end this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4666	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4687	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Since I have been referred to here several times as the chairman of the committee and there is a little ambiguity in terms of savings et cetera, I would like to say a few sentences on both legislative proposals. First of all, the Austrian Institute: It is true – and I myself have contributed to this, because I want clarity to prevail over what is decided – that twelve posts are saved by this law. But it is also true that these are not additional savings to the savings, but that they are already inside. This means that 12 posts could be saved for this, which was urgently needed for something else or needed to be saved as well as savings. It is not true, however, that Mr Petrovic and Mr Bauer have drawn the conclusion that this is not a cost-effective one. The Secretary of State has made it very clear in the Committee that, even if the question of officials is left completely aside, expenditure in itself, for several years, is also saving, that even if the question of officials is ignored, it is more economical for the Republic and thus, as she said, it can make work more moving and thus better. That's why I don't understand all the excitement here. That's where the government has had a form of organization. The Secretary of State then says that her department believes that this is a better and more cost-effective way of doing so. – Well then we try in this form. Parliament has every means of control anyway. I do not understand that you then insist on staying with the old man. If you think it will be better, then let us decide this law in this form. Secondly, to the Diplomatic Academy. I just want to say: In the composition of the curatorium et cetera there were no coalition intentions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No!]] The law is in its real and essential parts a creation of those responsible in the Diplomatic Academy itself. And I would like to say thank you very much for breaking the head of the work they are doing in the interests of the Republic and students there, how the organisational framework could be more favourable. I think it would be very useful for a Parliament to pay tribute to such a work by allowing it to do so by law. I would also like to combine this with the thanks to the Diplomatic Academy for what it has done itself – the speakers – in recent years. I think the Diplomatic Academy deserves to be honored in front of this House for what it has done for this country and will be able to make even better with the new law in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4723	Mr Magistrate. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Stadler to speak. – Mr deputies, your speaking time is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4744	Mr President. High house! I would like to predict that we Liberals are committed to the establishment of the Diplomatic Academy, to its functioning and to its task of also thanking the management of this Diplomatic Academy for having made the effort to improve the Academy in terms of its legal basis. Only, Mr Schieder: In these efforts, the Diplomatic Academy has not been strongly supported by the Ministerial bureaucracy. This is the problem that has now come to a draft which does not receive our approval with regard to its organ design. Some others can be discussed, but the central point – and I want to focus on that in view of the limited speaking time I still have – is the following: Of course, like the Liberal Forum – but we are already used to it by this so-called party, by the Social Democrats, we can stand out here and say: We are glad that Parliament has nothing left to control in the Diplomatic Academy. – Ladies and gentlemen, you can do that, which is not an unusual part of this page. But, like the Greens, we are of the opinion that, if the government has political influence within it, we also want Parliament to be able to carry out its political control task there at least in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Col. Freizenschlager – but that is not unusual for him either – was once again not conclusive in his argumentation. If he is in favour of taking out political influence from educational institutions, then he must take a firm stand to see that this diplomatic academy is organized in high school, that is, autonomously, with autonomous Curias, because of a Curia of teachers, a Curia of Middle Education and a Curia of Students. But that's not the case. Here, for the first time, even the Chancellor – in comparison to the previous legal regime still in force – has been given the opportunity to assert his influence on foreign policy, because that is something that is disputed between the two coalition parties. Both are concerned about EU matters. Both of them are about photo-terms in Corfu and wherever you come to photo-terms in foreign policy! Now, in the Federal Chancellor's Office, the influence on the Diplomatic Academy has been secured, contrary to the previous regulations and, as Mrs Petrovic has not mentioned, the first draft that has been sent. Here's a stone and it's clear: "Each party represented in the main committee of the National Council is entitled to send a member to the board of trustees." – After this draft, the Liberal Forum with a seat in the board of trustees would have been. But you're glad when you have to get out, you're glad if only socialists are inside, you're happy if only the popular partyers are inside, because you're finally no longer able to observe another function in this Republic as a blind intestine. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We liberals are of the opinion: If policy is pursued there if the government exercises its political influence, the opposition must also have the opportunity to control it. And behind this standard we do not go back, even if with still such forward-looking arguments we are trying to make the whole ridiculous. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second point I would like to focus on is a suggestion that comes from the Federal Chancellor's Office of Constitution, where it was pointed out during the graduation that this degree of graduation, the "Master of Advanced International Studies", also has to be given a German name, because that corresponds to our Federal Constitutional Standard. Mrs. State Secretary! They have no longer expressed their views on this matter in the Committee. I kindly ask you to express at least today in front of the House what the Federal Chancellor's Office has already presented to you in terms of graduation as necessary in terms of graduation, bearing in mind the current constitutional situation. And we all want to respect this Constitution together, Mrs State Secretary. We want to build you a golden bridge. You have the opportunity to plead for it today. The coalition parties have experience in the rapid drafting of amendments. You will not wait until the opposition also puts an amendment on the table! You are certainly interested today in ensuring that the Constitution is respected in graduation, and that is why you should propose a change here. I come back to the main criticism point, namely the design of the institutions of the Diplomatic Academy, and, on behalf of my group, I am entitled to make the following amendment to the Government's proposal before us: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to support this concern, which corresponds to the original intention of the Federal Government, which corresponds to the current legal situation, which is in line with Parliament's wish for control. In the event of your agreement to amend the Government template within the meaning of our amendment, I can assure you of the support of my group for the entire legislative work. However, we will not, like the Liberals, give our own circumcision, the circumcision of parliamentary control, by consent to the Sanctuary.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4864	The one by the honourable Member Mag. Stadler's amendment is sufficiently supported, it is included in the negotiations. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e4890	Mr President. High house! ==References== The National Council here unanimously created the legal basis for the new building of the Austrian Cultural Institute in New York. This was a very encouraging sign of the common interests in a successful foreign policy of Austria. The projects for the restructuring of language courses abroad on the one hand and the Diplomatic Academy on the other have been developed and prepared with the same care: to create more professionalism and more efficiency. It would therefore only be logical if you could find the same parliamentary consensus. Of course, the form of the respective breakdown has been chosen in such a way that the financial contribution of the Federal Government becomes clearly calculable and possible and, secondly, represents the lowest possible budgetary burden in the long term. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] A clearly defined annual grant negotiated with the Minister of Finance also allows us to state clearly what is worth the instrument of language courses. [[Further call of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the exclusion has a positive impact on the state of employment of the federal government. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I don't understand!]] The work of the organization – resolution, delivery of language courses or the Diplomatic Academy – was done by the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The breakdowns release capacity, which can now be used for conceptual activities instead of administrative operations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Let me talk to you, please. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The courses are to be carried out by trained and qualified staff both domestically and abroad. The Diplomatic Academy can also build a serious scientific component. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Ms. State Secretary! Why don't you fill everything out?]] I can't tell you that right now. Please listen to me! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The liberals can't listen!]] I would like to address the question of plan posts. No additional plan items are created – in part, this has been said here – but additional jobs are created, at least, but not by increased subsidies from the federal government, but by a declining budget burden in the medium term. These jobs, Mr Stadler, are for young graduates in the field of mental science, for which the job situation is precarious. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You want to save! You said you wanted to save!]] In fact, the Institutes GmbH can do something that the federal government has not been able to do – at least you should know –: to employ young Austrian academics as a language teacher abroad. This was not, or hardly possible, due to the planning site limitation – even if demand was appropriate. The GmbH can now, if it is economically acceptable, also employ Austrian language teachers. There is also no additional bureaucracy, as was partly said here. I really must be surprised, Mr Bauer, that you are talking about additional bureaucracy in the event of exclusions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] There is less bureaucracy, especially in the case of economic management. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This means that the cultural institutions - and I would like to stress this here - are given more room to consider their actual original tasks; if you know what cultural institutions are doing. They take care of theatre performances, concerts, joint exhibitions, seminars, symposia, poet lectures – it's a huge wealth of things. The German courses showed only a small proportion. So I would like to take this out again. I'm just going to the Diplomatic Academy for a short time, and I'm dealing with two questions. First of all, the question of the "master". I have no longer answered the question in the Committee because the Committee was very busy, but I very much had a reply to it and can now tell you that it was an express wish of the Federal Ministry of Science and Research to avoid any possible confusion with our title. That's why this English title was called. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Let’s talk about the Constitution!]] This has nothing to do with the Constitution at all. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I can tell you: These are international courses, and it is of course good if a high Austrian institute can offer an international title, which is then generally competitive. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Last point – very briefly – on the composition of the board of trustees: It is the management and control body of the future Academy, which is solely responsible for relevant decisions concerning the financial conduct and for the public tendering and preparation of tripartite proposals for the position of the Director and his alternate. In fact, an essential point of dissemination is the creation of an efficient leadership structure to adapt as flexible as possible to new requirements for only subject-related and operational criteria, in order to increase – and I have already said this at the outset – the attractiveness and competitiveness of the institution. A direct opportunity for political parties to participate in the implementation of the law would not least contradict and is not, for example, – perhaps have She did not know this – provided for in the Law on the Administrative Academy of the Federal Government. In addition, I would like to say that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is politically responsible for the implementation of the Academy Law and therefore, of course, the democratic control of Parliament is guaranteed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5047	Mr Dkfm. Bauer has spoken a second time. – Deputies! The rest of the speaking time is exactly one minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5068	As regards the repeated claims relating to bureaucracy and costs, one of the Court's quotes is as follows: "With regard to costs, it must be noted that the information contained in this draft does not comply with the directives or the requirements of the Federal Budget Act." [[Calls.]] "In particular, there are no grounds to believe that after the first four years of operation, a tendency to reduce the annual budget allocation needs is expected. In the Court's view, rather, the notes contained in the explanatory notes show that there is a fear that there will be an opposite trend. For example, the alleged saving of 12 planned posts in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs is opposed to the intended employment of at least 14 employees, which means an extension and no saving." At last take note of this and not only read it unobtrusively down what is written down to you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5104	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Is one of the rapporteurs asking for a conclusion? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the votes which will be carried out separately between the two Committees. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats. I shall first vote on the draft law concerning Austria's Institute Act and the title and entry into 23 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This draft was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – I can also note the majority acceptance here. We now proceed to the vote on the draft Law on Diplomatic Academy Law 1996 and the title and entry into 63 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Stadler and comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stadler and comrades submitted an amendment concerning § 8. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application did not receive any consent. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 8 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. § 8 as amended by the Committee's report is accepted by a majority. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask the honourable Members, who are in favour of the Committee's report, to have a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (9dE Vr 13555/95, Hv 7930/95) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider (52 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on two requests from the International District Court (3U 199/95) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider(53 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5220	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters (52 of the Supplements) and of two requests from the International District Court (53 of Supplements), each for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Haider. The rapporteur on both points is Mr Grossruck. I would ask him to open the debate with his report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5241	I shall return the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court for Criminal Matters for approval of the official persecution of the honourable Member to the National Council Dr Jörg Haider. In the course of its deliberations, the Committee has made the following statement on its decision-making practice: "In the case of the private acquittals of §§ 111 (absolute renunciation), 113 (punishment of a criminal offence already committed), 115 (injury) and 152 (indemnity) StGB, the extraditional desire of the courts is agreed by the Immunity Committee. The Immunity Committee will hold a general debate before the 30th century. June 1998 to analyse the experiences gained and to shape its practice accordingly." The Immunity Committee, as a result of its deliberations, proposes that the National Council: 1. In response to the request of the State Court of Criminal Matters in Vienna of 17 November, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No. January 1996, 9dE VR 13555/95, Hv 7930/95, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haiderwill be referred to in Article 57. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the parliament's political activity as National Councillor Dr Jörg Haiderbe. 2. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haiderwill be approved. I also report on 53 of the additions to the Stenographical Protocols, namely two requests from the International District Court for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Dr Jörg Haider. In the course of its deliberations, the Committee adopted the following conclusions by a large majority: "The difference between the two requests lies in the basis of the prosecution, namely in the first case the private contribution, in the second case the petition of the prosecutor, which was made responsible for the persecution on the basis of an authorisation of the private prosecutor. The additional provision of § 117 StGB concerns only the question of a conditions of persecution without changing the facts underlying the procedure. On the basis of the term ‘punitive action’ in Article 57(1). 3 B-VG states that the Immunities Committee has to decide on extradition for a particular subject, but not on a specific legal qualification. Accordingly, it is not important for the Immunities Committee whether the basis of the criminal proceedings is a private contribution or the authorisation of the injured person in his rights, on the basis of which the public prosecutor enters under § 117 StGB." The Immunity Committee, as a result of its deliberations, proposes that the National Council: 1. ==References====External links==* Official website January 1996, 3 U 199/95, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haiderwird within the meaning of Article 57 paragraph. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the alleged criminal act and the parliament's political activity to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haiderbe. 2. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haiderwill be approved. I would ask the chairman to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5332	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. For this debate, it was decided that a maximum of three speakers per group would speak, with the first speaker of each group having a speaking time of 20 minutes and all other speakers having a speaking time of 10 minutes each. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I must interrupt your debate at 6.30 p.m. in order to raise the urgent question. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5363	Mr President. High house! As the rapporteur has already said, two persecuting requests from two courts, each directed against the clubman of the liberals, Dr. Haider, are today the subject of the debate. This has changed the immunity practice of recent years by 180 degrees – and that is why, in complete abandonment of the previous use, there is a debate on immunity issues here in the House. In addition, Mr Kostelka has had the "friendliness" to tell us in public what this debate is all about. It was always conjured by the small citizen, the "evil" freeman Dr. Haider is persecuted, diffamated. It has always been said of slander, and the ladies and gentlemen obviously do not know what a slander is. This is a legal term, which is a particular offence which is quite different from the subject at issue here. [[Abg. May. Steindl: There are also other offences, § 111!]] – No, read the criminal code! In there is the fact that the slander is present. This does not have to do with § 111 the least, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Steindl! The problem is that you don't understand things. That's the difficulty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] There's the next one from the coalition-free broom chamber! Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party do not understand the matter because they have not dealt with matter. That is why the discussion with them is so difficult. It was also significant that the SPÖ made an announcement about its Klubobmann Kostelka and the ÖVP was eager, as it had now heard for the black coalition-free broom chamber, called the coalition-free space, to make the appropriate applications against Dr. Haider immediately. That's what it looks like! Klubobmann Kostelka has stated to the public, in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" that because of Dr. Haider and with reference to Dr. Haider, a change in extradition practice is now necessary. He has literally said that the reason for this extraordinary step would be, above all, a complaint by Minister of the Interior Caspar One against Jörg Haider. That's the reason. Caspar von One is the "small" citizen who is persecuted by "mighty" federal politician Dr. Haider, ladies and gentlemen; the "small" citizen Caspar of One who enjoys parliamentary immunity himself! He is still in the Chamber of Deputies and is a member of the government. One of the most powerful ministers of this country, the "small" citizen Caspar of One, is persecuted by Dr. Haider, and that is why one has to lift the immunity of Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The "poor" victim Haider!]] The second case is similar. A powerful media sar has made it his task – according to his own definition – to fight Dr. Haider wherever he can to attack Dr. Haider wherever he can. Therefore, there are also a large number of processes between the magazine "NEWS" and the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The "poor" Dr. Haider, the "poor" victim!]] No, Mr Maitz, we do not give birth to ourselves as a poor victim, we only make it clear what hypocritical argument you are using to change the immunity practice of this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are not the small citizens, that is not the folk school director you have always quoted, who has not complained to this day, neither civil law nor criminal law! That's not the point. It is about a powerful media sar who has risen to the main agitator against the liberals in the media sector. I think he's doing a good deal with it, too. He admits that in foreign newspapers. A cover image – not the nude of Chancellor Vranitzky, that blows them off again; that's a taste question, I don't like it – by Dr. Haider increases the number of editions. [[Call to the liberals: He's too thick!]] Mr Fellner himself admitted that. This is the second Causa that is in question and is the reason for an extradition request. In the Causa One – Haider, however, it is particularly pious that even now one is already using the prosecutor's office. It is the case for the first time in the case of a crime according to § 111, ill-repudiation that one uses the prosecutor's office, in order to take action against Dr. Haider. This has not yet been done. I checked all the §-111 cases of the past 15 years, and it was not a single one... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You've seen a lot of shark traps!]] No, it was a bunch of Michael-Graff cases, among them, Mr. Khol! And some of you were among them, too. Once you're in opposition here, you'll be sad to remember the words we're writing to you in the main book today. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Because at the time when the ÖVP was in opposition, most of the extraditional desires were directed against representatives of the Austrian People's Party, in particular against Dr. Michael Graff, who at the time had a very accentuated opposition policy. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The decisive thing is that the methods and means of state power, in the case even of the prosecutor, are being used in a private case of the Minister of the Interior against an opposition politician. That is the decisive! The Liberal Forum has announced that if that is the case, it will be against such extradition desire. I am looking at what is to be kept from the announcements of the Liberal Forum today. If you still take your own policy quite seriously, then today you will no longer be able to go on the glue to this Army of the Great Coalition, because for the first time the prosecutor is being used to bring a private history of the Minister of the Interior to the Kadi to stand an example of an opposition politician through political arbitrariness – I call it a political arbitrariness reminiscent of the dissident persecution in the Eastern Bloc states. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening today is nothing but parliamentary special justice – brackets on: Peter Kostelka, to which this is obviously a special concern; as you know, he feels particularly quickly when socialist government members are at the centre of oppositional criticism; clamp closed. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The equality with the citizens hurts you!]] – No, not the citizen Caspar One hurts me here. It also does me what Peter Kostelka represents in politics, not hurt because it is not really sharp, but the hypocrisy you represent in front of the public hurts me. She's unbearable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's where you have to cry for pain!]] They are about parliamentary special justice, a special criminal law against Dr. Haider, with which you seem to have an ancient personal problem. Probably, dear Jörg, this goes back to the times when you probably took him away from the better desk in the front room of Professor Winkler. I don't know why, but Peter Kostelka has been suffering for years – I like to admit this with each of his words here – under the existence of opposition politician Jörg Haider, who is much more successful – than he does. Therefore, special justice is now being exercised, special justice with the assistance of the public prosecutor, special justice, using the State's means of violence to silence an opposition politician! This is nothing other than dissident treatment, as it could not have happened in the eastern block. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The hatred caused by Dr. Haider in socialist ranks, the feelings of hatred become clear when one is already hiding for questions – one has to face that – which is what the personal protection of Dr. Jörg Haider, who receives a threat letter after another, costs the state. If one sends these threat letters to the Minister of the Interior, after several interventions he is finally ready to provide for personal protection. And then a member of the Socialists comes and asks: What does this protection cost? Why? The man is free from birds, but it is free to release them – according to Ilse Mertel: That would be a possibility! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] You have a humour, ladies and gentlemen! That some laugh there doesn't surprise me. When it comes to the opposition, not even the personal protection of a politician who has become uncomfortable for you in this country is worth the corresponding effort. That's the summit! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm not surprised at the Austrian People's Party in the coalitionary broom chamber. They are glad that they are allowed to sit in the coalitionary broom chamber. But that SPÖ delegates were able to ask themselves what the cost of guarding a politician is incredible, that is incredible – while at the same time guarding the Minister of the Interior when he goes to the restaurant in the evening to eat there with some obscene people! Ladies and gentlemen! That's how it looks! The opposition politician is free-wild, while the government is using the state power to make the opposition become a free-wild. The point of the summit is that one still has a police officer who is legally obliged if he is directly involved in a criminal act...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5530	Deputies! One more sentence, then I have to interrupt you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5545	Mr President. I am going to keep this sentence for later, because this matter of persecuting a single police officer is too important to me to let it be torn by a green debate. This police officer has a right to be treated properly in that state if he does what he is obliged to do by law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5575	I am now interrupting the debate on this item on the agenda. Mr Stadler! You have an open speaking time of 9 minutes available. Request for urgent procedure Dr. Petrovic, Member of Parliament, Friends of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Art on savings measures at universities and students (268/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5608	We are now going into the debate on urgent Question 268/J, which Mrs Petrovic has addressed to the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Art concerning savings measures at universities and students. In the meantime, the request has been distributed in the house so that a reading is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5772	I now give the floor to this urgent question by Mrs Dr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5793	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have been in Austria for years now, taking note of not only I but, as I believe, many of us with great concern, namely the increase in a somewhat anti-education and cultural climate, which can be seen in the attempt to polarize. Again and again it says: Students live at the expense of the general public! It gives the impression that students are dealing with non-students and non-students who lead a sunny life, while others have to pursue a hard bread job. This climate of polarization poses a great danger to a country, especially a country which claims to be a high level of education, with high demands on science and culture, and which must be a country with high quality standards and a correspondingly high level of education in terms of economics. This happened already in the time of the Hainburger Au, when it was tried to bring workers and students against each other; and all attempts to contribute to social cohesion were repeatedly countercared by opposing tendencies. It is you, Mr Federal Minister, who have never contributed to such trends in the past. On the contrary: We have all remembered you as someone who is trying to act in the sense of the climate of openness, tolerance and social cohesion. I find it all the more sad and sad that a load package is now to be carried out in your area of business, just as no other group in society can be achieved in a similar form. There are massive pressures from the savings package both in the area of students and in particular in the field of secondary education and universities as a whole. As has been said, no other population group is required. For students, this burden is, for example, a dramatic restriction on family allowances, which will affect 95 percent of students. This means more than 20,000 s less per family with students per year. In addition, there is a loss of the associated services, i.e. a loss of other transfers: The removal of free travel and therefore a restriction on student mobility. In the future, this will be followed by the buying-in of retirement periods which will go into the hundreds of thousands of schilling for those affected, especially for women who have only recently been able to reach the equal treatment package as a compromise after long negotiations. For women, this means that they are seeking higher qualifications and that the equal treatment package has been removed by cold means. A woman who is in training longer than 171⁄2 years of age can no longer benefit from the statutory retirement age according to the equal treatment package. These are massive discrimination and discrimination among the discriminated against! New hierarchies are also introduced, e.g. in the field of secondary university construction, which is affected by dramatic salary losses, at least from about 14 percent, usually, especially in the mass fields, from more than 33 percent to 40 percent. This population group is supposed to lose more than a third of its income! And the way in which it is done is really only more than scandalous! ==References== In February, this draft law was passed to the university with a term of opinion up to 4/5. ==References== Three or four days of the week have remained to say that a population group should lose more than one third of its income! They have gone into the media on the part of the Federal Government and have spoken of savings among other groups, of zero-one rounds in the civil service, of raising railway pensions by only 1 or 2 percentage points. They have presented this to the public as a major savings measure and are famous for it. However, this group accounts for 30 and 40 percent of income with a growing burden. You know as well as I do, Federal Minister, that the burdens of universities – and I really mean universities, students, medium-sized buildings, also professorship – have risen steadily. I say: Thanks be to God they have partly risen, because thanks to God the Austrian universities were largely open. Thank God, however, has been known in the past as a principle of free access to higher education and has also enabled students from socially less rosy shifts to study quite satisfactorily. There was still much to improve, because the scholarships were certainly not cost-effective, and there were still strong preferences from students from better-earning shifts with well-paid parents. There were still discriminations, but instead of fighting these discriminations, you are now causing massive deterioration for all. This is an answer that can only be pointed out in sharpest terms. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not a question of intelligent savings, you have not even tried to accept the offer of universities to make their own contribution in the context of necessary savings measures. The universities were ready to save, and no one assumes that it would not be possible to save even at the universities. We all know that, as a result of the one-year budgeting, there is often almost a pressure to spend higher expenditure in November or December when money is left. It is true that books for libraries will then be bought on a case-by-case basis. It is certainly also nice to have money for it, but in this area it would be possible to save to a certain extent. And the universities offered you that. They would have reached out to the Federal Government. They were willing, in their own autonomy, which on other occasions is repeatedly conjured to make these savings and to examine for themselves where savings measures are possible. We would have been able to determine, of course, where savings are possible at universities – in other words, students, medium-sized, professors and professors. We would have accepted this. But against this approach almost an attack command and against this scrapping action, as you carry out it in a unilateral way, which I consider to be an attack on the education system in Austria, we will do massively and fully support the protests of students and middle-class construction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are absolutely impossible requirements. It is no longer possible for most studies to study at the minimum study time. Some of the events are not offered at all. Additional obstacles were introduced due to a lack of staff and material resources of the universities. Pro-seminars and similar events have been introduced so that the operation can be handled at all. You know as well as I do that it has become simple and simply impossible in most areas of study to complete one semester per study period over the minimum duration, especially where there are large numbers of students and students. They therefore impose financial sanctions on the failure to achieve an objective which has become absolutely unattainable. They ask the people concerned to do something impossible. In other words, you are not taking a sparing measure, but a fiscal measure, which leads to a real scrapping of the people concerned and, unfortunately, to the strengthening of this anti-educational trend outlined by me at the outset – what do we need it for? What do they need to study for? – and this very, very negative and absolutely against the future of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! However, they do not only introduce the most massive strains at all in the hope that these groups, the students and the university middle-level building have too little sympathy in the population and that the media and the large majority of the population will not participate in the protests. They do not only impose impossible demands and requirements that they cannot meet. Rather, they do something I would never have expected of a Social Democratic Minister of Science and of a Social Democratic majority: They introduce completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible new hierarchies for me. In the future, not only will there be a differentiation between professors, professors, middle-level construction and students, but the university will be divided into even more classes or categories and more financial differences will be created. In the future, the hierarchy is: Professor, assistant with habilitation – that is, lecturer, lecturer – then those who have acquired a doctorate and are assistants, and finally those who have "only" – under quotation marks – the magisterium, otherwise sufficient for all possible state qualifications, for ministerial offices and highest state dignity by far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] That's what we're asking. In this case, the Magisterium appears to be a lesser qualification. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Cap could be a minister! He's got up to his 36. Your age is studying!]] There is also a differentiation between internal and external university teachers. And those who "only" – under quotation marks – have the magisterium and are employed internally at the university are the poorest in this hierarchy, because they can no longer conduct teaching assignments independently and they are affected by the full hardness of financial sanctions; and, although we know that in many fields of study there are high numbers of students, for example at the University of Economics, at lawyers or at the Faculty of Medicine, they do not even go without study assistants, without persons who are still in training or who are still working on their own doctorate. These persons form the backbone. They have become essential for science in Austria. It is not only incomprehensible and short-sighted that we are dealing with these people with a completely incomprehensible financial penalty, I consider it rather as a course of action lacking in their brutality of the same. This has never happened in Austria! I don't know with what justification They are willing to contribute to such a third attack on universities and on the education system as a whole! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: She's right!]] This also means that the same benefits are awarded differently. They know that at universities people with different levels of training or different careers offer and conduct the same type of course. And it is not to be seen why an assistant or an assistant with a doctorate should receive more at once for the same work as her colleague or colleague, who or the "only" – under quotation marks – has the magisterium and perhaps is even better qualified and better accepted by the students. The opinion of the students is apparently no longer counted here at all. It is rather – and for me this is the incomprehensible – that there is a return to titles and formal qualifications on the part of the Socialist Group, which ultimately do not say anything about educational qualities, about the needs for universities and the needs of the education system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We from the Greens have seen a need for reform, especially in the mass fields of study, but not in the direction in which it is now going: Removal, reduction, withdrawal of courses, even larger units. What are you trying to do? We already have exercises with 200 to 300 people! This is already at the limit of the future, if not above! What we needed, especially at these faculties, would be small events, events in which personal contact between representatives of the middle building and students and intensive care is possible. It would also be the key to shortening student time by taking care of the individual students or the individual students and also asking where there may be problems of understanding instead of becoming ever larger, anonymous events. After all, Minister of State, this kind of savings is expensive! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the previous election campaign, the Chancellor had his posters printed personally, that our youth was the greatest capital and that it deserved the best possible training. Obviously, this Federal Government believes that the cheapest training, the withdrawal of courses and the deletion of offers is the best possible training. We don't believe this! We are in favour of structural reforms, but this should have meant more courses, smaller units and probably more employees, especially in these fields of study. It should not be so that a few courses monopolize for themselves. We would have wanted as many employees as possible at the universities, as wide an offer as possible and, as I said, personal assistance and intensive care. All of this seems to be countercaring with this load package, the past seems to be a thing of the past. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, the impression is that people were at work with the current load designs, who have no idea of what is happening at the universities at all. Neither at the universities that are facing a very high number of students today, such as the Economic University, where an enormous number of students are being cared for per assistant – with increasing tendency – nor in those fields of study, which are also important for the cultural and educational climate in which there are very small numbers of students. Here this draft testifies to the fact that those who have written it seem to have no idea of reality in your place of business. To demand that remunerated courses or paid courses of 15 or at least ten participants be attended is simply and simply white dissatisfaction! There are events that need to be small, such as in the context of medical training; Events that are directly connected to the hospital bed for advanced students with exercises. Do you want a sick person to be examined in a row of 20, 30 or more students? – That is not reasonable for both sides! Do you really want quality to fall here, or should we not be glad that there is this training in practice and that it is possible to work in small groups and offer a practical, patient-oriented training? Similarly, there are fields of study that do not include so many students, such as some scientific subjects, such as astronomy. Here you will never come to these numbers of participants at events. Do you want to get rid of these compartments simply by cold means with a savings package, or what is such a design?- Oh, my God! He goes beyond reality, both the reality of the great faculties and that of the very small disciplines. It is characterized by a pseudofiscal goal and will ultimately cost us all. Another point that gives us special thought is the latent anti-feminism of women, which inhabits this draft. Because of the massive burden on families with studyable children, it is likely that these considerations will come up again, which we have hoped to be part of the past. These considerations are as follows: Well, who's worth studying for? Maybe for the son, not for the daughter, because she's getting married anyway! – These are thoughts that will soon be up-to-date when the burden per student will be 30 000 S and more per year. This means, Mr Federal Minister, that for a family with two children studying, an additional burden of more than 60,000 S to 70,000 S. Do you really believe that in the Austrian average income – I do not think of absolute social cases, since I am thinking of the middle class – such burdens are still feasible? We don't believe this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other hand, I fear that there will be a place here – i.e.: I know, I fear not only – which really go in a completely wrong direction, namely towards the University of Elite, towards education only for those who can afford it or whose parents can afford it. I know specifically from an Austrian university that there has already been something in the middle of the building to make up for the dramatic salary loss of 70 000 S to 100 000 S per person: Now, certain events, which will no longer be available in the public offer because of the savings package, are offered privately. Now university teachers, medium-sized building representatives and representatives of such private teaching providers are joining forces, and then such an event costs 1 000 S per student. This particular case already exists at the University of Salzburg, and I am convinced not only there but also at other universities. What you actually tried to push back – private paucer courses, extra-university offers, expensive offers that are only open to a small elite – you will be able to introduce this package again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This cannot be acceptable to a social-democratic group, to a Minister for Social-Democrat Science. This is an objective which is always openly represented by the ultraconservative side. Professionally oriented, short trainings for the masses, purely professionally oriented, just not going beyond, just not very academically, just not stimulating to further thought, but very much only what one needs for the job, to acquire bread; the further education, the higher education only for those who can afford it. This is the beginning of an elite formation, which I hope will not take place in Austria and which is not to be tolerated by a social-democratic group in particular. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, this latent anti-female concerns not only the area of students or the considerations for whom it is worth studying, but also, of course, the medium-sized sector, namely the introduction of a genuinely unintelligent and in this form of false occupation stop in the public service, which does not differ according to present-day deficits, according to existing overloads and to other areas in which perhaps really can be saved. As a result of this unintelligent non-retirement after coincidences, when someone goes into retirement, if someone dies or gets sick, more women and women's interests are found and affected. It is not even possible to re-occupy posts which are being cancelled under maternity protection and care regulations. Do you know what that means? – This has led to the fact that even now university institutes, especially those institutes that have progressed with good examples, which have increased women, are considering whether they can continue to do so in the future. Most of these institutions say that we no longer trust this, because if it really happens that perhaps two or three women go in maternity or care at the same time, then the university business could collapse at such an institution. That is why this will also lead to a greater recruitment of men and thus the goal of the equal treatment package, the joint representation also at the universities, once again, and will not be achieved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This package of savings is, as has been said, totally unbalanced socially. It creates new hierarchies, hierarchies based on formal qualifications and not on reality. This savings package is anti-female – and it is particularly incomprehensible that you, Mr. Federal Minister, where teaching and research are actually happening – at the universities – with this draconian burden package, that you really meet students and representatives of medium-sized building companies with hard economic sanctions, while at the same time the administrative equipment is blown up: both in your home, as regards the establishment of new group leaders, as well as at universities. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The UOG 1993 has led to an increase in the number of new plantations in which purely administrative agents are fulfilled. A total of 3 A-, 5 B- and 4 C-posts were created at the University of Klagenfurt, at the BOKU Vienna a total of 5 A-posts, 6 B- and 1 C-posts, as well as at the University of Linz, Leoben, at TU Graz, and so on. This is a huge bloating of the administrative apparatus while at the same time weakening research and teaching. This is really a complete misguidedness of resources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This money is not going directly into research and teaching, so where we would need it and where you want to save in about 1 billion, but this billion is wasted in additional administrative expenditure. There would have been a real opportunity to save something in the autonomous field of higher education. However, they have not taken this opportunity. I very much hope that today you will declare your willingness to reintegrate this package again. I also hope that the protests will not fail. For one thing I also say towards gallery and toward media as well as all who are trying to prevent this package in this area: If there is no outside pressure, then the opposition in this house alone will not succeed in averting this savings package. You also heard it in the TV debate: It is counted and measured how many go on the road. And if – under quotations – there are only a few hundred, then this protest will be swept away. I therefore ask the students from here: Go on the road! Support the protests! Join the protests! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I call on the middle of the building to behave in solidarity. Those who get stronger and so on, but also those who are less affected, lose the "only" – under quotes – 14 percent, I ask: Show solidarity, put all the teaching orders back, because then this package has to be reintegrated again, then the business at the universities is standing, and this is the only chance that this package will be changed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to mention a person who has also addressed himself to the public. This is a university student in art history, Mrs. Annette Freytag, who, in a comment in the "standard", has put the situation of the students to the point from the point of view of an excellent student with an average grade of 1.1. This student addresses you, Mr. Federal Minister, and writes: Minister Scholten! You can't even study art history – and that's true for many other fields of study – mathematically in ten semesters. Carrying out your savings measures You have a very brutal sorting of students who do not have paying parents because you also take us any way of self-retaining with our expertise. In other places, it also says: I therefore call on you to first create opportunities at the universities to study in ten semesters before you want to starve the students. Reform the curriculum instead of introducing a six-semester "Studium light" with which you can't apply for a European university or museum post. I call on you to be concerned that we will not be on the road tomorrow with excellent performance. Forget You don't: Whenever you have presented ideas about open cultural policy, social commitment and responsible environmental and women's policies in recent years, you have been supported in a sustainable way by the students who now base you and push you into blackwork. Federal Minister! At least that was your clientele. These are your allies. These are those – the progressive part of Austrian society – who have always fought against discrimination, against xenophobia of foreigners, against polarization in society, against a climate of cultural stormy. It is precisely this group that is being presented with such a bitter account for its always open attitude, for its willingness to initiate and participate in social change processes, which it has not deserved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! I ask you from here: Do the same in order to quickly link up the burden package for students, for universities, for medium-sized buildings and to start new negotiations with those concerned as soon as possible – namely democratic renegotiations. You will see that there is a willingness to save, but not in the area of draconic financial sanctions, which will ultimately ruin education policy and those involved in this education policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5956	The Federal Minister for Science, Research and Art has now been reported to answer the question in question.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e5978	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before addressing the individual questions, let me make a few fundamental comments. I think that in a difficult situation, in a parliamentary debate in the context of an urgent question, there is no doubt that there is room and also legitimacy for a very free dealing with realities. However, I believe, in view of the seriousness of the situation, that the obligation to the truth should be given to a somewhat more precise extent. I would just like to mention a few points here. If it has been said that 95 percent of the students are affected by the family allowance package, you need to know that not even 50 percent of students receive family allowances. It was said that 33 to 40 percent of the income loss for the assistants occurred. I only got a calculation from the particularly concerned economic university in the afternoon that this loss of income for someone with a starting content and a relatively high number of teaching assignments – a case where a lot comes together – is 11 percent. And this without any use of offered coatings. So 11 percent are against this claim 33 to 40 percent. There are also figures such as 70 000 S to 100 000 S of a number of 41 000 S. It is completely wrong to say that universities would not have or would not have had autonomous spaces here. On the contrary: It has been offered re-transmission possibilities, which literally go to the border of what is permitted by budgetary law, and far beyond what has so far existed in autonomous design possibilities. It is also wrong to say that we are now introducing uneven rates of tuition. The main problem we have, apart from the need to participate in a consolidation package, is that, at present, the teaching rates are incredibly unfairly distributed. I assume that you also know that for one and the same teaching activity it has nothing to do with the quality of the event, whether someone has received a rehabilitated or a nonrehabilitated teaching assignment – and that is currently in a ratio of 1 : 4. That is, the claim that this novelle introduces uneven payment for the same performance is simply false – compared to what is currently in place. It was just one of the main reasons for this measure – apart from the need for consolidation, I am not talking about this point – to get away from the current incredibly unfair system. You have not rightly appealed to those who are less or perhaps not affected by your call. In fact, it is a large number less or not affected, namely those who have experienced worse treatment in the previous system, which have been worse. However, they try to give the impression that an unjust system would, so to speak, be replaced by a righteous one. It is true, rather, that the present inexplicable and unjust. I believe that, despite the need to consolidate the budget, which is undoubtedly an unpleasant exercise, we can take a structural step in the right direction. It is also not true that teaching contracts are deleted as a result of these measures. The opposite is true: Our aim throughout the negotiations was to reach an agreement that would make the contribution to consolidation possible without the need to withdraw teaching contracts, such as the provision of teaching courses. It is therefore the wrong way to assume that the number of courses has to be reduced. They also call very wrong group sizes. It is a draft law in the final stage of preparation – it will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers for decision-making; it is also accessible – in which quite different group sizes than those mentioned by you are included; but then I come to speak in detail in my reply to the question. For example, an absurd and untrue point is your finding with regard to the karences. It is quite an exception to what was not welcomed by me – and I admit that – and to universities a special stop on admission, because it was expressly entered in the Council of Ministers' decision that the post-retirement of car-retirement posts is not affected by this stop-up. This was done by us. Trusting to say here that this is a measure, particularly in the field of carers' posts, is incredible – if I do not have any other presumptions. It's just untrue! It is also quite absurd to assume – you will be able to check this yourself if the establishment plan for 1996 and for 1997 is presented – that the administration will increase in the ministry. We will, of course, be in the central office, say in the ministry, unlike in the universities – we are trying to make as much of the necessary personnel savings as possible in such a way that the universities are not affected – to realize the necessary personnel decline – without any means of doing so. There will be fewer staff in the ministry within the framework of this establishment plan – as already in 1995. It is also untrue to say that the research funds are now going back. It's exactly the opposite! They will then see in the budget – which is no longer a secret, but it has already been mentioned more often – that the funds available for research funding, especially for the FWF, for the fund for the promotion of scientific research, have increased by even around 10 percent. That is a remarkable fact in times like this. I think that in view of the genuine seriousness of the situation, it is a matter of reversing the sign as well. I also believe that it is the wrong way today to speculate precisely on what we are trying to avoid in argumentation in a negative form – or in a rhetorical way – both for the middle and for the students. That's what I call speculating with the arguments: They negate them each, but then bring them in. I think it is very necessary – I have always thought and will continue to do so – that we do not hold this debate by serving, so to speak, slightly inflammable prejudices. Whether we hate them or deny them, the name brings them to the tapet. I have not participated in this discussion and will not do so in the future. I am firmly convinced that this does not mean that the students, as well as the assistants, are being treated unjustly, and that this discussion and the attempt to put this into play by negation will also change. Of course, the budget should provide the best possible training for students. This was also our goal: that the teaching contracts in their number do not go back to the fact that the teaching offer cannot be reduced, that the whole can be safeguarded unhindered and fully budgeted. It is also true that, if you want it, strategicly important resources for equipment, not only have not been withdrawn, but have even been increased, for investments in the university sector. It is also true that we have budgeted for the start-up of the new premises, which were of great concern. On the other hand, it is not right to pretend as if the scholarships – that sounded like it; so in the meantime one not only reads such things between the lines, but also hears them between the words – only a few very poor ones. Around 40 percent of students receive family allowances, less than half of them. I do not claim that this is not a serious situation. Yet, the truth must remain nominal. So, as I said, Around 40 percent of students receive family allowances. In other words, 60 percent of students are not at all affected by this measure, but can theoretically not be affected by it – apart from the fact that it is not Question of my place of business, but that of the family ministry, but I'd like to give the information. – Of the approximately 40 percent of family aid beneficiaries, about one third receive funding. That is to say, we are talking about a third of the theoretical stakeholders who are compensated for a large part of the measures referred to by the Studienförderungsgesetz, namely scholarships. To do so – which would be socially cynical, but I do not want to go into it now – is to pretend that the Studienförderungsgesetz would cover a very small group of the poorest, is a false representation of the facts. True is: It is one third of the theoretically affected by these measures! Again – I say that again and again: In my argument, I am not going to reduce the seriousness and the effects of these measures, but I would just like to stress them by dealing with this subject in a serious way. I can now come to the answer to the individual questions: Question No 1 concerns the scope of autonomy already mentioned. It is not true that we have conjured the autonomy of the universities, as we have been told in the question, but we have provided for the legal conditions of this autonomy. But there is one point – apart from the natural involvement of universities in our legal system; this also applies to budgetary law – in which I would like to propose and become an absolute barrier, because I consider this to be justified: If, in a university, the group dynamics of opinion-building result that the funds provided by the taxpayer or by the budget or this House and by all those involved in this decision are deducted from investments in order to raise charges, I think this is wrong. That is to say, the separation between the expenditure on property and, in particular, investment loans and the staff budget is not only a restriction of autonomy, as if they could not be better, but an absolutely right measure to ensure and guarantee the funds for future equipment or for future investments. Moreover, the universities have been offered much more re-transmission opportunities within the framework of the staff budget; I have previously mentioned the number which results without re-transmission. With repainting, the income loss of the assistants is reduced by around a third again, i.e. by about a third of the 11 percent again. This is still a lot, still a serious problem, still something about which one does not follow the motto: It's not that bad! It's supposed to go over. Only: These numbers, which are serious enough, then to link with 40, 50, 60 percent wrong, I think is an unsavory process. Question No 2 concerns assessment. It was the same for all budget accompanying laws. The fact that a longer discussion would be desirable in itself is undisputed. However, we are faced with the need to introduce the budget accompanying legislation in parallel with the Federal budget here in the House, and we therefore had to comply with this measure, which is also applicable to all other ministries. Now for the multiple load: It is certainly true that public officials who are paid out of the budget make a special contribution to fiscal consolidation. In principle, they are all twofold affected. In addition, group-specific measures – not least in the teacher sector, where the mass will have an impact on the overtime rate – are very likely to exist in different professional groups, ensuring a parity, a balance also on the measures we had to take. I try – I repeat – not to play down the measures, but it is not that there has been, as it were, a unique situation, which does not lead to similar effects in comparable professional groups. I would like to read Question No 4, because it concerns exactly what I said earlier: "What professional groups, apart from academic medium-sized projects, are known to you, which through the savings package have to take a earnings rate of between 20 and 40 percent?" – Unkindly said: none – not even these! Question No 5 concerns the hierarchies you have referred to. The fact is that at present the Hierarchies are unfounded, partly related to the individual institutions and their history, depending on the rates on which one receives the teaching work. I think that's wrong! What we have introduced – and you have correctly described this – is a bill of teaching, in fact, according to habilitated and non-habilitated, because, as you probably know, it is in the draft that all currently employed – this "currently" is valid until September of this year and for their entire duration of employment as a university assistant – that the non-promovators can participate in the self-employed teaching, at the same rates and at the same conditions as those for doctoral assistants. Question 6 concerns the first hour of university lecturers. The structure of the hourly rates of university lecturers is such that, as you yourself have described, they are higher than those of the others. It therefore seemed justified to use this first hour freely. In the case of a total number of hours corresponding to the average teaching activity, however, this is by far balanced by the higher rates. Question 7 concerns the distribution to the professors. The change in the tax of exams is primarily at the expense of the professors, so that the overall distribution is very likely to achieve a balance. In addition, the rate of pay per hour after the collegiate allowance is much lower than the rate currently applied on the reclaimed teaching contracts. At the same time, I would like to say this, we have agreed with the trade union that, without having to deal with the next package of savings now, the collegiate money discussion has to be conducted very well in the context of a more profound analysis of the status, because, as some probably know here in the room, the supplements to the collegiate money are also objectively difficult to justify in this form. However, for this measure no longer applies that it can be placed under the pre-text of income neutrality. The same applies to the proposal to set up degressive audit taxes. On the question 8, which concerns the art universities: First of all, most of the courses are held at the art universities of professors and federal teachers and, of course, the teaching activities of the assistants. In the last two years, almost all long-term teachers with a high hourly scale in the framework of the lecturer's action in the Federal Teacher's Status have been taken over into a federal teacher's service relationship. The share of teaching assignments in the entire course offer has thus fallen significantly, and therefore we do not expect there to be significant changes. Furthermore, when taking over a teaching contract by an external person, social security continues to exist in the teaching contract, and for many – especially for freelance artists – this is an essential incentive or not just a side effect that is connected with social security. Nothing changes either. I can answer questions 9 to 13 together: The group numbers you mentioned are not true. The draft federal law on the remuneration states that in the future, if held by external teachers, at least 15 students will have to participate throughout the course. A course fee is only made after this draft law, if at least ten students participate in it throughout the course. In the medical subjects, mandatory facilities and "beside teaching" can also take place in micro-groups. This refers to your formulation: It is not reasonable for patients to be tested at the same time by 10 or 15 students. So it's just not true what's going on in your questions or even in your speech. The answer is simple: As before, there are three for the non-remunerated and five for the remunerated. The number 3 corresponds to the current legal situation. The minimum number of participants of 5 for Remunerated but probably not compulsory training courses. 10 to 15 participants are only provided for as a minimum size for courses which are not compulsory courses. So while you are constantly talking about 15 and 10 in your question, it applies to mandatory events 3 and 5. 10 and 15 shall apply to non-compulsory events. The minimum number of participants also does not refer to the admissibility of holding the course, but very likely to refer to the question of remuneration. Question 14, I think, has already been answered. – For all non-promovated persons, the right to independent teaching will remain for the entire duration of their employment. The question 15 essentially relates to the family compensation law. I am not responsible for this question, as has been said. However, I was very likely to make a correction here on the funding of studies. According to § 2 AHStG, university teachers have to assess the teaching material and the courses in such a way that students can complete their studies within the planned duration. The rules on compliance with the study period in the Family Tax Compensation Act comply with the requirements of the Studienförderungsgesetz (Study Promotion Act) for decades. If compliance with the duration of the claim is impossible for reasons which a student does not have to represent, the duration of the claim will be extended both for family support and for student support. So the often mentioned examples of what can happen, for which the student can't do anything, which then results in the duration of the claim being extended, are recognised grounds for interruption. These do not lead to the loss of family aid. Nor is the average duration of study for all students, but the possibility for full-time students to complete their studies within the planned duration of the qualification. It is up to the university institutions to ensure that the requirements of content are fulfilled by students who do so seriously within the planned period of study. The new study law, which can hopefully be debated here in the House before the summer, at least in the Committee, is aimed at reducing de facto study periods. The current study period exceeded – on question 16 – amounts to about five semesters. However, there are all students involved, including those who are fully employed and who, according to experience, cover far more semesters than the average student. The professionals are also a strongly increasing group of students. The main reason for the overrun is the employment. There is – again: Thank God! – a strongly increasing group of professionals who are starting to study. It is clear that those who are not affected by the removal of the family allowance have a much longer study period than those of the average. This is also something I have always represented, namely that there must be no negative consequences on it. Again: Furthermore, we want to significantly reduce study times by means of the new study law. On the question 18: I do not want to repeat now as far as investment funds are concerned. These have also made it possible in recent years to substantially expand the facilities. And if I say to you that since 1990, there have been some 3 500 additional posts for universities, then it is likely that this is a measure which can fix the conditions described by you. At the same time, it is indisputable that work to improve the study conditions should, as it were, be regarded as incomplete. On question 19: In recent years, the average duration of study has changed solely through new legal requirements, from 13.1 to 13.9 semesters. There are also all those who, because they are working, study much longer. It must also be said that the new study law will now lead to corrections, namely the de facto study period. On question 20, the average age of the initials. That's an interesting point. If you take the first degree, i.e. those students who complete a study – their first degree, so to speak – up to and including 27, then 63 percent of all students under 27 years of age, with an average age of 25 years. If you increase this to: How many close below 30?, then the average age increases from 25 to 26 years, and that already covers 85 percent of students. That means, in other words, 85 percent of students leave earlier than 30 years, on average with 26, and 63 percent of students leave below 27, on average with 25. Question 21 concerns the stopover. I've already said: The care centres are not affected and the medical faculties are not affected. – This does not change the fact that this is a difficult measure for universities, which I hope they will soon end. Questions 22 and 23: We have provided that through the Studienförderungsgesetz, there will be a possibility for the former and also future scholarship recipients to compensate for a large part of what they may have to do – I am no matter why I say "probably" – in losses. "Maybe" I say so because one has to distinguish very precisely between those who live relatively close to their university and for whom the disappearance of the network card probably does not represent such social hardness, and those who may live and commute outside the study location. We have agreed with the ÖH that we will create our own fund, which will cover 4.5% of the funding for study funding and will be proposed in the amendment to the Studienförderungsgesetz as a budget accompanying law. With this 4.5 percent – which is just over 50 million schilling – we will achieve a balance, but targeting only those who are particularly affected. As regards R & D, i.e. research expenses and academics: First of all, the proportion of the current final visavis of the respective equal age group is, of course, already much higher than the average figures in the request here, which shows the state and transmits statistically into figures which everyone knows that the number of students has increased considerably in recent years. In this way, the average number of people in need is increasing. The second point is that we have a system through the higher education schools in Austria, which I consider to be perfectly correct and high-quality, but which leads to many going directly to the economy after completion of this training, in particular HTL graduates, and not going to study. I do not consider it a disadvantage for education policy to do so. This is an institution, an educational path that has become almost unique in Europe. I mean "unique" in the positive sense, but that's why these comparisons already suffer a little. In addition to this, you know that the high-school sector has been introduced, because we had a manco in the non-university field, which can now be successfully compensated for through the colleges. As far as research expenditure is concerned, the resources that came from the ministry will have increased from 1.2 billion in 1990 to 2.8 billion in 1996. This is an increase of 133 percent within six years, so that's probably not so bad. At the same time, it is true that we have dealt particularly with the funds, as I have already described, but also the Academy of Sciences here. In particular, the funds benefit the assistants to a large extent, and 95 percent of the funds go to projects proposed by universities. Question 26: I do not know Mr Ditz's statement and can therefore hardly comment on it. Question 27: I don't know this statement either. If they were so liked, you should ask him what he had said a year and a half ago. On the question 28: I would remind you that you have often stressed the data protection provisions in Parliament. I think that this should also be reflected in your questions. However, an answer would be a smooth call for data protection to be broken – apart from the fact that I do not have these data. On question 29: We conduct the negotiations with the trade union. The union has not made this work easy – as it often means so beautiful, but I mean it here in the literal sense. In contrast to your speech, many hours have been invested over many days to estimate social consequences, justice, structural effects et cetera in detail. The agreement that has been reached is not easy for colleagues from the higher education union to handle either. But it is important that professional representation has taken part in these negotiations in a way which is not easy to make. These negotiations should therefore continue at this level. However, what we do together with the trade union is to invite one university after another to coordinate the retransmission possibilities, which are considerable, also quantitatively. I would just like to say to Question 30, in view of the advanced period, that a number of points in the family package have been changed at the suggestion of my department and that the Ministry of Finance has also been changed to the draft, so that there are a little less consequences now. An example: The calculation now no longer works after the study success of the current semester, because it would have been really unfair, but after the study success of the next semester for the next semester. The co-insurance is always reported as lost on all leaflets distributed. - That's just not true. The co-insurance is maintained under the same conditions as at present. There is also a calculation of these two semesters, which are available in addition. It is also the border not generally 26, but, as you know, staged 26, 27. – So there are a number of points that could be corrected. On question 31: The study of the University of Innsbruck contains an unabated list of the wishes raised by this university and various institutions of that university, but have nothing at all to do with the UOG. This was said in the presentation of this study in our House by the representatives of the University, especially in relation to the library area. I am very much for a good equipment of libraries. Especially UOG-related, there are hardly any consequences for the libraries. On the other hand, there is the study by the University of Innsbruck, which was then settled by law. This accounts for total additional costs for the first, second and third stages of between 192 and 207 million schilling. However, this will only happen if all universities are completely transferred to the UOG, which can be the case at the earliest in 1998. On question 32: This is not to be answered for the budgetary period we are talking about, because there is no additional resources for this period. On question 33: The number of places you mentioned is about right. It concerns Linz with eleven, the School of Soil Culture with ten, Klagenfurt with eight, Leoben with four and the TU-Graz with 14 places. However, it is simply wrong to say that the administration is being bloated. There was always a desire to free the scientific staff from administrative tasks. However, I can only achieve this through two parallel measures, through de-bureaucratisation on the one hand and by adequate administrative facilities on the other. But if you look at that from the other side and say that the administration is being bloated, that's just not true. On questions 34, 35 and 36: The involvement of the social partners is a natural measure which currently has to function in any study plan regulation and any study law in the course of the review, not only the assessment by the social partners. We have, of course, continued to consult the relevant bodies in their opinion as part of the review. It is not written that this is only to be referred to this circle, but it is expressly in that it is a hearing obligation and not a decision-making right. The fact that, in the course of the autonomousisation of the study plans, the involvement of external organisations in the discussions on the study plans is only carried out to the extent that it has been the case in the context of the assessments so far, I think it is perfectly correct. This does not mean that it comes from the outside for a long time. Finally, let me say a sentence: Dealing with these things or the situation is too serious, too problematic, and produces too many consequences and too much concern, as if one should easily, not paying close attention to the truth, or even deliberately falsifying, to deal with it. That's not our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6233	We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that speaking time per speaker is up to 15 minutes. Mr Van der Bellen has now been notified to the House. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6254	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Many things were wrong!]] It was now very much about truth and untruth. I think you should be very careful with these vocabularys. I have felt it a little self-righteous, as you have dealt with the accusation against us, that we have a special obligation to the truth. – I would expect this from you too! I cannot recall that Mr Petrovic would have claimed that the academic medium-sized building would lose an average of 30, 40 per cent of his income. On average! "Up to" is also in the text of the urgent request. Each of us knows that this can, of course, be very different from individual to individual. First of all, it depends on whether the person concerned has a full-day post or a half-day post. Second, it depends on how many hours he had reclaimed teaching assignments in the past. There is no need to be a large mathematician in order to calculate that in those cases where a half-day contract assistant with, for example, four hours of teaching obligations – in extreme cases, six hours, which I do not welcome, but four hours are quite done in the first part of the study for certain routine exercises – under the current conditions to the extent that is now foreseen, he can have quite a loss of income in the order of 30 percent and above. That's just some kind of truth. That's not the average, but that's the reality. Federal Minister! I believe that this reality must also be taken note of. Otherwise, it would hardly be explainable, so in the last ten days practically a kind of surface fire has spread over the universities. Is that all the full idiots that can't count on? – Then it would be really bad to order the Austrian universities if the middle construction was made of loud "cases", which could not distinguish 1 percent from 10 percent. Then it would be true! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would just like to draw your attention to this, Minister of State. That's not a threat from me, not that you don't understand me now. I am hardly affected by a professor and by the whole – apart from the exams – as you have correctly said. But if the middle construction makes serious, then the first study section in many faculties and many universities simply stands still! There is no need for any additional access restrictions or the like. Then the first study section is essentially not taking place. – In the second section of the study, the problem is usually less. Federal Minister! You are right, of course, if you point out that there is a great difference between reformed and unrenovated teaching assignments, and that is now the case. Perfectly correct. The faculties have just tried to distribute these teaching assignments fairly fairly to those concerned. If you want to, you can call it unfair; however, a question of truth is not that in my eyes. However, it is not untrue what we have said, namely that in the future, according to your proposal, one and the same course, for example, the exercise III on cost accounting or accounting, would be paid differently depending on the academic degree of the affected, apart from the fact that even the hour would be paid differently for the person concerned, but that is the lower problem. What makes it sense to pay the bookkeeping III differently depending on academic degrees, you must first explain to me. This is a bureaucratic system that does not correspond to scientific understanding. I want to say: It may already be that the previous system contains injustices. Every university insider will not deny this, I believe. We should have talked about this rather than the Brachial programme. This new system creates new and other injustices, and that this should be better in some way, you must first show us. Another point you mentioned in your reply is the question of stopping the recording. I have noted that there appears to be a decree to be preferred to re-occupied employment posts. I cannot say whether this is right or wrong, I have taken note of this statement by the Minister. – The Minister has not addressed the problem that the recording stop of course creates other types of injustices and inefficiencies, namely simply because it is currently pure coincidence – with a systematic error however – in which the office is free to say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This depends solely on the institutions and the faculties in which a higher change takes place compared to other institutes. But since everything is cemented with pragmatized assistants, you can say: That's a problem. I agree with you, but it is another problem we are not talking about. There, where everything is cemented, such as in certain scientific institutes, nothing becomes free and there is no question of re-occupying. But the Sowi faculty, which also belongs to Mr. Lucisch, who, compared with other faculties, have a relatively high change, must bear the entire load of the recording stop. – Explain to me the meaning of science policy! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Passing and going off!]] Temporary. - It's been three years now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have noted that the R & D Fund, the FWF, is receiving additional resources. That's nice, I don't want to discuss it today. We will see what the truth is that you are always addressing, Minister of State, when the Federal Government proposal is in place. It is absolutely necessary to discuss it today. Of course, research does not only take place in the FWF; Research funding also takes place in the FFF. We'll see how this fund is taught. – So far, only the point is that privatisation proceeds should be included in technology policy research. Experience with the privatisation proceeds of the last three years was anything but positive. As far as the number of students per course is concerned, I did not know what you said, Mr Federal Minister. I'll be back later. Something else to the truth and the untruth. Perhaps I have not taken a bad note, but I do not think Mrs Petrovic has said that 95 per cent of students receive family allowances, but she has said that 95 per cent are affected by those who benefit from family aid. This is, of course, a completely different statement, as you will agree with me, isn't it?- Oh, my God! [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: It would be a different statement!]] It would be a different statement. We will see, on the basis of the Minutes, who has questioned here or overheard something. That is not a question of truth, it is simply an empirical question, which will then prove to be true. Very briefly, on individual points of your reply. I think your answer to question 4 has been incorrect. There are cases of this kind that are between 20 and 40 percent affected – I do not say that it is the average, but there are them. To the answer to question 7: It is true that exams particularly concern professors, but the mass of exercises, seminars and so on, these types of courses, which also cover exams, concern assistants, only in the main examinations, diploma examinations and so on, it is primarily professors who are affected. I will come back to the answer to question 10 concerning the numbers of groups. To answer question 29: Trade union: There has been negotiations with the relevant trade union, and there will continue to be some, you have said. I can only say: If the negotiations are conducted as they have been conducted so far, this will not be enough because it has so far been shown that this part of the union has lost contact with the base, namely the academic medium-sized building. You can still negotiate so much, that will not be accepted. The fundamental criticism of this – should we even call it "sparpaket"? – An assistant robbery is once that people were confronted with something like this overnight. Show me another professional group in which it is Usus that one sends a draft law with such income cuts and with two days of assessment – at some faculties he only arrived after the assessment period! It may be that it is not unprecedented, but I can only tell you that this is not only a distribution problem, it is not just a problem of fairness or justice, it is not an average problem, but also a matter of trust and reputation at our faculty at the University of Vienna. For example, during the last two years we have received assistants from Switzerland, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States. These people don't just come to us from jux and brilliance, but they've been talking to before. It has been explained to them how the situation is, how bureaucracy is going and what total income they will have to expect in total. And on this occasion, I do not think it is insidious – that has nothing to do with truth or untruth, but that is simply correct – to say: Well, in our institute you will usually have to do it at two to four hours per semester, we say on average with three hours of re-renovated teaching assignment, i.e., in income so much schilling. Now they have come in the summer of 1995, and in March 1996 everything is quite different. It's different! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Was also a transition!]] Yes, yes! Go! There are other points. I do not know if you are really aware that the provision that magisters – i.e. those without a doctorate – are not allowed to hold independent courses will well endanger the courses in the first part of the course in the faculties I know better. I consider it absurd to introduce, as it were, a hierarchical breakdown of the payment, depending on the academic degree that a person has. It would have been useful if one had heard from the ministry about incentives to research, for example in medium-sized construction. No one seems to have thought about this up to now, but there are many proposals on how to reduce teaching assignments to half. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Service incentive!]] I also wonder how this will be administered in the future. This is not a question which directly tangles the middle construction, but I was finally dean, and I have a horror in front of what will happen, how this type of double quota should be administered by academic degree, on the other hand by number of hours. I already hear here the wishes for additional administrative staff; Administrative staff, which is only necessary because someone is planning a different remuneration of the teaching assignments and, I think, has not considered what he wants. I have overlooked that I have only 15 minutes of speaking time and no 20. I therefore have to hurry to put forward a motion for a resolution. But I could also leave that to my colleagues. I am saving this; my colleagues will do it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is already paradigmic for your interpretations!]] You must explain the number of listeners per course, Mr. Minister. In the law before us, which means "draft to amend the federal law on the remuneration of teaching and examination activities at universities" – now, of course, you can say that this law is obsolete, with us the date of 26. February on it; if this draft law is withdrawn, it is all right – it says: at certain courses a minimum of ten students throughout and at other courses a minimum of 15 students throughout. Now I ask you, what is the case: the law or your current statement? If the law applies, I ask you: What will be with the American guest professor, who of course does not charge the mass event... [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: Three and five!]] Three and five, still? [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: Yes!]] Can I take note of that? As before? [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: This will always be the case!]] Okay, take it back. That was one of the most absurd provisions on this point. I have talked a lot about middle-level construction; of course, my colleagues will also talk about student concerns. I would just like to conclude by saying, Minister of State: There would be common goals: to increase the standard of research, to meet internationally usual criteria, to raise the standard of teaching – not only for those students who take up a scientific career, but also for the others who seek the usual professions. All these are essential points that one could have talked about and negotiated, without the motto of robbery: Now or never! to make it. I hope that the opportunity and the time remain to address these important questions for the university and not to solve them in such an invading way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6417	Mr Dr. Niederwieser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6439	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have today received a little foretaste about how the next few weeks will end and what is ahead of us during the debate on this budget. It is not unexpected for us, but we know that there will be a lot of things happening on many or all points. It is your right to attack, it is your good right as an opposition to signal rejection here. Unfortunately, we as a government group cannot make this easy because of our responsibility, we must try to find solutions. Mr Petrovic has drawn a much stronger picture of the universities than Mr Van der Bellen, from which I do not know where she could actually have it, because this is miles away from what is happening at the universities. In a number of points, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Scholten corrected this apparent "truth", and I would like to stay with what Federal Minister Dr. Scholten meant: The issue is difficult, it is not about discussing easily, it is about real problems, and it is about burdens – that is not a question! – that is why we need to discuss the facts right now and not work with any fiction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Van der Bellen, whose attention I would like to briefly ask for, said: We have never said that the middle construction has to take 30 percent of income losses, these are individual cases. I read Question 4 now: "What categories of professionals are known to you besides the academic medium-sized building, which through the savings package have to take a earnings course of between 20 and 40 percent?" - That's how it stands in the request. Colleagues Van der Bellen then said: We do not think that all of this concerns, but only in specific cases can it be possible to lose up to 30 percent of income. However, the Federal Minister reads to you a list of the Economic University, which includes an extreme case of 11 percent. [[Abg. Wabl: Is incorrectly informed by the officials of the Ministry of Science!]] To do this, we must say: Their question is far from the truth and cannot be left in space. I drove here early this morning with the tram, and it was interesting to hear two conversations. In the trams a lot is currently being discussed about what is happening in Parliament. The first discussion took place between two students who were concerned with the President and his teaching. I do not want to go into this directly, although it was interesting. The other conversation took place between a student and a student, whereby the student, in the sense of Mr Petrovic's argument, meant that a great deal had to be done to the students. It was interesting what the girl replied, namely, that what one expects from the student now corresponds to her study ideas. She said she wanted to try to finish in eight semesters to get into work. It does not even want to get into the situation of risking family aid in the face of an overrun. So it corresponds to their idea that this is possible. One can see, therefore, that even among students there are different opinions about how to design a study. There is, of course, a different degree of concern. The Federal Minister has already pointed out that there have been faculties with very many renovated teaching assignments for medium-sized and others with very few. Here the extent of the problem is different. But it is no longer justified that someone standing in the classroom or in the hearing room gets only 380 s for the hour of 1,200 s and someone else. These differences, which I do not claim now, are contained in the legal regulations, and if we see that injustices exist here, then it will probably be allowed to eliminate these injustices. Colleague Van der Bellens Standard vocabulary was "Opportunity". Dear colleague Van der Bellen! That a package of savings will come to mean that a consolidation programme for the budget will be necessary, which has not been known since the date on which it has been assessed. And now when it's said: If you were to leave us time, we would have much better proposals!, I wonder if no one could have recognized the signs of time before and could have made other proposals that the legislator could then have implemented. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Then the university must also have the autonomy to do so!]] That would have been possible before. It was not known until the time of the review that there was a need for consolidation of a few hundred million schillings. It was also claimed that the offer of teaching was restricted, there was practically no more teaching if the law were to take place. If there is the need for savings, and that is, as unpleasant as it may be, given – we certainly do not do it out of jux or with joy, you can believe it – then it is also about how the existing means are distributed. One can actually shorten the teaching, or one can redistribute within this existing pot, so that the extent of the teaching can be maintained and kept full. But it is also about something else, it is important that all those who are teaching at the university exercise their teaching mandate accordingly. In this respect, I would like to give you a large number of complaints from students, where this is not the case to a sufficient extent. We're going to do that. In the context of the forthcoming study reform, too, we have to see a reduction in real study periods – this is also a problem in the request, and this is indeed a problem, and I believe that this issue of the new study reform, the university study law, will be disputable on the basis of a government proposal. The appeal with the six semesters in the field of humanities will no longer be contained in it – I am sure of that – so that we can come to solutions very consistently and very constructively. In addition to this study reform, it is also planned to improve the accounting of what has already been learned elsewhere. For example, the coalition paper states that subjects who have been taught at the Academy of Education are, of course, also accountable for teaching at the university and that not everything has to be done twice. I believe that this could also help to reduce study hours. Of course, the following fear is also without a real background: Courses fail, exams do not take place, there are overcrowded compulsory courses in which you do not get a place. How, then, should we be able to cope with the study within this time? – In his reply, the Federal Minister has carried out what is contained in the law, namely that such inevitable events, for which the student or the student cannot – and that is something – will not, of course, affect as a removal or reduction of the family allowance or the study allowance. That would be absurd, and I would ask that we do not put it in the future. We have also repeatedly spoken about the restructuring of the social state in our earlier statements on the security of the social state. The system, as it has now been implemented in the free movement, is such a change in the social state. Free travel was previously independent of income, regardless of social conditions. To that end, I say: As long as we can afford this, it may be all right, but if the funds are getting tighter, then we must try to use it more targetedly. It was the Federal Minister Dr. Scholten, who immediately after it was clear that this would be in the coalition paper, sent out a novel to the Studienförderungsgesetz, in which a cost grant was provided. That is, at the same time as the entry into force of this regulation, the removal of general freedom of movement, there will be a cost of travel allowance for those students who come from less social conditions, and you can believe that it will be a great concern for us to compensate for social hardships. It was, and remains, a social democratic maxim that the social origin must not be grounds for exclusion or admission for a study. We will be specifically seeking to compensate for these hardships through such measures – 185 million schilling increase in the study funding budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have also been a little surprised by the parts of the question which asked for the duration of the study by ministers and Members. Minister Scholten has answered very well the way it is. I do not want to ask how long some people have used to sign this request. This is a grip on a deep drawer, because you know exactly that it was essentially work students. They were students who studied alongside their professional activities. We Socialist MEPs have a high regard for all those women and men who, in addition to the profession and often family, visit schools for professionals, make Matura, visit workmaster's courses and then perhaps also study and spend a lot of time and resources, without costing the state anything, except that this place is made available. A Innsbruck professor once meant: If you have a job, you don't need a place to study. That's something we strongly reject. For especially for these people, continuing free access to universities is important. I know a number of people who have come to the universities through the Matura for professionals or through the degree examination. One was from Carinthia and studied in Innsbruck; during the course of his studies, he returned about 100 000 kilometres from Carinthia to Innsbruck to study alongside his professional activity, on the weekend, on Friday which he took leave. – In this respect, we need to offer more. And we defend ourselves that such people are being discriminated against in this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some think you could've given up this money at the universities, that's a few 100 million. So why the whole thing? – I would like to make two points. First point: At the same time, it was a teacher package in the considerable order of around 2.5 billion schilling negotiated. It would not have been easy for schools and teachers to explain if nothing had happened at all at universities. A second, however, is also necessary, namely the responsibility for the graduates of the universities, the studies, to make a policy which produces the structural conditions that they will later also get a job. And the granting of funds for this dedicated investment programme, which will also benefit universities, is only possible if this budget can go over the stage in this form. There is nothing to beautify, ladies and gentlemen. A package with a need for consolidation of around 100 billion schilling meets many, meets all, meets many hard. But why we are still facing people and asking for understanding of this measure is the certainty that each expected month after month would worsen the situation and that what would then come out as a need for consolidation would be much more. It means a national effort, all groups are invited and invited to participate in this effort, and I am also seeking the members of our universities not to close this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6512	Mr Dr. Lukesch. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6534	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In recent weeks and months, the Austrians have performed an amazing and recognized performance. They have shown solidarity with regard to the necessary public savings and also the willingness to offer a financial sacrifice; a victim needed to secure the future. They have thus taken part in the direction decision that our party has always called for and have gone with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's interesting: It has not excluded any group of people from this course, neither the officials nor the teachers, neither the entrepreneurs nor the workers – all of them carry this victim. One must already see this connection about which it is here that the opposition is hiding. She says: Here there is a group that is particularly affected, and the saving of this is not stated. – It’s really about a lot – that’s exactly what you have to say to young people. It is about necessary structural reforms in order to slow down expenditure dynamics in the public budget in order to address the structural problems of our budget, on which Mr Van der Bellen always insisted – he said, we need structural measures which, in the long term, adapt public expenditure commitments to revenue opportunities – in order to also provide new employment impetus in order to be competitive in the technological field and to be able to exist as a location in European and global competition. Part of the student youth protests these days. The Federal Minister has just given us the opportunity if I have correctly understood that some 20 per cent of the measures related to family allowances – I mean family aid – could be potentially affected, and not all students, as the ladies and gentlemen of the Greens have appeared here. The youth protests. I would like to say that it would be a strange youth, it would be a strange studentship if it did not protest. But what is protested against? – against the fact that nothing is changing in our country? But that everything should stay with the old? – A strange position that I would like to draw attention to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The youth protests. – On the other hand, their own future, which is at risk of high and rising public debt, is being put at risk and is not rapidly being changed? – That is also a question, I believe, justified. No, it is protested against some of the measures in the consolidation package relating to student transfers. Here, too, we must say clearly: Students should recognize that it is about focusing these funds from the student transfer sector on those whom they actually need. Solidarity is of great value to young people, to young people who are studying. It makes sense if you do not spread evenly over all. I am curious about what Members of the Liberal Forum say about this. It must be said: Our solidarity is to be applied to those who are actually students and who study quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the non-performance distribution of funds – I know very well, even so far certain parts of student transfers have been bound to minimum success – one will not improve our social system – certainly not! It will be built up in such a way that one day it can no longer be financed at all. We have already cleared up – this package from the family burden balance is currently under negotiation, as new ideas – with many – I already want to say that and I have to emphasize – for example, the recovery of the family allowance claim, even if the study success is repeated, or the recognition of child care obligations of female students for these transfers. – Something should also be provided for the student officials if we continue to make a commitment to co-determination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, some of this package only becomes effective with the summer semester of 1997, so that there is a real chance to adapt to the new performance standards. I am also grateful for the fact that the Federal Government has noticed these corners and edges or that they have been corrected. The absence of the general free trips – which has already been addressed by colleagues Niederwieser – is compensated again for those who are not adequately equipped with the income of their parents. The Federal Minister has now taken over some of the remaining competences of the Minister of Transport. So now it is about negotiating with the public transport agencies, with the transport associations, with the university cities. They also need to show and demonstrate what the many students are worth in their place, in their city. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This grey financial compensation, which has caused a great deal of burden on family compensation, must also be made transparent once more. The losses of the university teachers, the assistants – colleague Van der Bellen, you know that very well – in particular the half employed contract assistants, are extremely hard, even if one can now complete the teaching work in the course of the service period. She used to be outside the ministry, at least in accordance with the law. There are very strong changes and hardships. Here, Federal Minister, you will be – I say – caught up with the failure to reform the university teacher service law. In my opinion, the structure of the new bill is quite all right. The fact that a degree is made to Magister, to the Doctorate, to the lecturer is an incentive to do so. I can recall very carefully the discussions on the UOG 1993 and the changes, such as the habilitation standard, when it always said: The teaching and experience in teaching must be recognized accordingly. - And this is done here. Here, the experience, which acknowledges high-indebtedness experience, will certainly still be rough and not in detail, but for that purpose, the deans will provide appropriate information in the reform universities as part of the evaluations of the courses. And then they will also have the task of saying accordingly: There are teaching orders or fees that are not acceptable elsewhere. But I also admit that there is a certain danger of trying to compensate, in the sense of an inverse offer function, for the loss of income by even more teaching. But here you have to say: It is not the only task of university assistants – whatever category – to teach. This is a question of reaching a professional goal, namely, first of all to acquire a doctorate, to acquire a habilitation, and so on. But, of course, we have strong structural defects in our system of higher education teachers – let us say so – especially in the middle of the building. On the one hand, I can't explain to a skilled worker – whoever – that a three-quarters of an hour in the Hörsaal-Stehen brings 1 200 S gross; I can't explain that to anyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, a professor receives 200 S, which is to be said immediately because for him a completely different pay system applies. [[Abg. Mother: In addition!]] The trouble in this situation seems to be that according to pay schedule there is a low basic income and therefore very high additional fees and remuneration for additional activities. In the whole world, this is the other way round. Therefore, Mr Federal Minister, we should really go into higher education law. We must not be turned off by a Minister of Finance, who says again and again: We cannot afford to change the law of higher education. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that there are negotiation tactics and styles that differ. I just want to draw attention to something: In the field of teachers, this sacrifice, which they ultimately have to offer, has succeeded in putting it into practice together with them. We still have a few days, a week, Minister of State, to discuss intensively with the representatives of university teachers to discuss with the universities, who have expressed their willingness to save everywhere and have said that they have some flexibility elsewhere. Here I ask you, here I urge you to use this time to come up with possible better solutions together with those concerned. Finally, I should like to make two appeals. The first appeal is addressed to my colleagues at the universities. Their measures must in no way lead to the damage to students that further study delays occur, such as the cessation of examinations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – That would be against scientific responsibility. Mrs Petrovic! I would like to say to those to whom you have referred your appeal, that as many as possible are to participate in demonstrations and work laying down – strikes are not in the legal sense –: Do not let it be said that there is no consequences for non-spars.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6631	Mr Krüger has now been reported to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6652	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The more "thin" presence at SPÖ is really nothing but the importance that SPÖ gives to research and development and education. [[Call to the liberals: Five! Five!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is an absolute disinterest, and not even the fact that a member of the government has taken place here, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party can cause us to ensure a presence here which is quite adequate and which takes account of the dignity of this House, but also of the dignity of the member of the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Although it is unusual that I speak for the Federal Minister – but he has not deserved to be here and find such little support in his own ranks. But, ladies and gentlemen, believe me one It will have been the only praise or the only compassionate remark I have received here. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We regret him for this group!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has spoken today of the fact that the new Federal Government is once again an accountable Federal Government. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if one draws the turnaround – he is very close to it – then this declaration by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany means nothing more than that until today an unpredictable federal government was in office. But, ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself: What, then, do the government parties see the predictability in the Federal Government when almost nothing has changed in the case of the individual ladies and gentlemen, ministers and state secretaries? There is no new beginning, there is no human re-employment, no intellect and no vision. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to the department. The scientific and research unit, which is known to include cultural agendas, has now been enriched by the transport sector. This is naturally an absurdity of first rank, because it is not to be seen which kind of relationship the transport resort should have with the areas of science, research and culture mentioned. It is in line with our liberal intention that ministerial posts should be saved from government posts, that is no question at all. But the path that has been taken here is certainly the wrong one. Instead, it would have made sense to include the transport sector in the economic sector, since it belongs there. In any case, I would still be allowed to talk about the environment, but never in the fields of science, research and culture. That’s like the fist on the eye’! And just as the allocation of the transport resort to the science resort is also the personal appointment a fist to the Aug’. For, ladies and gentlemen, all the media, including the media that are usually friendly to the Minister of Culture, have rightly questioned the competence of Minister Scholten to actually fill the transport sector effectively. But it cannot be disputed, Mr Federal Minister, if you would lend me your inclined ear briefly, that Mr. Federal Minister Scholten has relevant experience in transport law, but an experience that cost the Austrian taxpayer 500 million Schilling. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Scholten has already dealt with transport issues, namely in concrete terms, questions of shipping. At the time, he supported and recommended the purchase of the passenger ship "Mozart" for the DDSG. The then secretary and current Minister Scholten was the one who set up a business consultant group which he obviously knew from his time as a Landesbank employee, and at that time this business consulting company supported the "Mozart" purchase. I don't want to discuss all the details here again, I don't want to go further in the wounds of the SPÖ! But it is quite simple, ladies and gentlemen, even though you are aging that this adventure, this short trip by the then secretary, Schollen into transport, into shipping, the Austrian taxpayer cost 500 million Schilling. If I let this experience come into play, I really think only one thing is, that with Minister Scholten you want to make the "bock a gardener"! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: Theme Missing!]] High house! The field of research and development is in the short term in Austria. Only 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product is spent on research and development. This is below the OECD average, which is 1.78 percent of the gross domestic product in question, and this is particularly much lower than the value of leading industrial nations such as Japan and the USA, where almost 3 percent of the gross domestic product is spent in order to teach research and development properly. But also a small country such as Switzerland spends at least a percentage of 2.68 of the gross domestic product for research and development. Ladies and gentlemen! As for technology in general, we have major deficits. Think of the technology balance of payments, i.e. sales, exports on the one hand and the import of patents, licenses and collecting rights on the other. Here about four times as much as exported is imported. And that in a country that in the inter-war period produced most Nobel prize winners, I do not know that the terror regime of National Socialism was responsible for the fact that parts of intelligence, especially Jewish intelligence, were sent to or emigrated to the gas chambers and thus a very, very important part of the entire intelligence in this area was eliminated. If you look at the statistics, you have to realize that there was no graduate in the Second Republic from a university in Austria who would have been awarded a Nobel Prize. Those Nobel Prizewinners who received Nobel Prizes in the Second Republic, such as Konrad Lorenz, have completed important parts of their training during the interwar period. Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly have a serious deficit here, which is to be compensated for. It is therefore certainly a legitimate requirement to teach the field of research and development to the extent that it allows the provision of research, particularly in these high-tech new areas as well as telecommunications, which is ultimately investment in the future. Mr. Minister! We currently have a call for proposals in the field of science and research, which is looking for the same. Mrs Petrovic has already said that family allowances for students who exceed the minimum period of study by two semesters will be abolished. The free ride for students is also deleted. In addition, all students, but also academics who are already in the profession, are forced to buy tuition periods. Ladies and gentlemen! All this is done in the light of the fact that Austria has a very low academic rate of only 7 percent. In this way, we are at the forefront of the OECD as a whole, and before the end of the year, we are taking this unmistakable place in Portugal. What was created here, Mr. Federal Minister, is a social numerus clausus. There is no question at all that the massive restrictions in education policy on the other hand will bring back the tuition fees you have rejected. The art history study was already addressed by Mrs. Collaborine Petrovic by the quote of an open letter from a affected student, published in the daily newspaper "Der Standard". If one considers that on the one hand the minimum duration of studies at the Kunstgeschichte-Studium is ten semesters, but on the other hand 2 800 students are only available to two professors, one can imagine that nobody or hardly anyone will succeed – unless he is a genius – to complete the studies in the minimum duration of studies or even with a toleranceable post-term. Consider, for example, the study of law: Minimum study period 8 semesters, average study duration 14 semesters. In the area of architecture, it is particularly naughty. 75 percent of the students in architecture cover the minimum study time by more than five semesters. In soil culture, it is 55 percent that cover the minimum study time by more than five semesters. There the average study period is 15.5 semesters. In medicine, it is 33 percent that cover the minimum study time by more than five semesters. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't go here like Klubobmann Khol and sit on the TV and just say in the show "To the thing": We'll tell the bubbling student the fight! The system is ill when, in such a number of areas of study, such many subjects cover the minimum duration of studies to a huge extent. Here it is ill on the system and certainly not on the quality of the students! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For what good is it for students if they want to study with zeal if they do not find suitable places in the audiences, if they do not get places in the exercises and if they have to follow the professor for months so that they can get an examination date at all? Ladies and gentlemen! Also, academic staff at universities and universities have been severely affected by the load package. The academic middle construction, the assistants have increased salary losses to around 20 percent. The research allowance has been shortened. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if you are forced to sell the assistants and the academic medium-sized building at our universities, then there will naturally be a negative selection. You, Mr Federal Minister, will not be able to bear the responsibility if it has led to such a negative outcome in the training of students. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because so much is the talk of zero-son rounds: We have to complain of the phenomenon that there has not been a zero-sun round here, but a minus wage round. For this reason, the rector of the Johannes Kepler University in Linz, Professor Hengstschlager – he may above all be known to the right Reichsviertel, that is, the ÖVP, for he was their obmann candidate – spoke of the fact that it is unique in the history of the Second Republic to impose a minus wage round on university assistants. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder why you are so concerned about the interests of this group of professionals so important for Austria's education, for the youth, for the students.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6742	Deputies! Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6757	Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't reincite this package of which you have promised that it will remain tied up, in this important area, then I promise you one: the end of open university access!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6788	Mrs Klara Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6820	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Krüger! I was actually looking forward to your comments, after you were a counterpart to the Minister for Education and Culture. I have expected you to come up with proposals on how this savings package – I would remind you of your conclusion – is intended to add to what improvements you want for the universities, the universities, for our students. Nothing's come! Theme missing! Note five! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: There you have to deal with the government!]] I would also like to say a few words to Mr Lukesch. Mr Lukesch! I do not know from what point of view you take your confidence that the population is fully committed to the savings package, to your savings measures. I can remind you of how your family organizations protest. You were in the house today. Mr Lukesch! I do not think that you are on the right line if you believe that the entire population is voting on your savings package as much as you just wanted to explain it to us. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] With regard to the urgent request of the Greens, I would like to deal solely with the social aspect of our students who are studying aid. Mr Niederweiser! I am not your opinion either, if you believe that this is well solved now that there are no more injustices. She's still alive. The social situation should be a real concern to us, and we liberals will deal with it. Before that, however, I would like to make a comment on the substance of this question. A major problem of the current discussion here and also in the public about changes in the university area is the permanent confusion policy and tactics of the groups involved in this discussion. At the same time, discussions are being held on the UOG 1993. I remember everyone here in the house, how it was cheered up, how it was thought of with praise. I would also like to point out that it is only very slowly that we have not yet been able to feel any effects. The draft university study law is being disrupted in the discussion, although there is no law yet. The law of service and remuneration of the university teachers is also a discussion material. The Studienförderungsgesetz is also a reason for discussion. Furthermore, the talk of improving the autonomy of universities, a reduction in study duration, a fairer payment of university funds – my colleague Barmüller will address this problem separately – is a socially just study grant for students et cetera et cetera. And all of this is mixed and mixed together, and no one knows what should actually be discussed. For example, there are on the one hand the demands of a university's medium-sized building to decide on the savings autonomously, and the central building of the other university at the same time calls for a suspension of the UOG 1993 in order to achieve savings effects. However, no one notices that the UOG 1993 is precisely the law that should strengthen university autonomy. Professor Van der Bellen – he's not here now – I think you have to give me the right if I consciously criticize it now. In the discussion on the draft of the new university study law, it is argued that the hourly coverage of the study plans would lead to a serious restriction on the quality of training. A few months later, in the discussion on the Study Law, it is argued that the excessive number of hours of the study plans require such many teaching assignments. My criticism of this urgent request from the Greens is that this confused, undifferentiated debate, which is perplexed by false information and false arguments, is being doubled in a very populist way simply by remixing facts and problems, legitimate and unwarranted protests, false and correct statements and figures, just because holding everything has something to do with universities. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This should not be the cause of discussing legitimate concerns. The problem and, at the same time, the main question is: Who or what remains on the track? – This is for me, for us Liberals in the current situation is now the social situation of students, and that is the social balance that is simply missing in the savings package that the government has now presented. In this respect, this urgent matter is also entitled. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take a look at the current savings package with regard to students in connection with the savings measures in recent years: I am consciously speaking again of the study aid recipients. Over the last few years, students have already suffered several loss of income, which goes far beyond what other groups of the population have had to contribute to various savings packages. In 1987 the exemption for telephone, radio and television was removed. The rate of student self-insurance was raised from 160 S to 225 S per month. Valorisation of the study aid for 1994 was suspended. The reference of family aid – linked to it are always the social security of parents and the free movement et cetera – was certainly linked to the provision of examination certificates – a good reason to control the student's progress. In the last savings package, the reimbursement of travel costs for students was cancelled and replaced by a fee, which is only one third of them, for example for students from Tyrol instead of 6 000 S only more than 1 800 S. Mr. Niederwieser, I do not know how you want to clarify to students in Tyrol that there are no cuts in them. So reduced from 6 000 S to 1 800 S, that's a serious amount. The family allowance was also reduced by 100 S, which is in the year 1 200 S – also a reduction that meets. The savings measures announced in the forthcoming restructuring package are a further step in some areas. The departure of free travel for students to the university, for example, meets Vienna students with 4,000 S per year, students from the nearby area with up to 18,000 S per year. The binding limitation of the period of reference of family aid to the minimum duration of study plus two semesters does not affect the students of study aid, but has great explosive power for all other students, since the overload of the study plans often means that average study periods are far above the duration of the study. This would mean a further loss of income of 22,000 S per year for many students entitled under the new family allowance scheme, without, by themselves, affecting their duration of study. The withdrawal of insurance periods for the pension may be justified, but it is nevertheless an insignificant retroactive intervention in the financial planning of former students. Ladies and gentlemen! It may be that the current savings measures taken by students do not justify this huge wave of protest, which now runs across universities, but in connection with the many savings measures of recent years in the student field and in view of the fact that the students are a social group, which from their income situation is one of the more socially weak in our society, that is justified. If you continue to consider how things have been done and what coldness – I say this deliberately addressed to the ÖVP – has been achieved and how they have been passed on to universities and their students in particular, it is justified for students – I cannot suspect them – to protest and – as they say – strike, as they have the most correct impression, that the savings fund will once again be used by them, with the weaker ones. They cannot defend themselves, nor do they understand that there are parties – ÖVP and SPÖ – and politicians who obviously do not appreciate the value of education and training, the value of qualified education at universities – precisely because of these measures that are set. Ladies and gentlemen! A fundamental principle of the Liberals is the call for social support to be given priority to those who really need it. From this point of view, we could understand the limitation of family support to the minimum duration of study plus two semesters and the departure of free travel, as it is now envisaged, if at the same time – I stress this – arrangements were made for those students who are considered socially in need due to the income situation of the parents and are therefore entitled to study aid to receive a corresponding remuneration, so that social justice is preserved. Then we would agree – but that is not the case. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] More: By standardising the cost of driving in the Studienförderungsgesetz, socially needed students from the federal states have to expect further significant income losses. Mr Feurstein, I have already asked you: I don't know how you'll make this clear to our Vorarlberger students! Or is it thought that family integration, which the ÖVP always puts on its flags, no longer applies that students should no longer go home? I would also like to point out that in recent years, unlike all other income groups, the maximum study aid has been increased far below the inflation level. There is also no difference between students who have to travel from the environment of the study cities daily by public transport to the university and thus have considerable monthly costs, and those who have the rare luck of living next to the universities. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, however, the main criticism of the measures of the savings package is that the government has failed to improve the entitlement to study aid in such a way that all those students who need it because of the income situation of their parents are really entitled to do so. I cannot see a social balance in the measures of this savings package. This is unforgivable and therefore leads to – legitimate – protests. We all know today that the general measures taken by the savings package in particular families have a significant impact on medium-income incomes. In addition, if these families still have children who are studying, they will have expenditure that can hardly be financed anymore. Minister! I take note of the fact that: You have made small improvements afterwards, but I would like to stress that this is certainly not enough. In conclusion: We Liberals believe that study promotion systems should be designed in such a way as to make it possible for students to conduct their studies without having to work. I do not want students to go to work during semester holidays, but I would like them not to go to work during the semester. I believe that if we let reforms, such as study promotion systems and study reforms, go hand in hand, we would finally be treating this higher education policy, which has been pushed down dissatisfied years ago. Finally, I do not think we are changing this situation by protests, by calling for action to combat. I can remind you: Road actions, road protests, combat measures have rarely led to the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6896	Mr Oellinger has now been reported on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e6917	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I would like to say to Mr Krüger that his ex-temporation, his attempt to bring the DDSG into a connection with the situation at universities, is a little far-reaching, at least it seems to me. But now, obviously, the situation in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is almost the same as that of the Socialist Group: It's almost nobody in here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We will do it to him!]] They'll do it to him. Thank you, I wanted to hear that. It was worth it to me that I received this attention from you. Mr Minister, what surprised me a little about your answer to our urgent question was this very high sensitivity, not to say pictility with which you have responded to certain questions. I understand that from your point of view, some questions were not well formulated. – But please, what is it other than gross if four people sit together in Austria, a 100-billion schilling package excluding the public, so to speak, to go over with the lawn mower? And then let's go. They then still point out from the outside and say: I would have made it a little different, finer in some things, and sometimes you, Mr Minister, may also make small corrections, but essentially this concept, this consolidation package, also in the education field, has been adopted in accordance with the method of "shot gun" or "shot gun": You're balling out and hoping it'll catch someone. In fact, it's got enough. The problem is – and in the case of the "shot shot method" in particular –: It catches some with multiple balls. And we wanted to make that quite clear to you, Minister Scholten. And you, at least for my terms, could not sufficiently explain in your answer that this was different. I just remember – the colleague Mother has already taken part in this – the large number of burdens that come to students. The problem is in particular: We know from all the research on poverty that people in the lower incomes in particular have to make their incomes, not from one source, but from several sources. That is, there is the family allowance, there is free travel, there is something from the parents, and then there is something else you need – and possibly some other sources of income. If you take something out of these different sources of income – which, in total, still do not represent sufficient income, but rather a minimum, a survival income – something is missing, something vital. And there is no one who can replace this vital, even if it is little. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, all these savings can be said: This is not much, it is only about free travel, it is only about reducing family allowances, it is only about the minimum duration of studies being the point of reference for the maintenance of family aid. You can say, of course, that doesn't happen, but you know exactly: Students also benefit from income received from their parents. And this one already catches the savings package, not only with small amounts, but it's about thousands of schillings. That is, the parents are taken something, that is, those parents who at the same time give some of their income to their studyable children. Somewhere the students need to feed on what they need to eat in the future. They give you less, from the various sources of income that the state provides for students, and the parents can – I guess once – no longer give so much, because they themselves have less. Then what remains? – The students' own work. And here is the interesting thing that the Minister – he mentioned this a few times; he probably meant it in another context – is actually positive that more and more professionals are studying. The problem is: There must be more and more study and work by the way because, despite the study grants, Mr Minister, they cannot afford to study differently. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: This is a total traffic!]] That's not total traffic. More than 50 percent of students depend on obtaining income from their own work. We know, Mr Minister, that, for example, a good proportion of these incomes are being achieved through contracts of work. This interesting provision – including the savings package – now comes to the conclusion that work contracts are to be made subject to a social security obligation. You can discuss this, I'd mean, but: These are also taxed. This means that a total of about 50 percent income reduction – should be at least 30 percent – for those who depend on work contracts. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true!]] – These reductions, which are caused by the charges, will, of course, be paid to the contractor and not by the contractor, I mean. In other words, it is also to be expected to reduce the income of students from professional activities – at least for a good part of the students. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, please explain to me: Where are the students supposed to take that? What are they supposed to get from in the future?- Oh, my God! With what you have done, with this savings package 1, with this savings package 2, you contribute to this – a shoppers, a good shopkeeper more than in the savings package 1 – that the social situation of students is getting worse so that students are sleeping at the poverty line. That is the problem with your actions: that you are not precise. You have always said in the past: Social measures must be effective. – But that is by no means the case. They do not, in any way, lead to the conclusion that only those who receive support for which they are intended are affected. You could also discuss this, ladies and gentlemen. I see this a little different from what you do with your plausible view of things: Is it not also about the fact that, in the university sector, people who – let us say so – only half of them who are not really right in their studies have so far been integrated into the social system through the reference of family support, that this has been an income component for many who have contributed to the fact that they have not fallen into the poverty trap that they have been able to secure a certain degree of survival? - That was a positive thing. It is not only negative that they may not have studied enough. You could also have so much "grandezza" and say: It's worth it to us. It must also be said that the measures you want to take in future with this savings package will also increase youth unemployment, but that has not yet been discussed. Of course, for students it is also a question of not having a rosy perspective on employment. Who will give them a job in the future? We will then still talk about the bonus-malus system, which – if it works – will have to cause youth unemployment to rise, or it has the other consequences: Then we have a higher unemployment of older people. Still remains the action you have taken in the field of public service in relation to the employment of students, which will be taken in the form that fewer university graduates, fewer graduates of higher schools will find admission to the public service. Your understanding of education and social policy – I am throwing it to you, ladies and gentlemen from the coalition parties, and you, Mr Minister, are too short to be "knitted"; this does not take effect. You can't handle the future with that. In this way you cannot realize the project which the Federal Chancellor has announced in the Government Declaration today, namely that you want to expand the investment into the future, into education! I would like to quote a sentence because, of course, he can be seen in connection with the budget reorganisation, a sentence that has probably been quoted very often, and the economists among you will know him, namely, of Lorenz von Stein: "A state without a state debt does either not do enough for its future or it demands too much of the present." This, ladies and gentlemen, precisely describes the problem that exists in the field of education policy in relation to students: They save at the expense of the future, but at the same time burden the present generation without giving it a perspective. This is the problem with these measures, especially in the university field. On the educational perspectives. I have already found it interesting, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – you have not taken this up; but I think that you have seen it differently – that in the last few weeks the reputation – including the Social Democratic Group – has become increasingly clear after sponsoring, even in the field of education, so that you do not recover, at the same moment that you say the state has no money to say: [[Abg. Meisinger: Disused!]] But, of course, there are groups in the economy that have enough money. And here the individual people who may be disabled in schools – at least Mr Swoboda has said – should try to get a little money from the companies. We can of course also finance our universities with this method that students may apply to the large companies for a scholarship, that they will receive a scholarship from a company, or that they will generally receive their studies. Only I do not know whether this is really a good investment for the future, whether it is the future, which you, too, imagine in terms of education policy and where you are convinced that this path should be taken. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is the wrong way, the wrong approach. But you are marching in this direction, not only in the field of childcare, but also in the field of education – not now as far as advertising at schools is concerned, but I suspect that very soon as far as the universities are concerned, you want to go in this direction and expand sponsorship as an element of political understanding. At the same time, you admit that the state, which obviously has no money, is unable to get money where it exists, namely the companies which, on the other hand, obviously have sufficient funds available for sponsorship. The following are still: In my opinion, sponsoring is not only a problem, but also the fact that it is obviously already beginning to spread in the university area of canton membership. Minister! I would also like a clarification from you. I know you haven't been one of the advocates of the Danube University of Krems, but I find it quite scandalous that a postgraduate study as in Krems is currently being promoted with some 200 million schillings, that it is the key there: 93 students of 50 teachers are given and the whole thing is properly thought of by means of the country, but also by the federal government, namely at least 30 million schilling, while at the same time you, Mr Minister, have to come here and say: We don't have money, we have to save. But in Krems, it is only because the country of Lower Austria needed a gift for the city of Krems that it is willing to spend 30 million schilling or 200 million schilling for 90 students. These are relations we would also like for the universities, ladies and gentlemen. In any event, I think it would be necessary to defend the beginnings a little more, Mr Minister, and to ensure that at least the conception of postgraduate studies here in Austria works quite in order and not according to the wishes of national leaders or what some people expect, because their city has not become the capital of the country. As my speaking time begins to run, I would like to inform you of the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7051	The next speaker is Mr Ewald Novotny. It will be guided by factual arguments. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7075	Thank you! I do not know whether this was the enthusiasm for Mr Oellinger, who has just shown himself from above, and I must say, Mr Oellinger: With what you said about Krems...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7090	Mr Novotny! I must interrupt you for a second and say that Mr Oellinger's motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. This does not apply to the flight notes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7109	No, I'm going to deal with that. I just wanted to say, As far as your scepticism about Krems is concerned, I share them. And I believe that we must also be very careful that there are not developments which can hardly be justified in terms of efficiency from some local prestige. I would also like to fully support the efforts of the Minister of Science, who is indeed seeking to achieve efficiency. As far as this motion for a resolution is concerned, I believe that this is not at the level of the debate that we have now held, because a number of things have now been clarified, and I would like to go through it quite specifically. You, Mr Oellinger, have claimed that the free-travel will be removed from the 19th century. Year of life. You already have to differentiate: This is not true for the ÖBB area, as far as the counterparts are concerned. There's still half-priced passport. This is only true for urban areas and the area of agglomerations. Here, I mean, we really need to find a solution. It's right: A compensation stop has been created for scholarship recipients; for these I have a certain degree of security, but for others not yet. I believe that there is a need for urban transport, and we need to talk about it. Second point: "Families allowance" means: In the form you presented this, please don't do that. The family allowance will not be deleted but will be limited to the possibility of reference from a certain age after a certain period of study. To this end, the Federal Minister has already stated that all the grounds for exemption which apply under the Studienförderungsgesetz are recognised there. That is, if someone gets sick or it is not possible for him to complete his studies in good time – for reasons that are not with him – the corresponding grounds for liberation are the same as we know them from the Studienförderungsgesetz. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is a point where you really have to look at it much more closely than you did here. To your point: "Removal of the amount of child drop-off": There is the commitment of Mr Klima to the continued existence of the amount of child replacement, even in those cases where there is no family allowance. Furthermore, in your motion for a resolution: Discharge of co-insurance with parents and loss of orphanage. – That’s just not true; that’s defined – and that’s still going on. The absence of the possibility of crediting for years of school and study: There, too, one needs to differentiate. For the pension level, you already have to buy retirement periods. It is about the possibility to buy retirement periods to be able to retire early. I have to ask you, Mr Oellinger – you, you, who are a very strongly social aspect, you are always right to bring in here: Is it really to be justified in such a way that there is a subsidy for academics from general means of taxation? That's what we've got right now. In other words, we have a non-acceptance here, which means a deviation from the principle of insurance. So distribution policy is not actually on the line that you represent from the Greens otherwise. I would ask you – and this is my request to the Greens too – for a certain consequence. They themselves have often pointed out the distribution study of the Institute for Economic Research. If you have looked at this – Mr Van der Bellen knows it very well – then you will have seen that one of the areas where we have very strong redistribution effects up is the current widespread privilege or subsidisation of higher education. This does not mean that everyone is favoured there, but especially the previous privilege of accumulating was an academic privilege. You have to decide: Either you are a distribution policy consistent – or you operate a stand-alone policy for academics. I would think it would be better for you to consistently argue distribution policy. But then you can't stand for such a thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One area, where we should certainly be very sensitive, is the area of students, where I – and I think this, we should all say here in the house – already assume that the study is a beautiful but hard profession. Students provide a service for the entire economy. One should therefore really be careful to do so at times in such a subversive way of promoting discrimination. It is also an economically important area, and in some areas it is a culturally important area, with no economic and cultural need to coincide. So, just as the example that has often been mentioned here today concerns the student of art history and poor care, one must of course also know that a very large percentage of students are conducting senior studies there. Now one can say that is a beautiful and, so to speak, very social institution for Austria. I personally – I say quite openly – have never actually understood why senior education is free of charge. In my opinion, this is exactly the point where you could very well collect fees that people – I know from their own conversations – would like to pay. It wouldn't matter to them at all. The study conditions look different, and I think that there must be a distinction between those who want to do so as a profession and those who so to speak, at age, fulfill a desire. Only the care conditions should not be dealt with so indiscriminately. That's the crux on the whole thing: You have to look at university things very differently, and then you may come to some other conclusion. I am also very skeptical, Mr Oellinger, if you consider a study to be a kind of social benefit. They expressed this very elegantly and meant that you should have the "grandezza" to say: Well, he's not studying, but he's getting the corresponding achievements. So that's exactly the poverty trap you're driving people into, because that's exactly the problem that someone's not doing a study seriously for a few years, say five or six years, but then the day of awakening comes, and that's exactly what's dangerous. [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you offer perspectives?]] I don't think you're doing anything good. I am very much in favour of the fact that everyone and everyone who studies properly should also have the appropriate opportunities from the State. But I am strictly in favour of performance controls, because I believe that only then can a study really be considered a serious profession. It should not be devalued as a kind of hidden social benefit. In the field of higher education teachers there is certainly a very differentiated development, whereas the perspective in Austria is certainly not unproblematic. Professor Pelinka, who is certainly an unwarranted witness, pointed out that it is strange that a large part of the university teachers, especially the assistants, do not have a teaching obligation. This is certainly not a real and international state. The other question is whether these university teachers are rewarded accordingly. I think they should be rewarded according to the need: The stronger they are involved, the more they should earn. I believe it is important that we also see that the burden on mass universities is, for example, incomparablely greater than that of more pleasant courses of study. And this should be expressed in the payment. But I don't think you should play one against another. I would like to say on my own note: One who does not have a doctorate, but has the Magisterium, can of course play an important role in the field of teaching. I would therefore warn against making too early a differentiation in this area. Last point: We could talk about this point for a long time. But that's not a threat, I won't do it now. In your request, you are most recently referring to the University Study Act and above all, you are talking about limiting autonomy when socially relevant groups participate in decisions at the university, for example in the sense that you are thinking about goals of study and considering what the individual courses of study are for. I believe that this is a very important point of the new university study law. There are other points that I am skeptical of. But I would fully represent this point. By the way, this trend is always happening internationally. Internationally, there are usually some boards of trustees or other bodies at the universities. Only: In other systems, there are mostly people in such bodies who have a lot of money and have also donated a lot of money for the university. – We should also be representatives of workers among the social groups. I believe that this is entirely justified. I think a university is not only there for itself, but also has to take into account who it is, who its graduates are working for and for whom they are to carry out socially useful activities. In this sense, it is likely that what Churchill once said – this is also a non-accurate statement – is changed: "The military is far too important to leave it to the generals." – I mean, you can say: The universities too are too important to be left to themselves. That means: What we need is scientific autonomy. This is very important. But we also need social responsibility. And if we were to merge, I think we would have a basis for a reasonable discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7172	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7194	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If today, as regards the urgent question of the Greens, Mr Scholten spoke of a "freer deal with realities", I would like to say to him that, basically, only the focus on which one concentrates is different. And that's a good thing. For if there are differences in this urgent question in detail, and if some of them are perhaps no longer up-to-date, what is required in the Government's proposal, then this gives a significant light to it – and there will be a right for me, Mr Koppler – how the information policy of the government parties, which are now again equipped with a two-thirds majority in this House, is not at all in relation to the opposition parties. [[Abg. Koppler: I am glad you took note of a vote!]] Mr Koppler! I have less problems with this than you do! As a result, you will have problems with this because, although you can carry out two-thirds of measures – and that is why this urgent request is being made – you have actually been pressing ahead with structural reforms. For example, when Mr. Federal Minister Scholten says: These extremes, which are about 20, 30 or 40 per cent, are not true, but are only about 11 per cent, then I believe that it is simply not noted that, although negotiations have been held since 1990, we have not been prepared to accept a structural change. However, I took note – only You do not seem to be, Mr Koppler. – that you could do so with your majority. It is also not said that, for example, those benefits paid by assistants to universities which have not been completed for 15 years are basically paid to pension insurance without any compensation. And it seems that it has not been remembered that the income generated is also being planted, i.e. that you are planning your income and also your expenses and you are relying on them. All of this has not been taken into account, and that is truly the criticism of this measure. Federal Minister Scholten! You will be granted the fact that the system has so far been unfair. There is no question about that. But this cannot be the argument that such a break is now taking place in this area. For the fact that political changeover needs exist not only on this issue, but also in others, is also undisputed. Interestingly, however, there has been no action to this extent by the professors. If we look at the Government Declaration and the Coalition Convention, for example, which concerns political salaries, we can see that one has also identified a need for action, but the measures have been much, much more gentle. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There must be staggering, we will examine, there will be a working group, then somehow it will continue. But when it comes to middle school construction, which does not have a lobby and which is also very poorly represented in the trade union, it seems that there was no such skrupel. – This is a sign to me – especially in the debate among the Liberals – for a social partnership solution. If you want a lobby, you have to be in the union. Those who are not in the union are simply not taken into account in their interests. If you don't have anyone who speaks for one, then you're gonna be the fool in this business. – And that is exactly what makes resentment, and it is now being carried out massively on the part of the middle construction. However, ladies and gentlemen, the basic problem at universities remains unaffected, namely the issue of output. It is about what really is done in research and the number of graduates in Austria. – And these figures simply do not meet the standard compared to other industrialized countries. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not for us Liberals that there are now special budget cuts in the field of universities. We think it would be more sensible in this situation to ask: What measures can be taken with regard to the efficiency of universities? For it must not be overlooked that the logic of organization at the universities also has its own dynamics; and this self-dynamics is essentially making structural changes impossible. An example: Look at the hourly bloating of the study plans! Then you will see that, as long as lecturers and assistants are forced to get a non-insignificant portion of their income simply through reclaimed teaching assignments, they will of course also have an interest in as extensive a study plan as possible. Therefore, decisions in the study committees will tend to be such that there is an increase in teaching assignments at least once in the back of mind. If another part of the income only has to be achieved through examination fees, then of course neither the medium-term nor the professorship really have an interest in reducing the number of exams. I do not want to be misunderstood, ladies and gentlemen: I do not consider anyone to be directly guided by selfish motives in such decisions. But there is no question that group interests play a role in the decision-making bodies, of course, and in the end these group interests lead to an insignificant bloating of our training system through the study plans. Therefore, if one is to make serious progress in framing and disseminating university education, then first of all one needs those conditions that make objective, objective decisions possible in these decision-making bodies. Therefore, the criticism from us liberals about this - in short form - billing law: The savings, ladies and gentlemen, have become one-sidedly concentrated on the medium-sized sector. Again: It is about the fact that there appears to be no lobby, but one will still have to find that the Uni-Sparpaket is more justly distributed among the individual groups. The main problem from a liberal point of view is the basic salaries of the middle construction, the assistants. It is necessary in this area of higher basic salaries, which can already include the teaching assignment. In any case, basic salaries must be increased in this area. The protests that are now being held at the university are ultimately a consequence of years of misdevelopment. Since 1990 there has been no real progress in this area, and this great coalition, which is now acting as a government in new editions and is making this savings package, without having come to a conclusion over the last five years, and is therefore forced to take very drastic measures, the responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! I now call you the proposals from us Liberals to the acute situation – and "acute" is the right word: we need longer transitional provisions, especially for the Economic Union, and a longer period of adjustment. From our point of view, medium-sized construction is to be offered the changeover to a different salary scheme, which is characterized by higher initial salaries, but also by a flatter increase curve. Federal Minister! It would also be appropriate to invite the professorship, for example in the case of examination funds and collegiate funds, or say we can perceivably search them through. The abolition of the tax system would be a start here, so that we can see that it really is a fair distribution in this area. I think that this package would also be politically implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7233	The next speaker is Mrs Monika Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7255	Mr President. Federal Minister! [[The microphone installed at the speaker's desk is powerful.]] The situation is obviously a bit charged, so the microphone is already playing crazy. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The tension has only come with me!]] I would like to begin with a sentence by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from the Government Declaration. He has read to us today that the future of a country is youth and that the future of youth is training. Any investment in training would also be an investment in the future. As with every statement of government, on the first side is as beautiful as ever: "The word that is spoken is true." – If you look specifically at what is planned in the field of students, but above all in the medium-term construction of universities, you can assume that what is stated in the Government Declaration is little more than a collection of many general places and word-girllands. Austria – this is what we have heard today – wants to be competitive. The future is an uncertain one, and we have heard this today in the Declaration of Government. – It is certainly not a secret that work life as a whole, not only in Europe, will change very much. There will be a massive shift in the field of the working world, more and more away from manual employment to more brain work. However, if we look at the status of education in Austria and, above all, it is the academic share in this country, then we will find that it is not very good about the future, probably not about the economic future of this country. We have an academic share of 7 percent in Austria. We are thus far below in the European section, at the end of the scale. Research expenditure – we have heard it several times today – is also embarrassingly low in Austria; in this area too, we are located not only in Europe but also in the OECD countries as a whole. The number of scientific staff in the field of research and development is also shamefully low. I would like to highlight one aspect here – since the social aspect of the situation of students and middle-level construction has already been dealt with by my colleagues – which is important in this debate as a whole, as I believe. There is an enemy climate in Austria towards students. In Austria there is still more or less the tendency to say: The students are a little shy young people who don't really mean learning. For many years now – not only in the context of this savings package, but already in the last ten to 15 years in which I have been able to actively experience it – the climate, compared with other countries, has not really been working to motivate young people to study: it is a climate of student hostility, but also a rather distance relationship with the academics. At any rate, there is a particular distrust of intellectuals in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true!]] Minister! Straight You have always had to feel this painful yourself. That is why I am all the more surprised and saddens me all the more that you, as far as this social policy is concerned, are not slightly opposed to the above trends, which have been reinforced in the media as well. Of course, this anti-semitic and academic climate in Austria has a corresponding impact. The low academic rate in this country and the low expenditure on research and development mean that Austria's universities are not very well recognized or famous in the international field or are considered to be progressive, apart from a few examples, for example from the University of Vienna, where there are also widely accepted publications. Mr Novotny! If you have said here that it is obviously not so bad with all of this, I will tell you: The University of Economics hardly plays a role in international economic publications and discussions. And all of this is related to the fact that there is simply a lack of political interest in really promoting, supporting and, above all, equipping this area with more financial resources than has been the case so far. If it is not finally recognized that the future really lies in investment in research and development and therefore has to be given much more political attention to this area, then it is indeed not about the future of Austria in the field of the working world as a whole. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One aspect to conclude: If you look at when, in Austria, great scientists have had international reputation and really great successes, you notice: Undoubtedly, it was just in the interwar period, and in 1938 it found an abrupt end. The real sizes in this area were distributed and – far worse still! - killed. In reality, this intellectual cavalry has not hurt Austria to this day, and it has never been done to recover those capacities that have survived this terrible Holocaust and actively try to correct the injustice that has happened here. Much has been missed in the field of science, research and teaching. I find it embarrassing that so little attention has been paid to this area to this day and that there is so little investment in this area. Finally, I read a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Don't let it come to a confrontation just in this important area. We will see tomorrow how many thousand students will protest this load package on the Ringstraße in front of this house. We hope, Minister of Science, that we will find a little more understanding with you than before for all these demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7354	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Stoisits has now come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7378	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In fact, I had the feeling that today there was already a lot and a lot of interesting discussion, and I was almost trying to get rid of the list of speakers. However, I did not let myself go because I would like to give you a lot of things in your new role as Minister of the Future with the new agendas you have received. I am fascinated by and for myself this combination, with which to be confronted and to work now you have the honor. I am fascinated because I am also former members of the Federal Ministry of Science and Research, but when the art was still in the Ministry of Education. I also worked under Professor Dr. Tuppy and Dr. Busek and therefore always felt that the area of education should be grouped together under one roof, i.e. from primary level to including universities and universities. Now – for admittedly party-political reasons – there was, not so, but a constellation that seemed to be a bit strange at the first moment – it was also assessed by the Greens. On the other hand, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, in the answer to the question today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Scholten has set such a good example as to allow me, which I have not been so critical, to say today that I have been mistaken in my assessment. Federal Minister! Of course, we can only ask this parliamentary urgent question at this moment, because in two weeks everything is probably too late. That's why we could only put them today. You have to answer our second question: Why did the universities only have a review period of 27. ==References== March?, replied that time pressure exists. – Time pressure is also in place here. This has also been recognized by Austria's students who do not have a Europe-wide reputation for being a particularly tiring and exceptionally custodian group. This also has something to do with the Austrian climate. At all universities, students have cooperated with those who are also so affected by this savings package, namely, with the medium-sized building at universities, and are now protesting either all unisono on the street or in the classrooms. That is why it is not the way the Members have tried to say that everything contained in the questions is simple and simply the untruth. At this point, thousands of students in Austria and hundreds or probably thousands of lecturers, assistants and assistants are certainly not wrong. Because they are not only worse in material terms, but they are also about the reputation and reputation of Austria in terms of science and research policy in this entire savings package discussion in the field of higher education. Since the era of the Federal Minister Firnberg, there has always been a very successful, sometimes not so successful, but, at least, a plausible approach to polishing the image of Austrian science and research policy, which was characterized by a bit of dahintumpeln. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is only possible if the research funds are greatly expanded not only in the university field, but also in the non-university field, but above all the universities and universities, in the truest sense of the word. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is more valuable than the human resources there? – The way in which one deals with this most valuable capital, namely with the spirit, is what makes me so outraged! It has often been said today how difficult it will be for those who come from socially less well-positioned shifts to continue to study or to study in the future if precisely those achievements that have offered these possibilities are limited. As a student, I was also a beneficiary of this annual package for the journey between the place of residence and the place of study. That was real income, which now also falls away. – But above these facets, the human resources are especially at my heart. Federal Minister! If, at the beginning, you have said that the easily flammable prejudices – no matter how they are assessed – are so dangerous because only the statement makes them more inflammable, then, Mr. Federal Minister, I am right. I warn you, however, in a sense, that precisely those groups that now protest so massively, students and their teachers at the universities and universities, which are mentally, personally, but also politically on your side, are now shaking with a coolness, having regard to those in the National Council who are concerned that the needs of students and teachers are not taken into account, that their concerns and criticisms do not come to the decision-makers, but only the untruth say nothing. Federal Minister! Time pressure is rising. It increases for those who will have worse study conditions due to worse material conditions in the future. And the time pressure to polish the international image of Austria is also increasing, especially – and this has not yet been addressed – now, one year after we joined the EU. This is also a very critical citizen of the country. Federal Minister! In this field, you have a lot to do as a science, as a research, as an art and as a "minister of the future" under the feet of geese. However, I have the impression that you are starting your new function by already questioning your reputation very much now, if not just disaster!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7443	I call Mr Grollitsch. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7465	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to the Greens for bringing in these essentials, but at that time, although the students, the SMEs and the professors may be regarded as pars pro toto for the large group of Austrians affected by this tax package. Almost every professional or age group would have the right to be treated here urgently. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are also very many in the country about this hectic money acquisition action. As such, it must also be considered in the eye of a neutral observer if it is to be replicated that 18 months ago we were assured that there would be no strains of any kind ever, 14 months ago the "resurrection had to benefit all", and four months ago the President of the Federal Chancellor informed us that he would ensure that every young person had the same opportunities for good training even in the future. Education must be there for all and should not become a privilege of the rich again. . On the other hand, the proposed measures are in some way a social numerus clausus, they are also less critical. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Scholten, when bringing his answers to a denominator, said that he exchanged an unexplainable and unjust system against a forward-looking one, and he had primarily treated the request and its contents and simply as "untrue". Many speakers have now shown that the content is essentially concerned with the concerns of our university members, and the two motions for resolutions tabled by the Greens – and that is because of my speech – are quite welcome by our group just a short time ago. They are essentially covered by our proposals, so I can say that our group will agree to these two motions for resolutions. Mr. Dr. Scholten has literally said that the situation is too serious to be easily dealt with by the truth and the emotions of those concerned. First of all, the situation is serious: A few months ago, and especially during the last budget debate, the economists of our group called the situation extremely serious. – At once, he became a nester, credit damageer, populist, and God knows everything. He called the situation "serious" at the time. The fact that they are now officially to be called is a catch up with the truth. There is nothing to add to it in and out of itself. We are and have long been aware of the seriousness of the matter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrians have also actually signaled – and it was certainly a high tactical ability, which was proved by it – that things were shared, that they wanted to be resolved in solidarity. But solidarity to save requires two things, Mr. Federal Minister: That requires information and that requires trust. "Information" can certainly not be mentioned to the universities with a four-day review period, and in terms of trust-building measures you have not spoiled us precisely since your appearance in this department. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Also the confidence you receive from the university today, in the answer to the question, you have clearly stressed with your A-priori statement that the universities are unable to manage the money, they would shift from investments to expenses and personnel costs. There is no evidence of this assumption. We believe that universities would be able to contribute their share of the savings measures with clearly defined directives, clearly defined savings targets and, above all, with the democratic need for codecision. But what were the statements? – They have said that the rich must contribute much less to the less rich. Please, where do you want to order the students? Are they rich or not rich at all? What do they live on? Today's speech gives the impression that all are recipients of state scholarships. Those who know the numbers know that there are not even 10 percent scholarship recipients. In addition to the fact that many professionals had found themselves studying by the Minister, it has a different relevance. Those who live in this environment know that when they reach a certain age, the distress, i.e. the reverse situation, drives students to work. It is true that they are also preparing contacts with a future profession, but first and foremost it is the need, first and foremost it is the acquisition of money that forces them to do so, and it is by no means so idealistic that it would be for the pure joy of the students. As an opposition party, we certainly do not stand alone with our critical voice on all these measures, and I may present to you a small selection of statements: "The 100-billion schilling sparround of SPÖ and ÖVP has nothing to do with social balance. Socially weaker would be massively reduced by the born measures, education becomes a luxury." – Mr Berlakovich, President-in-Office of the ÖH, has said this, which is not too foreign to you in terms of content. "The savings proposals of the negotiators SPÖ and ÖVP are rejected with a clear no. The required link between the payment of family allowances and the minimum duration of study – it would certainly not have occurred to us – is unbearable." - Who says that? – The student group of Aktiensgemeinschaft AG. "Punishment for socially weaker students. Assurance of social weakness is sacrificed with the recorder." - Who says this? – The VSSTÖ, the Association of Socialist Students of Austria. "Critics of planlessness in the calculation of plan posts. Which figures are used to calculate savings?" questions to us and the Austrian high school. The rector of the University of Graz calls the planned savings measures " neither socially nor socially sustainable". And perhaps the strictest way of judging you have known Mr. Windischbauer about the media. He calls the whole project "Walking With System". [[Because of the high noise level, President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Please go! Go, Pauli Kiss!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Kiss! I don't want to give the compliment back. You really make it very difficult for me when you stand out there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But he speaks shorter!]] That is why, in the opposite case, I have a little understanding. But maybe take it. I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make a statement on this subject, as one of the statements of one of those concerned, who simply praised the fact that an urgent question was put right and at the right moment, and allowed himself, within the framework of his group, to follow up on these motions for resolutions. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7561	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. We come to the votes and I ask you to take the seats. Firstly, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the withdrawal of the savings package, as far as the students are concerned. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, Petrovic, to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall also vote on Mrs Petrovic's motion for a resolution on the withdrawal of the draft federal law on the remuneration of teaching and examination activities. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. This concludes consultation and voting on urgent request. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7619	I take the negotiations on the 4th and 5th. On the agenda again, on the reports of the Committee on Immunities on a request from the Vienna Regional Court for Criminal Matters and on two requests from the International District Court. I call Mr Magistrate. Stadler. His open speaking time is 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7643	Mr President. High house! It is significant for the immunity debate that has been held in Austria over the past few weeks that, although not even the first speaker in this House has taken the floor on this issue, the printing press is already working and the Austrian printing media report that Dr. Haider is being delivered. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way you deal with immunity! We have not even debated this problem, the printing press is going to start and is reported: Dr. Haider will be delivered, just as Mr. Kostelka at the time announced about the media. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka, therefore, does not hold the immunity debate in the House because he knows that he is not going through with his hypocrisy, that he cannot exist, in particular in front of the House, in a mischievous debate – that is not new – but he is holding the debate on the immunity of each Member on the daily media. This is significant – I repeat it again – for a process which is special justice, which is political arbitrariness against the opposition and which in particular is to meet a displeasing opposition politician. I am now referring to the comments I made before the debate on the urgent question of the Greens. It is not only possible to use the public prosecutor's office for the private affairs of the Lord of One, the Deputies of One, but it is even possible to ask questions as to what the personal protection for Dr. Haider costs, and a police officer who dared to intervene accordingly in the law... [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I cannot explain it to you often enough, so that perhaps sometime you can see how you are already taking democracy with your feet, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Reichshalf. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are already going to allow a police officer to be prosecuted by a disciplinary procedure, just because he dared to do his legal duties against someone who had committed a similar act in the course of an election rally. This man is now being prosecuted. Haider is prosecuted against the prosecutor in the private case of Mr. von Einm. At the same time, we ask what personal protection costs at all. Finally, Mr Kostelka, you should admit that. – you don't want any more opposition in this house. Mrs. President of the so-called Liberal Forum – I have already said: the Socialists' blind intestine – Mrs. President of this blind intestine now demands every presidential meeting: Time limit for opposition! Get away from the speaking time! Get away with the immunity! - Get away with the opposition! – that will be the next credo. We are still concerned about the debate on the Rules of Procedure, which we are still in the house to fear bad, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition groups. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, it is only too consistent if the Greens see exactly what is happening here. In the immunity committee, the ÖVP no longer remembered what it had experienced when it was in the opposition. She does not consider that this is, of course, a matter which affects the opposition groups more strongly if, in the political day-to-day work, they can be covered by complaints by the powerful people of the country – not by any small citizens – I can only repeat it – but by powerful corporations, chemical companies, pharmaceutical companies – Mrs. Mrs. Petrovic has experienced this – of media giants, media giants and ministers, who can ultimately even control the entire police apparatus. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: School directors!]] This was no different from that of Mr Graff, and this is now also the case with Member Dr. Haider no different – which is why I clarify: If one wants to eliminate immunity that is not professionally immune, then one should do so – and there is a corresponding request for freedom – by making a clear, valid, arbitrary solution of the majority, which has been passed on by the Constitution, as we have proposed. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: School directors!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it is not a question of introducing a half-solution, a half-solution, which the majority is practically annual to the disposition, with which one tries to discipline the opposition on the issue of extradition practice – and this is still under a Klubobmann Kostelka, who himself has announced that he wants to act at the parliamentary level, and also as regards his willingness to compromise – I quote literally – "as if we had the absolute majority". – End of the quote. Mr Kostelka can rely on the fact that he can act as if he had the absolute majority – because in the Austrian People's Party he has found a willing helper in such a sensitive question as the change in extradition practice, who withdraws into the so-called coalition-free broom chamber and, when it comes to handing out Dr. Haider, even the requests made by Mr. Dr. Kostelka himself no longer dared to put. That is why this ridiculous committee statement has also been made which, in addition to the ridiculousness in the basic procedure, is still demasked by the fact that there are completely false offences cited as private indictment, because, due to a certain ignorance of the Group of the Austrian People's Party, it is still not possible to distinguish between... What did you mean, Mr Maitz? Can you repeat the gesture again? Do you have a headache? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Private loan!]] Who allowed you to make a call? Khol said you can't. Let's call! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Do you already need a permit to make calls?]] You don't have permission to make calls. Khol said you can't make intermediate calls. So, let's also leave the spirit! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you have headaches, take a powder, but do not explain to me that this so-called committee is in line with the Austrian criminal law system. [[Interlocutory calls at SPÖ, ÖVP and the Freeman]] Every criminal lawyer in Austria turns it around the stomach when he reads what you list here as a private debt offence. It was not surprising, however, that another decision put forward by the rapporteur, which has the following substance, was taken by a decision that the question of extradition was taken against Dr. Haider on the basis of the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, because it dealt with the same matter. [[Abg. Kiss: Stadler, do you need a psychiatrist?]] The chairman of the committee has not yet heard – and that is the dramatic thing about this story – that, in the case of Minister One, as regards the incriminated facts, he would have done any things in Zwettl as a probationist that there would have been any drug history, his official status under § 117 para. 4 StGB is not at all possible, as Mrs Höbinger-Lehrer as a prosecutor confirms to me with a decades of experience. This is not possible at all, and it is therefore only possible for these crimes to be brought before the public prosecutors. But Mr Steindl does not care about the legal order. [[Abg. Kiss: No, never!]] What do we need a legal order if we have a majority, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Free in accordance with the Wallnöfer principle: You're right, but we're the many! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is why the legal system is being passed over, and every embarrass is then appointed to the Committee. The lawyer of Dr. Haider is grateful to you for this embarrassment, while Dr. Haider has nothing to fear by the rest of the two proceedings – because I have to disappoint both of you, both red and black. [[Abg. May. Steindl rises from his place and bows toward the speaker]] Indeed, Mr Caspar of One has deliberately – as I claim – complained to the wrong court. Instead of suing the media content offence at the competent Landesgericht Klagenfurt, he complained to the District Court of the International Market so that he could say afterwards: I would have liked to complain anyway, but unfortunately the lawyer sued the wrong court and the deadline has expired in the meantime. Mr. Fellner of the magazine "NEWS" has already lost his first processes. There will be So they don't reap anything. However, what you are going to reap is the accusation that today, with an unprecedented hypocrisy, you have launched an attempt to bring down an opposition politician by means of state violence!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7800	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Speaking time: a maximum of 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e7821	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! We have heard strong words in connection with the decision of the National Council to be taken today: The elimination of the opposition, the disciplining of a whole Parliament, the retroactive removal of immunity was claimed there. Mr Stadler has also said that we are bending legal instruments that reminds him of the fatality of authoritarian regimes and that this is ultimately a parliamentary special justice brand Kostelka. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, it is!]] First of all, Mr. Dr. Stadler: Thank you very much for the "loving" affection you have given me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, everything just claims!]] But if you twist the facts the way you do this in the media statements on 23. This year, second in the Committee on Immunities and then here and today, it is necessary to consider briefly what has actually happened. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes! Quickly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are aware that Article 57 of the Federal Constitution merely provides for a procedure – a procedure and not a procedural one! This means that the Immunities Committee and, subsequently, the Assembly of the National Council will have to decide in each individual case whether to be delivered or not. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Yes, that's it!]] So that this is not the case, the Immunities Committee has developed a saying practice in a good, decades-long tradition, rules according to which the person is delivered or not delivered. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is a saying practice in the court and not in the committee! That's the first one!]] And this saying has led to the new principle decision of the Immunities Committee that in the case of quite certain offences, bad renunciation, accusation of a criminal offence, insult and credit damage; this can [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is a saying practice in court and not in committee! You're talking here like you're a judge!]] You do not make it false, even if you are still in the middle of it – in the future, regardless of whether the person involved is the name of Haider, Kostelka or Khol or one of the other 180 Members of this House. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you are not a judge!]] This is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because you have misused the instrument of immunity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But what actually happens so fearsomely? What is so bad that you accuse us of the rule of law? All that is happening is that professional colleagues from Dr. Höbinger-Lehrer, from colleague Partik-Pablé, from your colleague Rauter, decide as independent judges the legality of what Dr. Haider has done to third parties in this Republic outside this House. [[Abg. Kiss: They have problems at the Rauter!]] The prevention of the rule of law is, in your opinion, that you are not deprived of the rule of law, and that is modern, necessary and an act of equality. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also do not understand your special excitements, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. What will result from this decision? The 100 cases, which, according to Dr. Haider's lawyer Dr. Haider's information, lead to a legislative period as a claimant, now come in about 10 to 20 in which he is a defendant. Ladies and gentlemen! This is equality in the sense of equal treatment for perpetrators and victims. They are supposed to be more important to the perpetrator than the victim, but vice versa. Prove it! Say yes, all of you, so that the perpetrator Haider will come before the judge like everyone else, because this is, ladies and gentlemen, a necessity when things have happened like those we all know. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But there is already the presumption of innocence!]] It has been called a truly rude, highly respected, qualified university professor as scandalous brother, only because he has made a mistake in his life: to make himself available for the candidate to the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The judgment is already settled, and the first and last instance is Kostelka!]] As a result, there has been the accusation of dealing with criminals and the release of funding to millions. When a decision by a judge was made in civil law that such accusations should no longer be raised, and when Dr. Haider agreed to withdraw, do you know what the result was? [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is an immunity problem?! You still haven't understood that? A civil lawsuit is an immunity problem?! – Bring it to him once! He doesn't seem to understand that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bring it to him once if he does not even know what the civil law lawsuit is like!]] It has withdrawn itself under the protection of immunity again of this obligation of law. This, ladies and gentlemen, is highly inappropriate and therefore requires a correction – a correction by judge! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The same is true if you call a retired leukemia disease a Spitzbuben or an editor a clumsy. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a historic instrument such as immunity indeed becoming a privilege! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: And who said this with the hyena in pure virgin wool, Mr. Colleague?]] That is why we have drawn the consequences, in all cases! How hurt you are that you are a citizen – and nothing but citizens! – to be treated, you can see your reactions [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's your haemic grin?]] They're shy of judges! Ladies and gentlemen! You have the merit of writing on your banner that you have called on immunity and thus also parliamentarianism. What we do today is nothing but draw the consequences from it, and we do so in the sense of the quote of Tocqueville, that any right can be ad absurd by taking advantage of it to the side. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Who said this with the hyena in pure virgin wool?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Hyenas in pure virgin wool – who said that?- Oh, my God!]] You have done it, you have led the immunity ad absurdum – and we are drawing the consequences! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly privilege riding purest water, under the protection of immunity slanders, abjections, evil remorse and insults. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What do you mean, slander?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where have you studied that you do not know what slanders are?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're so hot!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is nothing new!]] In my opinion, this is not least because of the privilege of pure culture, because you seem to defend all of this here and, as a hit, find nothing at all to view the mandate – as in the person of the Dr. Haider – as a loss writing model. All of this is a fact that we are going to have to deal with in this House: today by this decision and by a corresponding further discussion on the referee law. I would like to finish by making one point. We should not have been dealing today with two, but with three extradition requests, namely one extradition request concerning Mr Peter, who has used the sentence to one of your colleagues : [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have three! There are three extradition desires!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have three! Make yourself aware if you don't know!]] "That's, please, fascism." Your colleague, Mr Rockenschub, complained, but, in the meantime, there has been a withdrawal of this action. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Look here!]] That's where the question arises: Why did he do that? – There are three reasons for this. The first reason – I really don't want to trust you – is that Dr. Haider has become aware that it would be nice to stand alone as martyrs, and that this Nimbus – who does not belong to him – should not be shared with Mr Peter. The second reason for this withdrawal of the action is that the Liberal Group has become aware that it will lose this process. The third possibility is that you may find nothing at all to be drawn to fascism. Ladies and gentlemen! You can choose it. I can tell you: If one last reason and proof of the correctness of our procedure would have required it, then the "time in the picture" delivered it 36 hours ago when Dr. Haider called him "a half monkey" at a press conference, tax free of charge 124 Members of this House. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Lemuren called us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Such a name does not deserve anyone in this Republic – nor does the representatives of the National Council, people who are devoted to their task in all seriousness. With this, and with all the reproaches, you have introduced a form of action into the policy that is really to be stopped. Today's decision is a major contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e8204	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. His speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e8226	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's debate is important, because today we have to deal with the form in which the instrument of immunity is to be dealt with in the future. There have already been very emotional and excited statements from this pult today; especially from Mr Stadler, but also – I do not think you can see – Mr Kostelka was kind of excited. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With him it was an artificial excitement – as always!]] It may already be a replicating excitability, and there is a certain difference: Because if someone provokes and then wonders that he gets the right answer to it, that seems to me at least a little wretched. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is wondering? We're not wondering! We're not used to anything else!]] On the one hand, we are dealing with the delicate field of political use, and on the other we have to ask ourselves the question of the weighting of goods. For if you read the article 57 of the Federal Constitution – this is the case here – with care, you can see that there is the right to be extradited there or not to be extradited at all times in the disposition of the majority of this House, however – and that is not quite unimportant – it was an unbroken tradition of political practice to make use of this right only in such a way that, in principle, it is not extravagant. We now come to the conclusion that this exercise on extra-parliamentary immunity has, in this case, been unfairly used by several colleagues. In the consideration of legal goods, the question should be asked as to what is the protectionable good: Is it immunity, which is a right of the House and not of the individual Member and perhaps also a right of voters to choose people in this House who can then speak freely, or is it the right of the citizen concerned? In this case, it is about the quality of the private person and not about other characteristics of that private person. Whether this private person is rich, influential or powerful is not the subject. The issue is that a member of this House looks towards a citizen. Criminal law also knows this constellation, in the form of private credit. If, for example, individual citizens are entitled to restore their honor in the case of a private creditor, and can even act as prosecutors in the criminal proceedings, then the legislator of the criminal code has thought something about it. He was of the opinion that the free disposition of the citizen should be the only maximum, whether it comes to criminal proceedings or not, on this point the official ceiling does not prevail, which, in the case of other offences, obliges the prosecutor to intervene on his own initiative or on his own initiative. This situation has enabled us to come to the conclusion that we have also written in a proposal for an initiative which is already in place in this House and which has now been allocated to the Constitutional Committee. We were of the opinion that if one came to the conclusion that immunity in its structure so far does not work by the fact that abuse is driven by insults and that visas cannot really defend themselves, it would be correct and reasonable, not the practice, but, in this point, to amend Article 57 of the Federal Constitution and the corresponding § 10 of the Rules of Procedure by saying: Then, if they are criminal acts against honour and private indictment, then there is no extra-parliamentary immunity. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I do not share the fear of those who think that this would be a dam break and worrying. I believe that, if there is a breach of dams, we cannot have the reason for trying to restore our own honor in the matter of criminal acts against honour, by saying that we cannot stand as the majority of this House before colleagues who have committed such a crime. The fact that the practice of immunity could be misused cannot, of course, be excluded for the future. However, the fact that it is assumed from the outset does not correspond to my access to politics. For I am convinced that the majority of this House does not mean that it would only consider how to abuse its mandate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was just admitted!]] I don't think so. That is why I say again: We believe that Article 57 of the Constitution should clarify that such offences are not subject to extra-parliamentary immunity. Now to the current cases; Mr Kostelka has made some progress, but I say it again: Originally, there were three cases. My colleague, Mr Helmut Peter, has also been on the agenda of the Immunities Committee with a desire for extradition, because of a similar offence, namely a crime according to § 111 et seq. Criminal code, as Mr Haider did in two other cases. Against this background, our group has expressed its opinion and we have tabled this initiative proposal. We were of the opinion that Mr Peter had to justify himself in this matter before the criminal court. If he has actually committed and is condemned in tone, it will be a teaching to him, and if he is acquitted, then he has been able to rehabilitate before a court. But what happened? – Before entering the agenda of the Immunities Committee, it became apparent that the private prosecutor – a member of the Freedom Party and member of the Federal Council – withdrew his accusation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can he do that?]] Of course he can do that! He has made use of a completely legitimate right. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come on!]] Mr Kostelka has already presented you with the three interpretations here in detail, so I can save myself this. I switch between variant two and three. [[Cheerfulness and condolences at the Liberal Forum and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But one thing is certain: As a result, you have reached the conclusion that Mr Stadler was able to make his statement here, which was based on reluctance, by representing colleagues in Haider as martyrs, as single examples and as persecuted dissidents. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kostelka has confirmed this!]] He went in the choice of words to Stalinism. He has drawn the majority of the house of Stalinism. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kostelka has said that it is only about Haider!]] Mr Stadler! I am not just about Haider, but you are obviously just about Haider, because otherwise the private loan against Mr Peter would not have been withdrawn. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ODP representatives.]] You may better understand what I mean when I tell you: Of course, there is also a civil law procedure in the case of colleague Peter, which is quite possible, that the immunity does not, of course, inhibit, and this civil procedure against Mr Peter goes on, of course, because this is not suitable to affect Mr Haider's martyrdom. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There are three requests for extradition, and all three are against Haider!]] This is why we are continuing the civil procedure. That's why I said I'm going between variant two and three. However, criminal proceedings are eliminated so that a lupen-clean dissident-day order can be shown in the immunity committee. But I don't like that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Me neither!]] Maybe it's a historical coincidence, maybe Rockenschub was enlightened by the Holy Spirit, maybe he withdrew his complaint for other reasons, I don't know. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because he knows the Judicature in the meantime!]] He may also have other reasons. Mr Kostelka mentioned the three variants. In any case, it is very strange to say now that the whole change in immunity practice is aimed at freeing someone from birds, freeing them to shoot them, refusing to protect them. This is very strange, because it is not bird-free, if you have to justify yourself before a private prosecutor because of an honorous insult. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is objective!]] I understand something completely different under the free of birds! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] It is also new to me that, in the Austrian District Courts, the gun will be used by the judicial authorities when someone, as you say, will be released to fire. - I'm just going to record your words. It is in itself an exercise of your group to use very strong words for minor matters that is to be illuminated in this case. At the same time, you also use images from anatomy. But if you refer to the chairman of our group as the chairman of a blind intestine, I am referring to the fact that you are particularly well aware of this field, because you may be at home where you are usually affected by the idiosyncrasy. Apart from that, I may have a wrong understanding of such things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You must first have the idiom operated!]] But if you project such expressions on us, we are honoured. Because if you're insulted by Stadler, that's a clear indication that you're lying right. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ODP representatives.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank you! But if you still give me some compliments now, you will abandon your group!]] Mr Stadler! Sometimes you can't choose it. By the way: I hope I'm not sorry if I praise you. I hope I'm not sorry about this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Now I come to the highly interesting request of the liberals to abolish all immunity – I find it very interesting –: On the one hand Stadler goes out here and laments that Haider must now justify himself in honorary matters, but at the same time he recalls that his group has made a request to eliminate immunity at all. In my opinion, this does not fit in and does not make sense to me. Because, of course, that would actually be a dam break. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I believed you understood something about the rule of law!]] I understand some of the rule of law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Obviously not!]] I don't think I need to justify this to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Obviously, your lawyer was not long and thorough enough!]] Listen to me now! I now come to the pikanery of this request: This proposal is not an own-initiative proposal, as one would say, because it concerns the matters of this House. It's about ourselves. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course!]] We are therefore concerned with ourselves, which is not an initiative, but a so-called motion for a resolution. He is addressed to the Federal Government. The Federal Government should abolish our immunity! I think that's very strong! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ODP MPs.]] I would like to say that these are systematic preparatory work for the Dammbruch, which Mr Stadler fears. Because when I call upon the Federal Government with a motion for a resolution... [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have tabled a motion for a resolution and an initiative! You can choose which request you want to agree to!]] I refer to the motion for a resolution. A group which, in the matter of the House itself, submits motions for resolutions to the Federal Government has some access to the authority: It is authoritative and authoritative. It is obviously predestined for the third Republic. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] But now to the extradition desires themselves. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Choose it! At least you agree to the proposal for an initiative!]] Mr President, I should like to thank We have tabled an own-initiative proposal, we do not believe that immunity should be abolished entirely. We think it's a very important thing. However, we have pointed out that it should no longer be possible for criminal proceedings against the honour, provided that they are private indictments, so that the immunity committee is no longer concerned with procedures such as those which are now under debate. For the judge will be able to read the law and will realize that in such a case he must not ask for it at all. We are saving ourselves unnecessary work in the committee, and we are creating legal clarity for the citizens. That's better than just a changed practice. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] It is important to me, however, that this is restricted to private creditors, for the simple reason that in this case a citizen is faced by a politician to a citizen of non-politicals or perhaps a citizen of politicians. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Citizens One!]] In any event, two civilians face the criminal court in a fair party process, and one of the two will win, and the one who wins will receive the full cost from his opponent, very much in contrast to other criminal proceedings. I don't think that's entirely irrelevant. Therefore, a person who acts as an prosecutor in a private instigator carries the full cost risk, and he will hopefully also be aware of it, while the one who stands as an accused vis-à-vis has the full chance of getting the costs replaced if he is defeated. That's a very important thing. On the other hand, law-enforced prosecutors are not in play. Now I come to speak about the specific cases. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Stadler's confused! What do you want me to do? [[Cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] He can't listen. He's not used to that. Command expenditure is probably shorter than parliamentary speeches. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come on!]] Therefore, he cannot stand to wait for a little until the appropriate arguments come. What do you want me to do? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Keep talking!]] I have 20 minutes to talk. If I want to, I can use it all the time. It's about two cases today. In case of one... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your two-point program is Dr. Haider!]] Don't be rude! [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler, don't be rude! Dr. Haider's not a party program, that would be really bad, you're right. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're only against Dr. Haider!]] Haider as a party program would be really bad. It's almost insulting in itself. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] If you call Haider poor from your wait, that's interesting. If Haider were our program, it would be annoyed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your party program is pathetic!]] Stadler doesn't know. The leader is not there, and he has no instructions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Calculated Volker speaks of the "leader"!]] We have two cases on the table here: In one case, it is a lupen-clean private debt offence. I believe that in this crime we are absolutely able to agree to extradition. [[Abg. May. Stadler: As a Volker I would be very quiet in your place!]] Dearest Stadler! Liding is your own, standing for yourself is My! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] In one case, it is a lukewarm private debt offence, and that is why our group will, of course, agree to this extradition because it corresponds exactly to the spirit of our constitutional amendment. In the second case, however, a prosecutor's proceedings have turned aside, regretting that the private prosecutor, Dr. To one of them, has granted the authority to prosecute the prosecutor. This empowerment changes the entire quality of the procedure – not of the offence, but of criminal proceedings – because it is no longer a private indemnity, but it has the character of an official offence. These are two facts. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Chairman of the Committee has not yet understood this!]] But that's inseparable. You know very well that this is inseparable. One of these is the accusation of an outlawed punishment, nor of a prison that does not exist at all. That's the private debt crime. The second accusation was the accusation of the suppression of the file. And the latter, unfortunately, has now been given an official character by the empowerment. That is why our group does not see itself in a position to agree on extradition in the second case. Because there is an usual cross-border crossing. If the prosecutor's office appears on the indictment page, then it is not a private indictment in the formal sense, and for this reason we cannot agree under any circumstances, because we believe that this would actually mean a evasion of practice in the sense of Dammbruch, and there we are not willing to go along. We believe, however, that it would be time for our own initiative proposal to be dealt with as quickly as possible and made available for decision, because then legal certainty and clarity would be established. Whoever this is too complicated, I would like to write to him in the root book: As an opposition party, one must be very careful in such matters if one considers that one wants to move towards more political culture. We have tried to be very careful. Mr Stadler was involved in the immunity committee, had experienced the discussion there, but apparently she had forgotten it, or she did not influence him because it was not intended in his regular role. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unlike you, I dealt with the act! You're talking about things you don't understand!]] I would like to ask you to make a precise distinction: If the trial on the prosecutor is under way, our group will not agree. In the case of private funds, we believe that Article 57 should be amended. Why should the practice not go ahead with this? – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e8740	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e8761	Mr President. High house! I have here an APA announcement from today, according to which the Burgenland "F" Klubobmann Rauter was sentenced to compensation by the Oberlandesgericht Wien. This case is known in Burgenland. It was about the fact that after a discussion between the clubmen, Mr Rauter, a newspaper was published in which there was a caricature on which two sows, namely the clubman of the SPÖ and the clubman of the ÖVP, were rubbing on a tree. This includes: "What bothers the oak when the sow rubs on it?" – This was perceived as insult, and Mr Rauter has been condemned today. If you look down a bit in history, you find some such cases, and it's funny that they come from the same corner again and again. There is already a book about such verbal attacks, which is called "Tag Haider", in which Haider's attacks have been summarized since 1986. For example, there you can read that Haider Zernatto called a liar and a contract breaker. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right, too!]] About Mr. Josef Cap said to Mr. Haider – I quote the "standard" of the 18th century. Feber – "He has more around the neck than in the brain and is an unlit appearance and a poor candlelight." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's right, too!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: They have become a very small handful of socialists!]] Mr. Haider! Mr Stadler! Can you listen to me? – If you were to withdraw a schilling for any unqualified statement you have made today, you would now have to apply for emergency aid. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I listened to you, and I hope you listen to me too! – Mr. Haider called the ÖVP Burgenland in a liberal press service even a blind intestine of the state government, which is constantly irritable and useless. These examples could, of course, be added. They're not invented stories, they're true. In most cases, there is a person at the centre, namely Dr. Haider. It's already everyday. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are talking about things you have no idea!]] It is not a coincidence that this Dr. Haider is always at the centre of attention, because his statements – and this can be understood – contribute to the radicalisation of the language and thus to the radicalisation of politics. It is no coincidence that we are discussing today about two or – so that you do not correct me – three requests concerning the extradition of Haider here. The third or fourth case – already stressed by my previous speakers – has been withdrawn. You can only ask yourself: Is that really the tactics of the liberals? Because if you look at this Dr. Michael Rockenschub, a Federal Councillor, then you have the presumption that he is probably also one of those who give you, Dr. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is unpleasant for you!]] Haider, I guess you're good. For otherwise he would not have withdrawn his complaint! The same tactics are applied time and again: You try to construct a Lex Haider to distract you from the real problems. The liberals are just masters of the distortion of the situation. You know exactly that we discussed a change of behaviour in the Committee a year and a half ago. It has already been found in the last legislative period that there must be no damage to individuals in the protection of immunity. A similar procedure was discussed in detail in the last immunity committee from three to six o'clock in the early morning and before the plenary session. The solution that we are now taking is, of course, a narrowing of non-professional immunity, which we have also stated in a committee statement. We are in favour of dealing with various paragraphs, namely Sections 111, 113, 115 and 152, in such a way that, in the event of a breach of these, every person or parliamentarian, whether he is called Haider or otherwise, will be delivered in the future. Why did we come to this attitude? – Most of the cases focus on the paragraphs relating to evil renunciation. This can also be proven statistically: ==References== For example, in 31 out of a total of 35 cases, the legislative period involved gross reluctance, in the XVIII. The legislative period was 21 out of 28 and so on. As chairman of the Committee, I therefore strongly reject the accusation that it is a Lex Haider today and here in this case. This Committee will be able to meet all 183 colleagues in the future, regardless of whether or not it is independent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also reject the accusation, Mr Stadler, that the SPÖ's ÖVP has come to an end. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course! It's a permanent state with you!]] This procedure was already discussed very intensively under the committee chairman Dr Maitz at the time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are the agents of the socialists!]] One has already agreed on a change at the time. The practice of immunity has now changed over time, and one cannot see this immunity as a protective shield for slanders of any kind. When you ask what actually meant by immunity, you find out: This institution goes back to the monarchy. At that time, the position of Members was not as it is today. In 1979 there was a legal change to strengthen professional immunity, and in the 1960s extra-vocational immunity had already been reduced. It is therefore quite logical for the spirit of time to be re-examined and restricted in accordance with the extra-professional immunity. It is not to be seen why various privileges should prevail over the citizens. It is the liberties who always cry out for a loss of privilege, but when it comes to narrowing their own privileges in the field of immunity, there is a loud cry. That's inconsistency! There I am in good company with Günther Traxler of the "Standard", who writes – I quote –: "Only as sad can one feel the outrage that the liberal clubman Ewald Stadler now commits, not only because his partyobmann is – late enough – the reason for this change in course in terms of immunity. That the liberals want to permanently abolish all privileges, but always brand their abolition as scandals, when it is one they benefit from, belongs to the ritual." . Then to speak of a political free will, of course, is lacking in any reality. Because you asked, Mr Stadler, in your comments: Where are the little citizens? I ask you: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where are they?]] How many citizens do they trust to take such steps against these powerful ones? [[Abg. May. Stadler: We didn't mean her!]] They have objected in the Committee that anyone can complain of civil law. – Yes, who is already bringing a civil lawsuit when it involves legal fees, the risk and so on? This may be easier for the liberals, because if such processes are lost, there is still a social fund from which one can draw, just like in Burgenland. [[Call to the liberals:Haha!]] There are enough examples from the past that one could cite how individuals are defamated by a party. The Doralt case has already come up today. There are other cases, such as that of a folk school director from Krenglbach near Wels, and other cases more. The second case is a special case in which the prosecutor's office has also been used, we cannot influence the Committee. I would just like to point out, Mr Kier: This is the same thing. You can't even be against it and you can't even be against it the second time. That is why we are in favour of a change in practice. We want to do this once in a while and see what comes out of it. We are in favour of a clear line, namely for the Committee's determination to apply for extradition in certain offences. On the other hand, it remains reserved for the Committee to examine each individual case in detail. I think this step was necessary. It is an opportunity to take action against the radicalization of the language. In dealing with people with each other, the basic principle must be that a Member should not be made better than any other citizen. We shall therefore vote in favour of the two Committees.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e8932	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e8954	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The action of the two government parties on immunity is a sign of weakness. The fact that you are not taking sufficient care to do so has made it clear to you that Mr Kier, who has tried to take a differentiated position both in the Committee and here in the House of Speakers, has taken a clear view. You didn't want to redefine immunity. Nor did it concern you to discuss how to make this Federal Constitutional Law more efficient. There are various practices in Western democracies in relation to immunity, and we could have discussed them. But you – and this is where Mr Stadler is right – wanted to impose a penalty on Mr Haider this time. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka's speech was significant: He speaks of an act of equality. He asks: What's against it when the culprit Haider is in court? It is no longer even trying to find here formally correct the term which would be appropriate in this case, in a discussion which is extremely sensitive. Mr Kier! They misestimate the situation: It is an inhibitory swelling that has been exceeded. I can recall many discussions on immunity here in the House. There have been very strong discussions about this, for example, in connection with the demonstrations and seat strikes of the Greens on the Pyrn motorway, where the justice spokesman of the ÖVP has already voted in favour of extradition, where Mrs Hubinek has already voted as the second president for extradition. We already have the question at that time: What does immunity mean? This is the first time that we have been discussing this issue. The fact is that the government parties always feel that immunity is exploited, abused. Ladies and gentlemen! They take the view that they can assess whether something is actually an insult, whether something is actually a crime that has exceeded the limits of political correctness. Ladies and gentlemen! How do you want to judge that? – The example Peter shows what is coming to us. Is it true in the future that you can no longer say in a discussion: That's fascism? Is it true in the future that this type of dispute, even if it is fought hard, ends before the judge? Is that your wish? Is that your idea of democracy? You think because Haider abuses immunity, you can partially abolish it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a sign of incredible weakness. They do not come to the idea in other areas, for example, of abolishing freedom of the press. How often the press freedom of journalists is abused! How often people in all public are being written down in the newspapers, brought down, humiliated, insulted in their honor! But they do not come to the idea – rightly not, rightly not – of restricting freedom of the press, of giving up freedom of the press only in the approach. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not yet!]] They believe that Haider abuses immunity. I agree with this accusation; it applies in many areas. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (the "profile" of this week raised) Vranitzky – the freedom of the press! That's incredible!]] Haider repeats all too often accusations, although he has already been sentenced in court to stop saying this or that because he knows he is immune. But why is this House, ladies and gentlemen, why do you, as a majority, have to give right to the Haider? Because he abuses immunity, you become a killer in terms of immunity! The brake threshold is exceeded, Mr. Kier. You've experienced it yourself. They have tried to change the Constitutional Law with a very differentiated request, to discuss how we could become more credible in the issue of immunity, so that we can defend this privilege, which I think is a privilege of the people, also in the public. Ladies and gentlemen! What is it about? – Mrs Petrovic does not attack Immuno AG in full force because, as a private person, she simply feels like attacking Immuno AG – or the industry that blows all kinds of poisons into the environment. This is not her private pleasure, but she has been elected by green voters to fight against such industries that do business without regard to losses. If you want this protection to be lifted, because you think you have to hand over Mr. Haider, Mr. Schieder... [[Abg. Dispenser: He will not fall below it at all!]] [[Abg. Dispenser: He will not fall below it at all!]] That was the real reason, Mr. Schieder! You have been sitting in the Committee on Immunities, and you have noticed in your unhappiness that it has been your sole concern to give Mr Haider a message about it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Exactly! Of course!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One can secretly feel joy from it, private – but politically this is a serious mistake in this house! Politically, this is a Vandalen act you're doing here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Kier, once again: Your efforts in honor, but you have noticed from your remarks that this kind of differentiation in relation to immunity is not required here. Not the small, poor citizen who cannot defend himself was the reason for changing the practice of immunity, not the small folk school teacher or the small citizen A or X – no, the great publisher Fellner and, admittedly, the poor, small One in the Federal Government were the occasions to change the practice of immunity. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] It is simply a political sense to give Haider the opportunity to play the martyr as well. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this case, ladies and gentlemen, you are lucky because the Boulevard press and public and public opinion are driving exactly on this line, but you forget that you were also in opposition once, and you forget that there may be times when you will be in opposition again. And then there will be another immunity practice. For the Greens, this way of abolishing protection means that we must increase our budget in relation to lawyers' costs. I remember very well: I said a similar sentence in connection with the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung); it gave me a big opinion in 1987: Wabl's supposed to be on the AIDS test. Wabl has had contact with prostitutes and intoxicated diseases and is therefore intended for the AIDS test. And I've allowed myself to say in my excitement: This is Nazi journalism. I got right in the first instance, getting right in the second instance. In the third instance, the "Kronen-Zeitung" won, because the Supreme Court said: There is no proof of truth at all, that is an insult in itself. And that costs hundreds of thousands of schilling. The "Kronen-Zeitung" has no problem defending itself. If the "Kronen-Zeitung" had lost, she would have given the Wabl a good deal in the next article. This is what you do here, ladies and gentlemen: You believe that because you are personally decent and act personally in the choice of words, you will not be able to do so. – She will meet next time the political situation gets worse by simply accusing any large company that she is doing business at the expense of the disease of fellow humans. And then I'll ask you: What's wrong with that? Then I ask you: What's wrong with that? What's wrong with that? You know very well that the politician in Austria has to say all too often things, where he does not have all the evidence in his hand, because he just has to pre-trace himself in an area over which the coat of silence has been covered all too long. And only this courage, which is only possible because the honourable Member is immune, only this courage enables the detection of great scandals. What you have demonstrated today is going to break up a piece of democratic culture. I'll tell you: You are playing Mr Haider in your hands, and I hope that in a year you may think differently about it. We would have been very pleased if you had discussed the proposals made by the Greens in connection with immunity. What would it have been if we had thought about introducing a practice similar to that in France, that we should try very well to allow a procedure – but not at the expense of the honourable Member, not at the expense of economic existence, but to clarify who is right to call on an instance that says: That's right, or that's wrong. – Wanted to do so You don't even talk about it. You were sure the "Kronen-Zeitung", the "Kurier", "Die Presse", "The Standard" are on your side, and Mr. Haider – that is the right victim. Ladies and gentlemen! You yourself have become a victim today, and I hope you will still think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9085	Mr. Dr. Salzl referred to an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. Time limit: 3 minutes. Please begin with the presentation of the claim you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9109	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to an APA report from today, Mr Steindl said that Dr Rauter was sentenced to a penalty of 20 000 s for the veneration of honour. This claim is incorrect. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Something wrong again!]] Rather, I quote this APA message here, literally: "VP-Klubobmann Kaplan had sued the F-Politics after a caricature appeared in the 'Burggen news' for honorary abuse. Rauter himself was acquitted by this accusation." [[Movement with the liberals.]] Either Mr Steindl cannot read – or he deliberately twists the facts here!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9164	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. From now on: 10 minutes-reading time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9185	Mr President. High house! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Perhaps the Glasskin Group on the right of this House could give a little attention to the speaker at the speaker's desk here, because Mr Mag too. Stadler can – perhaps – learn nothing from me legally, but perhaps gain some moral points for further life and further dealing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the situation that has existed before I came to the speaker's desk here that immunity is completely out of the question because there is the possibility – Mr Salzl has done this here, I cannot judge whether this has actually happened or whether the correction is actually correct... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can still read the APA message, right?]] I cannot judge this, Mr Haider, but there is the possibility here in the House to react immediately to such things, to make an actual correction, but there is not the possibility of an actual correction if you move from the leather. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why? The "poor" One can take the floor at any time!]] However, there is not the possibility of an actual correction if, in the last few years to which I belong to the House and also to the Committee on Immunities, you are almost an item on the agenda in each meeting, where you, Mr Dr. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Think of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cot!]] Haider, on a regular basis, is the reason for Members of this House to sit down in the Committee on Immunities and discuss immunity, to talk about immunity. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So what? At least you have something to do! You're paid for it!]] We have other things to do, Dr. Haider! We would rather take care of other things! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't you have lawyers who understand something about it? Send a lawyer! Send the marsupials, at least they're familiar with bombs!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Mag. Stadler! You will not succeed in turning me away from my concept! In the meantime, I could see that there are differences between lawyers and lawyers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it's more appropriate for you to go to the other category! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (a hand to the ear) What was it now?]] If, in recent years, the Immunities Committee has always had to deal with Mr Haider, this is an argument from the table, which today was regularly held by the Glasskinn Group by the right-wings of this House, whether in interlocutory calls or here from the speaker's desk. You want to make this change a Lex Haider, you want to make Haider a martyr. But with this you also want to force the House to make a change in any way in no month of the year, at no meeting this year or in the current years of a legislative period, because Haider was constantly a case of the agenda, and thus it would always be a Lex Haider. This would have been the case in the past and will be the case – I am convinced – in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we're here today, Mr. Mag. Stadler tried to clarify that it is such a terrible thing, what is happening here, that this "poor" Mr. Dr. Haider – and, Mr. Wabl, I can partially agree with you, only in one point, namely that he is really poor – now the occasion would have been discussed in the immunity committee, quite surprisingly, that the saying practice – Mr Mag. Stadler would have liked the expression "decision-making practice", he should have it, to change the decision-making practice of the Immunities Committee, that at the beginning of a legislative period, at the beginning of each legislative period, the Immunities Committee was discussed in a debate about how the Immunity Committee in the case of immunity and extradition desires is being behaved in terms of immunity, which has also happened this time, this time something that has actually been discussed in the last two years. That means, for no one – not even for Dr. Haider – it is surprising, for no one – not even for Dr. Haider – that is something that could make him a martyr. If the Lord Mag. Stadler here spoke of his motion for a resolution which is based on the abolition of immunity, that is for me the birth of pure populism. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How do you translate this? What is populism? Talk German! How do you translate this?]] Knowing that there are groups in the House who would never agree with this, one can of course demand the maximum, although one does not want to do so itself. And that's what you're trying to do to us... [[Abg. Haigermoser: An impressive speech!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mr. Haigermoser! I've been avoiding your reviews for a long time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: We will take a legal course for him!]] Then there is the situation that Mr Magist. Stadler says that it is hypocrisy, what is happening here, that almost breaks out in tears about the poor, martyr-made clubman and party president. Mr Mag. Stadler! What you have said out here today, the choice of words that you have chosen today, and what you use in your press conferences in the choice of words – I do not need it; I have the opportunity to deal with you here – is really hypocrisy compared to what you have done here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: After what?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you want to complain?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: So you don't complain?]] You are the hypocrites, and you are inspired to be a hypocrites. Do you make it voluntary, or do it on behalf of you? If you, Mr Mag. Stadler, today, have compared Dr. Haider with the dissidents, with those of whom we all knew here until recently how they were doing, I have undertaken to finish my speech by giving you, Mr Mag. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Victims of Socialism! The real-life socialism! A representative of real-life socialism!]] Stadler, say: These people who were really dissidents must be protected because they would all be ashamed to be brought into contact with the "dissident" Haider in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9443	There is a statement by Mr Dr. Haider on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. 3 minutes of time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9465	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grad well here has made the claim that I am constantly on the agenda of this House on immunity matters. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (turned to SPÖ) This is a lawyer who understands something – unlike your speakers!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I'll put it right: That's wrong. I am not constantly on the agenda, but only on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9517	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9539	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What we are experiencing and what you deserve with gladness is certainly not an hour of parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is indeed true that the hatred of the lips of one speaker or another makes a fretling, and the hypocrisy that is presented out here is truly not to be surpassed, ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] And then a committee chairman goes out and reads from an APA report something that is already being disproved at the time of the correction. I'm waiting for him to go out and correct again – and it's not happening. I must therefore assume that what you have brought here as chairman is not true. Hatred by the lips of one speaker or another, all of you are holy together, and then things will come out that are opposed in the next second! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You hit the Haider – but in reality you meet the opposition, and you want to do so, I am firmly convinced! And with the opposition you will also encounter parliamentarianism and democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: You are democrats!]] There you go, Koppler, between what you want. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: There's talk!]] I'm a polite person: I'm saying "coupling," I'm not saying "plaring in between," as your clubman Kostelka said to the opposition. I'm not saying "plaring in between." That was the expression of Kostelka – then he saw that he was going on; probably he was generating for his hateful expressions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Parliamentary immunity – as I feel slightly different from that of my group – is a necessity for the opposition to be able to articulate without delay. It is also true that it has not always been the liberals who have employed the Committee on Immunities and subsequently the plenary in this way. It was at times when the ÖVP was in opposition, the ÖVP who was working on the immunity committee. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm going back to the statistics on this, even if some of the parties concerned may not like to hear it. Let's go back: When was ÖVP the last time in the opposition? At the time of the small coalition. Who was the target of extradition then? Eleven against the People's Party, four against the liberals and one against the socialists, as they then called. That is, not the one who is free, invites the extraditional desires upon himself, but the one who is in opposition, it is necessary for him to be able to articulate himself indefinitely, and the powerful are the ones who strive to pass over him. So is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! That's what we need to recognize! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Get the statistics out of here! At the time, there were names like Graff and Bergmann, who have employed the Committee, namely, more than that today, Haider, Meischberger or others. It's a story that's baffling. I would like to save many of them to recall how the expressions were made by Graff, who at that time employed the courts, the immunity committee and the plenary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Mr Wurmitzer, I would like to make it clear to you that it is not a praise for the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also peculiar to hypocrisy, if one here is the "private person" who has to be able to defend himself and the "little citizen". My previous speaker Wabl mentioned it: A year or so ago, for the first time, the debate had been about changing the decision-making practice in the Committee. At the time, there were two very "small, poor private persons" who had been private prosecutors, who had gone about, persons who could not defend themselves, who are quite inferior to a Member about: One was the powerful company Immuno – that has already been mentioned – and the other was not exactly weak "curies". In the present case, it was the media sar and editor of several leaves, including the powerful "NEWS", Fellner, and a minister and MP at the same time; I do not currently see anyone on the government bank or on the parliament, but he is a minister on the one hand and a parliamentarian on the other. He is said to be so inferior to another Member who says something about him! Stay with the truth! Be open! Call the child by name! Tell us you want to bend us! Tell me you want to intimidate the opposition! Admit that you want to threaten! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But don't come with the "poor little" citizen who can't defend himself, but if you look closer, Immuno, Fellner, "Kurier" or Federal Minister and Deputy One. Please stick to openness and the truth! Furthermore, don't pretend that non-delivery here in the house is equivalent to everything done. Please also admit to the public that this means only "rejected" at all times. If today there is a desire for extradition here in the house and the honourable Member is not extradited, then the matter has been postponed; there is no limitation or similar. At some point, every one of us, if he does not die before, is no more Members, and then he has saved all these procedures, and the worse he has been, the more he has on his neck. Then he can try to defend himself. That means that this right is not at all a right of the individual Member, but a right of the House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This right only means that the person concerned does not have things on his neck at the time when he is a Member, but when he is no longer a Member. And most of us are entitled not to come to the cemetery before, but to experience it. Let us stay with what some predecessors have mentioned: The private contribution due to the abuse of honor has become unmodern. It is hardly applied anymore, not only because of immunity, but because it hurts too little; it costs too little. However, I am reminded that a St. Pöltner builder has sued a well-known journalist for revocation, indemnity and damages. And I believe that I am not mistaken when I now say that the dispute value is in the order of 1 billion schilling. – The otherwise quite provocative journalist has been silently silent; he has had to keep silent. This is the modern form of intimidation also of freely elected people's representatives. They're being sued before the civil court. That's the danger we're all faced with. The Bundesbahn or similar institutions, which cannot be described as impoverished, act as complainants, and they intimidate the most courageous Members through high financial demands they make in the civil field. [[Abg. Nuremberger: Have you ever been sued?]] I've been sued once. I've been here in the house for 17 years. Dear Nuremberg! I haven't got a call for order in this house yet. Once I was accused by a very poor, very weak and very unfortunate community of persons: by the national party board of the ÖVP Lower Austria. They were all "poor", and no one was able to help. That's how it was. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What I can't understand at all is that you say: We deliver for a certain period of time, but only for crimes of honour. – This is perverse, ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, because of a delinquency group which is located quite below in its social damage, is it not to be extradited because of serious major things? Watergate, for example, would not land before the courts or other serious offences. But one who says to another – what I would condemn and not say –: "You fool!", will be delivered, whereas, as in the case of Watergate, one who breaks into the political opponent's party and steals documents there would not be delivered after this decision. It must be kept in mind once! [[Calls of the Abg. Swim and wormsman.]] That must be kept in mind! That's why you want to meet the opposition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You want to be reserved whether or not other crimes, in case of real, criminal offences, are delivered. This fits perfectly into the system: The right to vote has been changed before two elections. At that time they said: The two or three mandates that this will bring to the powerful do not matter. They've played a role in the meantime. The two-thirds majority has thus been secured. And now we can again decide constitutional laws without having to worry about whether they violate the Constitution. [[Abg. Schwemlein: Do you want to accuse the voters that wrong elections have been taken?]] Here you can limit the speaking time. We now hear that in some cases it should be reduced to five minutes. You'll be three minutes soon. One wants to achieve that polite representatives of the opposition only have the time to get out and say: "Mr. President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen!" and: "Thank you for your attention." That's one. The other is the tone and the mimik, with which Members like Kostelka talk here in the house to other freely elected peoples: provoking, hateful, and "this smile"...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9702	Deputies! Your speaking time is over. Please pay attention to this!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9723	... to smile and not to be afraid of the threats that come upon them.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9760	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9781	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have just experienced an example of how to interfere with actual corrections to wipe out facts. The APA message was: Heading: "Unfortunately, ÖVP club chief Kaplan insulted. By the Oberlandesgericht Vienna, sentenced to a fine of 20 000 S." Text: "On Wednesday, in an appeal hearing at the Oberlandesgericht in Vienna, the Burgenländer FPÖ was sentenced to a compensation payment of 20 000 S to the Klubobmann of the ÖVP-Burgenland. Kaplan wants to make this money available to a social purpose." – He wants to provide it with an actual social purpose, a real social purpose. This is not so understandable in Burgenland! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Rauter has been acquitted!]] Mr. Rauter is the chairman of the Freedom Party in Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read on!]] Rauter is the chairman of the Freedom Party in Burgenland and the editor and owner of this newspaper. That is why these newspapers and Mr Rauter have been condemned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] All right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] That's right, formal. Rauter has been acquitted personally, but has been condemned as the owner and owner. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Volume is not an argument, but only testifies to weakness, gentlemen of the "F"! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Say about the "day mail"!]] [[Calls and calls to the liberals and to the ÖVP.]] Now it's getting more interesting. You're threatening for the second time that you're trying to put something on me. Do it at last! Trust yourself at last! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Let's talk about the "Tagespost" now!]] Yes, I do. What are you threatening? [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] No one should be able to pretend that our attitude is new. Prost, Mr Colleague, Prost. There's an axe out there. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Tagespost!]] For almost a year and a half, I have been a member of the Immunities Committee. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Answer the question!]] Ask me a question, and I'll answer it! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Hate and Mr. Hohn of this Parliament are trying again to be slanderous and filthy of this Parliament; the duo "Hate and Hohn"!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9941	Deputies! You're talking alone! I ask you, however, to be a little more careful in the choice of words!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e9956	In December 1994, we clarified the new practice of extradition in the event of honorary insults. ==References== In January 1995, I made a literal presentation of the extradition practice now decided on in the Committee, which is to be read in the minutes. ==References== In March 1995, I fixed the text in writing and tried to reach agreement in talks with representatives of all parties. This agreement has not been reached, and therefore we have on 11 November. In October 1995 in the ÖVP Club, the decision was taken to extradite in the case of acts of honour. This means that the representatives of the People's Party will in future vote in favour of extradition on all extradition requests as far as honorary policies are concerned. Dr. Haider! So much for the mischievous attempt of the Lord Mag. Stadler describes the new decision-making self-binding of the majority of this Parliament as an attack and arbitrary one. – It was an unsuitable attempt. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He wrote this part of the speech himself!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] You find this funny, but you will still be laughing! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're going to lose your laugh!]] From now on, all Members of this House must be responsible for the conduct of honorary acts carried out outside this Parliament by each of us also before the criminal court. For example, if, like Dr. Haider, those who use the method of political propaganda in election events in a way that is unrestrained and continued, they must stand for it in the future. For example, if, like Dr. Haider, he commits reputational murder to fellow citizens with smooth untruths, then he will have to do so in the future. [[Abg. Böhacker: Cite the Tagespost!]] For example, those who – like Dr. Haider – enter the personal integrity of fellow citizens with their feet must stand for it in the future. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I'll talk about it soon! For example, those who, like Dr. Haider, make verbal hunting for diligent and decent citizens with insults, insults, ridicules, ridicules, ridicules, etc. will have to stand up for them in the future! [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, the One!]] They want concrete examples. Dr. Haider! They have defamed the folk school director Herbert Klepp – which has already been mentioned in this House today – as a sower. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He never complained!]] They could defamate him as a sower, because the immunity still exists. In the future, you can complain to someone who is so offended. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Civil law!]] They have presented to the senior employees of the Landeskrankenkasse Salzburg, Dr. Helmut Neuhofer, as Schmarotzer and as one who, together with his wife, draws from tournament to tournament and gets his pension wrong. – You know just as well as I do, Dr. Haider, that this man is leukemia sick, so sick and his wife suffers from multiple sclerosis, so MS is ill if that tells you something. [[Abg. Böhacker: Is that in the Tagespost?]] These people who have to be insulted by you and all over the country, for example, are the citizens we want to protect from you. That's what we want! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now you also defend a red one!]] For example, Professor Doralt, although a court had already challenged you, has repeatedly brought you into contact with criminal brothers. We want to prevent cases like this from happening in the future. I lost myself a friend who was an artist a few years ago. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Let me talk to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Speak calmly!]] He had a blood disease, he had leukemia. I visited him almost daily in the three weeks before his death and saw how this man died. – Whoever drives a frivolous political spectacle with the fate of such people suffering from a blood disease, as do you, Dr. Haider, who acts inhumanely! A politician in a high position who acts like you, Dr. Haider, has lost every moral claim for me and has played any moral skills! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That doesn't say anything!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: They're saying, "Smoker"!]] This is an expression of you that I need never apologize to you! Never! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It is therefore necessary to clarify: In the future, citizens will be able to defend themselves against being cut off, Mr. Dr. Haider, and this right is a real, good, new civil right. [[Abg. Aumayr: To a year!]] And of course we will continue to do so, and you will also confess to it! Verbal aggressors cannot be re-styled to victims, Mr Mag. Stadler! [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about the "fuckers"?]] That's really you! [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] That's clear, no problem! There can be toughest material criticism – even without inadvertent insults. But if you do, we will enable the citizens concerned to defend themselves. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You probably didn't hear everything because of your constant in-between cry! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] We will enable citizens to resist the constant abuses of Mr Haider and Mr Stadler, the "Hate and Hohn" duo of this Parliament. That's what it's all about!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10225	Mr. Dr. Maitz! I'm giving you a call for order because of the use of the word "smoker". At the same time, however, I would like to point out that the use of this word justifys the use of non-equivalent intermediate calls from the speaker's desk. The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10259	Mr President. I would ask you to stop the clock only once I have spoken!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10274	Deputies! You have the word – and nobody else! Start consoling, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10301	Thank you, Mr President. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! My real disappointment is directed against Mr Rockenschub. I would have liked to have dealt with this debate today, which I consider interesting, valuable and also very important to myself, much more on the example of my friend and club colleague Helmut Peter than you, Jörg (for Abg. Dr. Haider), opposite. I will, however, try to talk about it and draw out what we have presented in our club discussions. Mr. Wabl! You have prompted me not to be removed from the list of speakers, because your statements here have not only touched me but also alerted me. I think there are some misunderstandings. We can or must accept the fact that parliamentary immunity is considered unfair in various areas, but in particular in those areas where it goes against the honor of each one. I believe that the citizens of this country have recognized the lack of equality of arms in the face of such a personal offence as unfair and in need of repair. Mr. Ofner! I cannot agree with you if you say that the social damage of this crime against honor is very far below. It seems to be true that the person concerned is worthy of this honor. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is common doctrine! You should take a textbook to hand again!]] Mr. Stadler! Call outside, please! [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Call outside, Mr. Stadler! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can talk where I want if you allow!]] I know, but you always talk! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Dr. Ofner! It will depend on how the person concerned evaluates his honor and how much he is personally affected, and I think that is why it is not permitted, even if the legal interpretation is so, to do so and to say: A crime against honor has a very low social damage. This is, in my view, an argument that should not fall in this House. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I'll explain this to you!]] Thank you many times, my colleague. I am always grateful to you! In addition, I believe that a debate on whether immunity is still timely would be allowed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] I believe, Mr Wabl, that we can talk about it. But I also believe that you have to distinguish when you say that I have had a trial against the Immuno and against "Kurier" and other overpowered economic opponents or they would have threatened with it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Also against a construction company!]] Of course, at least a certain risk would be involved in a process against a strong construction company. But that was not a crime against honor, but it was a business-damaging offence. And we have excluded them for this reason, because in this case there would not be the same level of arms in the opposite sense. If a parliamentarian insults a person, regardless of whether he values the honor or not, whether it is teaching or not: This is not correct and not fair, apart from the fact that it would also be punishable. I think that's where we have to sit. On the other hand, we do not see a business-damaging remark like that. In this case, we have said – in consideration of the goods – that it must remain immunity. Mr. Wabl! I think that this argument could or should you join us! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] I also believe that it is not a culprit against the opposition that is going on here, so to speak, with the abolition of immunity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Is it possible to say that the blind man stops somewhere?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10437	Deputies! You can be calm! I'll deal with you already.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10461	Thanks a lot! I am very nervous about the idiosyncrasy, Mr President. You know that anyway. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't you have good nerves?]] I have very good nerves, Mr. Stadler! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The abolition of immunity for these criminal acts is not a culprit against the opposition. But it could be a star hour, Mr Dr. Ofner, for this Parliament if we Members volunteer to make this equality and make the weapons and arguments on these points voluntarily. That would be a star hour of Parliament! Dr. Ofner! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Furthermore, you have not understood that we are not seeking to ensure that comments from this speaker's board are not protected by immunity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] I don't need to say: "Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen!" and: "Thank you many times." I can say anything at the speaker's desk. Here I am always immune according to our proposal. You don't understand our proposals! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In addition, I believe that honour belongs to a Mr Fellner, a verbal school director and also to a minister – whether you appreciate it or not. Honor is for every human being, not just a category of people. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We believe – and this is especially true of you, Mr Steindl – that it is not correct, not correct, nor forward-looking, if you say here: "The practice should be changed" and – as you have literally said: "This is a scheme that could make all 183 in the future." We don't want room! It must not only be able to meet, but it must be met or not met. But you must not say: It could hit anyone. We therefore believe that consideration must not be possible. Mr Wabl also referred to this by saying: They take the view whether it is an insult or not. We are not of this opinion. We believe that we must change the law, and we have tabled a corresponding proposal so that this scope and this interpretation – today it is Haider, unfortunately not Peter, tomorrow it is another – is not possible. On the following, ladies and gentlemen, we will be clear: There is no room for discretion for a Parliament – as it is composed of – on this issue. With regard to crimes against honor, this existing law is outlawed. I therefore hope that the party, which is in favour of withdrawing immunity as a whole, will be able to take at least one small step with us and agree to our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10555	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10577	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. Hazelsteiner, you can truly never have a trial against a large construction firm and never found anything in the exercise of your free mandate. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's another crime!]] For you have obviously not understood that the Greens – Mr Wabl has explained this very long and clearly before – certainly want to do the following: We want to have a discussion in this House on immunity, on the immunity law and on its effectiveness and on the development of the relevant provisions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, some have already noted this before, the historical foundations have changed substantially. In my preparation for this debate, I have already found an interesting, only short article by Professor Welan in the "Kurier" from 1988, in which he, under the title "External professional immunity is obsolete, and professional immunity is obsolete" has thought a brief plea for a rethinking of immunity. He spoke of the value of immunity for a Member and a Member of Parliament today. He did not ignore the point of view that there has also been a change in society and in Parliament, which is why this law must be discussed, which is why it needs modernisation. No Greener has ever said – even in the last legislative period in similar discussions – that everything should remain the same as it is, nothing needs reform. I believe that, above all, the principle of the free mandate should be undisputed by all in the House. I understand that professional immunity complements the principle of free mandate. The debate today has shown quite clearly that opposition and government have different views on this point. Mr Ofner, in his words, tried most impressively to show me what it means, as a Member of Parliament, to be exposed to the opposition of a situation in which we do not have the general right to comprehensive information, such as members of the government or majority groups, when it comes, for example, to doing what is our duty to control the administration. – If we are still trying to carry out this duty, there is a case for credit damage quickly! Andreas Wabl has shown this very clearly in his example: If a stronger one – a Goliath – has the choice between a civil law and a criminal act against a Member, he logically chooses all the civil law actions, for this really hurts the opposition. In case of a complaint concerning credit damage, ladies and gentlemen, the dispute may be at almost infinite heights, for example, when it comes to the reputation of an Immuno, a construction company Illbau AG, the "Kurier" – this is a fictitious case for Dr. Haselsteiner – or the "NEWS" empire. In such cases, the dispute is in unprecedented heights, and there is no immunity to the honourable Member – regardless of whether majority or opposition members. This discussion was started in the last legislative period here, that it is said that this is also part of the free mandate and the free exercise of our duties, our profession. On the one hand, there is a need for a reform, a modernisation of the immunity law, and on the other hand, the need to remove borders. There is no more talk of this in this causa today. Here, on the occasion of the case of "small" citizen Fellner against "small" citizens of sharks and "small" citizens One against "small" citizen Haider, precisely on the occasion of these cases now a reverse of extradition or persecution practice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These "small" citizens, who really regret me – both the "small" citizen of Haider, the Bärental owner, and the "small" citizen Fellner, the owner of a media empire. This is really a proposed argument to mention today that it is about protecting the small citizen from slander and against bad speech. Absolutely not! Because, ladies and gentlemen, when it was really about the little ones, you didn't need these arguments here. The following is still to be noted, including those who have not engaged in this debate, and now keep in mind the decision taken by the majority of the Committee. That which has always been the subject of immunity has all been just a obstacle to persecution, a procedural obstacle to persecution. Each person shall be entitled to the persecution at any time from the date on which his mandate expires. This has never been the subject of discussion. This is just a delay in not running the risk of being mouth-deaded. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: If you do not see today the need for these instruments to essentially serve the purpose of articulate opposition or minority – when it comes to majority relations – and that the essential part of the free mandate is, then, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, you will at least see this at a time when you might be exposed to this gag, which is now primarily exposed to the opposition, if you are members of an opposition group. You'll see that at the latest. I would argue that, on the occasion of this debate today, this discussion process should be carried out seriously and that the reform of immunity should start to be seriously discussed, so that this House does not become the accusation of the case law – in this case: In future, ladies and gentlemen, changes in practice will have to be suspended, because the essential instruments that are part of parliamentarianism, which are essential to the protection of the profession of mandaters, of free mandates, are being removed. For this is not only about freedom of speech, but it is also about not losing courage and not being restricted by such things. That is why, like the other colleagues in the Green Group, I too will not agree to the extradition of Dr. Haider in these two cases – but not because I would ever have liked Dr. Haider in my life.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10618	Mr Dr. Haider spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, you have the floor, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10667	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maitz has made the claim that I would have discriminated against the former director of the Salzburg regional health fund, Dr Helmut Neuhofer, by wrongfully accusing him of his illness. That's wrong. I always have reference to the documentation of the trade union of employees of the Austrian Social Security Institutes, which in their letter of 20 June 1989. This case was described on July 15, 1993. It referred to the Directorate-General of the Pensions Insurance Institute by the former Director-General of the Salzburg Regional Hospital and requested a review because he found that the Dr. Neuhofer concerned had received a letter dated 18 March. January 1990 – bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the ASVG – has been put into permanent retirement. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I quote: "Director Neuhofer is in 48. Year of life and likely to be fully working again, as he conducts various sports activities, such as tennis. During the illness, he also participated in the meetings of the Board of Directors. The union therefore requires that, in the event of full employment and taking into account the low financial burden on pensioners in the public sector, it is not to be represented and responsible for continuing to grant an incapacity pension. We allow ourselves to submit the request to carry out a review of the foreact of its predecessor and also to request Dr. Neuhofer to carry out a review." [[Intrusions of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] As can be seen from the medical protocols and from the medical records, these claims made by Mr Maitz are not justified, and I therefore strongly reject this fama that arises. In this respect, there is a clear documentation of the trade union of social security workers, and this was the basis of my argumentation. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10734	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Please, you have the floor, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e10767	Mr President. High house! [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] If there would have been a need for proof today, why extradition practice is actually being changed, then Mr. Comrade Maitz has delivered it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The white hatred of persecution against the clubman of the liberals pushes him, and since he has come into this House, that is his only goal. In fact, he only reports more – as he sits – on national defence issues and immunity issues when it comes to Dr. Haider. I think it clearly documents what your goal is. Love of neighbor is unknown to you, because you give up the love of neighbor just as quickly as the immunity, that is, in the individual case. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] For this reason, the vice-president of the ÖVP, the chairman of the Committee, makes the unjust accusation of a criminal offence – including a criminal offence – against the clubman of the liberals in Burgenland, against Dr. Rauter, deliberately false, in order to give rise to impressions that were never given here. For me, this is indeed a matter of concern – even more so by a chairman of a committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But then there are also representatives of the left half of the empire who wonder that the immunity committee is dealing with immunity issues. The Equal Treatment Committee deals with equal treatment issues, namely immunity issues in the Immunity Committee. - That's just about your morals that you've given us the best. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Only the main committee is not dealt with.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But then Klubobmann Kostelka goes out here and does something really shameful: He condemns by saying, "The culprit Haider." He doesn't know a presumption of innocence, nothing at all. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: He's not a lawyer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Unscrupulous perpetrator!]] Obviously, it is also your only goal to suspend Dr. Haider from prosecution; that is your driving force. You have also documented it in detail in the press, although it was you who, in my opinion, brought violence into this house for the first time, when you were sitting here drumming with the fists. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] The colleague Mertel does not need to think about it at all: She was also on the best way to incite violence with her statements. There is the danger to the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Gudenus is not going away anymore!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has really been said by Mr Wabl and other previous speakers. It seems to be working here, with a single goal, as mentioned earlier. You are not concerned with restoring honor, because the restoration of honor can also be achieved by other means, including by drawing on the provisions of the General Civil Code. Mr Maitz said: Of course, it is very cost-intensive to lose; there is a risk of costs behind it. – But if your honor is worth something, then you take this risk of cost and you do not hide behind cheaper procedures to achieve something so that you can defamate other people in public – if you have the honour worth something, Mr. Maitz! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Personally, it would never happen to me to prosecute any Member of this House or any other citizen because of § 111 StGB. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Not!]] I would always defend myself with § 1330 ABGB. But from my professional practice I know about this cost risk, and I also advise very many clients in this direction. The path of the slightest risk of costs – even if on the other hand, "small" citizens are: Media Zampanos or just the "small" citizen One. However, it is not at all consistent with the request that the Committee on Immunities has led to a change in extradition practice. For example, I have been surprised that Mr Maitz has not been concerned about allowing extradition to occur in the event of crimes following the crime situation "injury of human dignity". Don't you consider the dignity of human beings to be a crime of honor? Is that not a follow-up? Did you forget that or did you just have the case in your eye? This can be natural, just like the Klubobmann Kostelka. But, ladies and gentlemen, what about the morale in our country when it comes to restoring honor? - There's one possibility. I've already shown it: Vienna City Councillor Edlinger has damaged me as a private person in my credit, honor and fortune. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Because you're at the FPÖ, aren't you?]] I have responded with a credit claim and I have finally received it. I took this risk of cost. City councillor Edlinger, on the other hand, did not take this risk, because what did he do? When he lost, he had the process costs replaced by the taxpayer by the city of Vienna, by the citizens! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible! This is typical socialist!]] At the request of the Magistrates Directorate, why he could do this at all, although that is not possible, then came the argument with the "small" citizen. This is where the Magistrates Directorate – I quote – writes: "... is necessary, since the city of Vienna has a duty of care towards senior employees". [[Abg. Arbitrator: (for Abg. May. Stadler turns) Why don't you have any lawyers?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He won! He's great!]] – One has to imagine this: "Precautionary care" to a private man Edlinger with an income of more than 200 000 S per month! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] It cannot take on this cost risk. That's definitely your living "moral"! [[Abg. May. Stadler: It is the question of who pays socialist processes! You're paying for the processes from Edellinger!]] It's gonna be funny if you ask: How do you actually get to replace Edlinger with the process costs, where does a budget item exist, where is there an account here for et cetera? – To this end, you will receive the following answer: No instructions were given for disbursement in the direction of a given settlement, but this matter was settled as in all other similar cases. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Talk about the matter!]] On the question in the next letter, how many such cases have occurred in the past, the Magistrates Directorate informs: none at all! – That means she's obviously lying! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That must be funny!]] It's not funny because it costs taxpayers money. And that's something I'm convinced of! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Incredible!]] Return to this case in Burgenland, where the wrong quote has been made here today. [[Abg. Asshole: Wrongly quoted he has not been!]] Who was the worthy man behind that? – Mr Kaplan, the Klubobmann of the ÖVP, who himself is not afraid of calling liberal Members as pigs, as clumsy baits, as chain dogs. [[Disadvantages with the liberals.]] That is really the case! – But Mr. Kaplan feels hurt in his honor! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's like always in this country: The powerful can judge it. And if the powerful feel hurt in their honor due to their political functions, they always suggest what the cost risk is, the "small" citizens. Thus happens through the settlement union, so happens by other companies et cetera. One is not prepared to take even the slightest risk of cost to restore honor. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If, in fact, the "small" citizens are always to be protected, then of course many today will ask how the liberals will vote. – I can tell you: Our group will vote against this motion, with the exception of Dr. Haider, because it has always been on the side of the really small citizens, also in this House. [[Abg. Leikam: This is a surprise!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11120	Mr Maitz referred to a personal response to Dr Haider's actual correction. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are limited to the facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11142	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Haider has personally accused me of untruth. So I repeat the following passage from my speech Dr. Helmut Neuhofer was defamated by Dr. Haider as a social-smaroter. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But this is not a correction!]] He's got a serious blood disease. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Where's personal concern?]] Yes, personal distress, because Dr. Haider accused me of untruth. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I can really correct everything!]] I made calls with the director of the Landeskrankenkasse Salzburg a few days ago. Both of them! – spouses currently have a very difficult to endure bitter suffering. Your personal illness has become much heavier. – You were told, Dr. Haider, that, but you continued to defame.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11217	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Mr rapporteur, would you like a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. – I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats. First of all, on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 52 of the Supplements, a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the honourable Member to the National Council of Dr. Haider, I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 52 of the additions to the official persecution of the Member to the National Council of Dr. Haider on requests from the Vienna Regional Court for Criminal Matters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. [[Abg. Dr. Haider agrees with the request.]] This request was adopted by a majority. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Haider didn't convince the "Staberl"!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We shall also vote on the request... [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't hear what we're voting on, because that's what I'm telling you right now. We now come to the vote on the request made by the immunity committee in 53 of the supplements, a link between the alleged criminal act and the political activity of the honourable Member to the National Council of Dr. Haider. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. Finally, we come to the vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 53 of the additions to the official persecution of the Member to the National Council Dr. Haider on requests from the District Courted International Market. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of a corresponding sign. This request was adopted by a majority. 6. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 124/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Special Support Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (Labour Market Policy Act 1996) (64 of the Supplements) 7. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 51/A (E) by Mr Jörg Haider and others on the promotion of the employment of older people (65 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11307	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are: Reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendments 124/A by Mrs Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and others on labour market policy law 1996 (64 of the Supplements) and 51/A (E) by Mrs Haider and others on the promotion of employment of older people (65 of the Supplements). The rapporteur on both points is Mr Dietachmayr. Mr President, I would ask you to open the debate and give your reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11331	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will return the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the request of Members Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Special Support Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (Law on the Labour Market Policy Act 1996). In order to consolidate the federal budget, savings are to be made in the field of labour market policy and measures to ensure the employment of older people. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs adopted the proposed initiative at its meeting on 8 March. ==References====External links== The amendment tabled by Mr Reitsamer and Dr Feurstein was adopted by a majority vote in the vote. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. On the other hand, the main and comrades did not find a majority. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore makes the request that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft legislation attached to the written committee report. I shall also return the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the request from Mr Jörg Haider and comrades on the promotion of the employment of older people. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs adopted the motion for a resolution at its meeting on 8 March. ==References====External links== When the vote was taken, the motion for a resolution in question did not find a majority. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore makes the request that the National Council take note of this report. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11391	Thank you for your report. The debate was limited to two "Vienna hours", so that the following general speeches were made: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 18 minutes. The first speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11419	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Today's labour market policy law 1996 is the first of a number of laws to be passed on to Austrians under the title of tax package as social changes. The basic intensification of this social law is correct: older workers who have become unemployed, who are long-term unemployed, return to working life. But as always, the devil is hidden in detail. The so-called bonus malus system, as it is foreseen, has not found the approval of our liberals in far-reaching points, which is what the Malus is about to achieve. We believe that the malus is insufficiently focused and will only serve to bring down the retirement age for very, very many workers, i.e. in German: The number of older workers released – perhaps at 43 or 45 years of age for women – will thus be increased. For male workers, this age is likely to be significantly less than 50 years old. This can already be seen from the fact that the bonus is used with a maximum of about a gross monthly reference, but that after ten years of service, the finals prescribed are threefold of them. I therefore believe that this malus system is right from the basic intensification to grant dismissal protection, but in practice – and this applies to many of the first well-informed protection provisions – a counter-productive effect for workers. Federal Minister! I would ask you, from this point of view, to introduce, immediately with the implementation of this law, accompanying control by the promotion of the labour market, which is the result of this impact, because it cannot be assumed that, although the practice outlined and feared by us will occur at the expense of the workers in the future, the legislator will not immediately provide for more labour-friendly regulations regarding their employment. At the same time, I have already stated in the Committee that the attempt to redraft and re-publish the ASVG for the citizens of that country, so that it is possible for every worker to take his/her life planning, his/her entire work planning into his/her own hands, to determine it himself, to say goodbye to this practice of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, "Sammelnovelles". Deputies Mag. Cordula Frieserund Edeltraud Gattererof the Austrian People's Party were particularly apostrophic, because they have gone into the election campaign to ensure more readable and consolidated laws in this area. What is available here today, ladies of the ÖVP, certainly does not correspond to these intentions. If one considers what we will still be in the house for this year of changes in labour law, one must say: With the same practice, we have to expect four to five ASVG novels this year. However, I do not believe that, Mr Federal Minister, it will be appropriate to enable individual workers to better plan their lives, but rather that the outpouring ASVG will become even more expansive if it continues to do so. Even the title of this law, "Labour Market Policy Act 1996", is so inconceivable that one can hardly imagine anything underneath it if one does not want to start lengthy and pointed research into individual sources. Today I have looked at a computer expression of the Institute for Social Law of the University of Vienna, which includes the individual novels that have come to us from the adoption of the ASVG to this day. Officially, we hold 53. ASVG-Novelle. In fact, this novel, which we adopt today, is actually the 120. In 1995 alone, we adopted five novels that were hidden four times in other legal acts – and this, although they had significant effects on workers whose rights and obligations were included. Federal Minister! If you are interested in ensuring clarity and greater transparency in this regard, then we should finally address this – Professor Tomandel has already called for it in 1988 to be re-enacted on the occasion of his retirement – not only verbally to make a re-codification of social law in Austria, but indeed to do so. Such a need is more urgent than ever for those who give advice in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The criticism of this legislative text was clearly and clearly formulated by us in the Committee, and speakers of the Liberal Group will then explain the various points on this subject, such as the concern of women, which are clearly and clearly disadvantaged by this new law. I would not like to say that I was disappointed that the debate on Amendment No 51/A by Mr Haider and Mr Dolinschek on promoting the employment of older people in the Committee was dealt with so briefly. Federal Minister! In particular, item 4 on leave, which we liberals have also provided for training measures for older workers, we believe should have more clearly discussed in the Committee. Just you spoke on Sunday three weeks ago. Lifelong learning and lifelong training. I therefore believe that the basic ideas that we have formulated in our proposal 51/A would have been quite a majority. I also believe that the idea of taking into account, for long-term unemployed, a corresponding remuneration by means of unemployment support for sub-group contract wages and thus reducing the proportion of additional labour costs and labour costs as a whole, but paying the worker the same wage as he is guaranteed by the collective contract, would have earned more than a sharp rejection, which meant: Where are we going to be if sub-group contract wages were to be taken out of the unemployed by means of compensatory payments! There are quite similar systems, such as those of the German army's time-consuming soldiers, who can spend the last year of work – when they refund all their salaries – in the economy when they are in their profession in final training. For example, bakers can prepare for master exams and work in the ninth service year of the Federal Army with a baker, of which only the overtimes can be paid, while all other costs carry the army where he is not. There are similar payments in other areas. I therefore believe that this would be quite a systematic consideration. I see that there are still mental reservations, but I hope that it is not the last conclusion of wisdom that one simply leaves someone in the unemployed, because the incentives for entrepreneurs to bring people back to the working world are considered to be small. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not forget that the position of work for the worker concerned does not mean merely the acquisition of bread. At the same time, it is about social position, and about being accepted in society and beyond for a few lucky people about self-realization in the working world. And this may lead to difficult mental problems. All of this, in our view, has been lacking in the present draft law. I congratulate you, Minister of State, on the fact that there are good fundamental considerations about incentives, but I would like to state clearly and clearly that this Malus block in this form is rather counterproductive. I am afraid that large companies and corporations will be placed in the accountant. Someone who at the age of 40 was lucky to get a job at a large group will now be at the end of 49. Year of life threatens termination. Because after ten years, the discharge is more than three months' salary, so there is a difference between two monthly salaries for release in the most extreme case. I believe that, in this case, bonus-making in the age-level sector, there is also a difficult time for those workers who have so far been spared from the problems of release and permanent unemployment. Federal Minister! I would urge you once again to have these arguments carefully reviewed by labour market management and, if we are right, try to make a reorganisation as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. It has not been hidden to me that you have also rethinked in the area of the SUG: You said in your speech in the Committee that what was positive was that social security should be created, then used by farmers to reduce the elderly and keep the others in operation. This system has therefore been directed against older workers, and it has therefore been properly recognized by you that there is a need for a changeover. In view of this, I believe that it is only right and cheap to have similar fears regarding the present bonus system and to follow your considerations regarding the SUG properly, in a timely manner. The purpose of this action cannot be to release workers at an earlier age and then to allow them one to two years of bridging, before being brought back into the labour market by the same groups, because they have experience and know-how, as cheaper workers. I would also like to say, Mr President, that in this area, the five minutes before the 12 regulations came, for example, for the construction industry or for tourism, are the right rules for derogations. I hope that the arrangements for the solution of the overall problem which we have adopted will have a positive effect on employees in Austria. We shall call for separate voting and will support those parts which we have supported in the Committee here in plenary. However, we will certainly not support those parts where we already fear a rather anti-employee rather than a workers-friendly trend, namely that Malus block, which we believe is not effective in this form, or which will be an improvement for employers and workers. The small and medium-sized enterprises associated with their employees will continue to retain them, but the large enterprises, where the workers are more likely to be computer and cost-effective, will previously release older workers. Federal Minister! I hope that I am not right, but my request remains to allow you to take more effective control of yourself so that, in my view, the conversion of the malus regimes that I consider to be fatal and implemented in the interests of the workers is carried out in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11540	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Older workers are an important pillar of the Austrian labour market. With their knowledge and experience, they are invaluable human capital. However, this capital is increasingly neglected and is increasingly broken at the expense of the labour market. This tendency, ladies and gentlemen, must be countered. For this reason, years ago, at the time under the Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun, various measures were taken, such as the Employment Insurance Act or the Structural Milliards, in order to obtain older workers on the labour market. These actions were very necessary and, above all, very successful. It is now necessary to react quickly and efficiently to changed framework conditions, and with the decision-making of the Labour Market Policy Act 1996 we can again contribute to the involvement of older workers. Two measures should be highlighted in particular: On the one hand, the general special support is intended to expire with appropriate transitional periods. This special support, which was originally intended and quite useful for crisis regions, has now been in place, taking into account, of course, the transitional arrangements to be decided on today. It must be said critically that, as with many measures in social policy, it has also occurred in this case in front of the board, which has resulted in an outsourcing of the costs. In many companies, even in the protected area, 2 older workers were dismantled by the crutch of the Special Support Act, without the possibility of being exposed to crisis. This possibility has been expressed very positively to those concerned and thus has a major impact on their decision. This group is also intended and must be protected by confidence, which is why accompanying measures, such as the introduction of the free-border increase in emergency aid into the permanent right and the maintenance of the possibility of transition to early retirement, are of particular importance. At first, there will also be some problems with the administration. For example, pension contributions should not be removed from the new special support schemes, but from the pension contributions granted before April 1996, so that we will have to deal with two different rules. We have then found an inadequacy which we would like to correct by means of an amendment. There is a small circle of people affected, a few months to reach 54 or 59 when unemployment benefit falls out. In the absence of a year of life, therefore, the emergency aid cover based on unemployment benefit is still to be mentioned in the law. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the so-called bonus malus system. In this case, we had to befriend ourselves with a compromise. I believe – and with this view I am in good company – that we could have set up a certain number of companies with more than 100 employees with over 50 years of age, with the quota system originally planned, which would have allowed us to do much more for the employment of older workers. We should not lose sight of the quota system. I think we're gonna need them. There were also fears that due to the fact that this bonus malus system for women as for men with the 50. Life-year starts to expect discrimination against women, because women are already forced out of the labour process in the middle of the 40 and earlier years. That's true now. But after a malus is calculated from the last reference and unfortunately women – I stress this – still deserve much less than men, this malus is also less important. On the other hand, it should also be of less interest to terminate women for precisely these reasons. Not that I consider these differences to be good, by no means. But the priority goal – and we call for this, I almost say, for ever – must be called: equal pay for equivalent work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only today did a colleague of mine say in a discussion: Why not a bonus malus system even in the case of professional discrimination against women? That's a thought that you might want to approach. But now back to the present bonus malus system: It is, as I said, not the dream solution, but a tiny step in the right direction. It is necessary to see all the measures to be taken today networked. We do something to protect older workers and to limit early retirement. However, these measures must not be seen separately from the frightening developments in the labour market. We only had such labour market collapses three times since the Second World War. At that time, however, the respective framework conditions and thus our possibilities were still different. That is why I am very glad, ladies and gentlemen, that the largest amount of space is spent in the coalition paper on employment and location security. The objectives of the export offensive, infrastructure investment, business start-up and expansion measures, active labour market policies, technology policies and the particularly important measures to increase skills are urgently to be implemented. In this area, a close of the shoulders of all the political leaders would be desirable and useful. A training offensive, combined with a sufficient range of childcare facilities, is particularly important for women in work. For women, the disadvantages over the course of a working life sum up, with the result that they do not gather enough insurance periods for the pension, despite the reckoning of child training periods. The result is: If it is sufficient for a single pension at all, women are mostly compensation recipients. If at the beginning of the female career correcting towards more equal treatment, we are freeing women from the deplorable image of the beneficiaries of alms. This would also be budgetaryly effective in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a few words on the "F" request concerning the promotion of the employment of older people who did not receive a majority in the Committee. It is positive if all parties deal with this issue. However, I believe the proposal that the collective agreement should be reduced by 20 per cent for the duration of a year, despite the planned compensation by the labour market service for fatal. This seems to me as if one would suggest to a high rope artist to work temporarily without a net, saying: If he is still alive, you can think about the meaning of the net. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress here, without wanting to deal more closely with the integrity of this approach: The collective agreement is the network, and this network must never and never be called into question!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11676	I would like to point out that Mrs Reitsmer's amendment, which has been selected by Mrs Reitsam, is sufficiently supported and is included in the debate. The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11700	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This matter is not plausible from our point of view about what we will have to decide in the next few days and weeks under the so-called budget accompanying, structural adjustment laws and so on. We do not understand this unsystematic procedure, we do not understand that in a kind of salami tactic small discs are cut down completely without context to the total matter instead of creating a total context. We note that there are retroactive elements in this paper. It is thus modified retroactively, which is a typical sign of a real flaw of beauty in the very sense of the word. We expect – this is a central point – especially in the field of bonus malus, an extremely negative steering effect. For anyone who assumes that if a fixed age limit causes the bonus or malus, it will not occur prophylactically before reaching this age limit exactly what we want to avoid by creating the age limit is very wrong. If the head of a staff department does not immediately introduce evidence of the most cost-effective termination dates due to this strange system, then he is not worth being head of a staff department, although this is, of course, an inhuman course. But we're provoking it. In view of the fact that, according to the opinions that exist, the whole matter is considered to be non-EU, because serious violations of equality are contained in it – my colleague Schaffenrath will go into it in detail – if one is aware of the fact that, of course, public service cannot do all that, because public services provide quite different age limits – one cannot enter the public service at all at all over a certain age – and if it is not understood that this should actually be an overall reform of labour law and of permissiveness, then we are sorry. For all these reasons, which highlight how casuistic and inaccurate this matter has been prepared, we will not be able to give our consent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, only half a sentence on Mr Haider and Mr Dolinschek's motion for a resolution remains: He too is more plausible and, in our opinion, not really relevant. But it contains an interesting element, and I note this here, as I have already done in the Committee. Although we do not think it feasible in this form, if it is said that a 20 percent grant of wages under pressure should be paid – collective agreement and so on, point two of the motion for a resolution – this may, at least, open up a debate on part-time unemployment. Because we have to think about it: If we want flexibilization and part-time work, we should consider whether this must not be accompanied by social measures. But this must be done in another debate. Today's applications are not suitable for this. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11748	Next speaker is Member Dr. Feurstein. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I In one point I agree with you: The re-codification of social security laws is necessary. It is also known that such work has been started some time ago in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I hope that this re-codification will come about in the foreseeable future, because, as the social security laws are present today, they are hardly usable for the normal user. – This is certainly a finding that was correct in this form. This labour market policy law continues a very clear labour market policy that was launched about four years ago, away from providing, away from managing unemployment, and towards a genuine, active labour market policy. The 1993 Employment Insurance Act has already been mentioned, which has clearly stated – I only take one point – that: We do not want any more crisis regions, we do not want people to be left in unemployment more or less, but we want to create employment opportunities for people who do not have jobs. We did so at the time, because it was with the abolition of these crisis regions that it was possible to reduce unemployment in these areas. A measure that has been actively implemented has thus contributed to a reduction in unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. After all, it is important to note that! In 1994, when we set up the labour market service, there has been a new, improved cooperation in the labour market service by involving the social partners. The labour market service has proved its worth in these soon two years. Cooperation is exemplary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen With the current measures, we will create an opportunity for older workers in 1996, who already accounted for 20 percent of the total unemployment in 1995. In 1995, 20 percent of unemployment in older people is over 50 years of age. The fact that we are setting up measures now and trying to reintegration these people into employment is, I believe, really an essential requirement that we are expressing. I am pleased today that for the first time – I have heard some government declarations here in the House – it has been stated in a government statement that integration takes precedence over passive services. What has been said here by the Federal Chancellor deserves recognition in this regard. It means a complete change in the labour market policy which we pursued in Austria a few years ago. What's this about? How do we improve the opportunities for older people? – First of all: For persons over 50 years of age who receive a job, the additional wage costs are reduced. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I That's another way. The reduction in additional labour costs is not subsidies. We want to reduce costs so that it is possible for older workers to cope with the competition he is facing. The reduction in additional labour costs is at least 1.5 percent between 50 and 54 years of age and 55%. 3 per cent of the age of a child. There's never been that, as far as I can remember. Second point: The special support will be abolished. It has triggered a tendency for people to cross early retirement. This special support will be provided with 31. In general, the transitional provisions, of course, will expire in order to avoid hardships. For the mining sector, it is significantly restricted, namely, only to scarce activities in certain establishments. This means that special support will no longer be an incentive and can be used to transfer to early retirement. Thirdly, Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, we are launching another important matter with this law. Those mining companies which will in future have someone transferred to the special support must continue to pay the pension insurance contributions until the pension age of the person concerned is reached. What we have observed in recent years is that it is very easy to cross into the special support, and this measure makes it much more difficult. At least this is a contribution of 12,55 percent, which is to be paid, not from unemployment insurance, but from those companies which use this instrument. I'll get you together. First: This labour market policy law really creates improvements in employment opportunities for older workers, because wage-side costs are reduced. Secondly – and this is very important for us –: It has a saving effect. It is a structural measure with a saving effect in 1996. Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr Kier. That is why we decide today, in 1996, with the very substantial savings effect of 800 million schilling. If we decide later, the savings effect would be lower. In 1997, it will amount to 1.5 billion schilling. Without anyone taking anything, the situation will be improved, a structural measure will be implemented and we will achieve a savings effect in the area of unemployment insurance of 1.5 billion schilling in 1997. This is, I believe, a measure which corresponds to what we imagine under labour market policy. I believe that the constant effort of our group and of our club to bring about changes to the special support has been worthwhile. You can really say: The steady drop a little caved the stone. In this sense, we are happy to give this law our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11840	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11861	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Feurstein! I'm not sure of what stone is going to be caved there. There are different types of stones, you know; those that are very soft and which can be very easily hollow, and those in which this is much more difficult. I mean, before you get through a law in such great praise, you should look at the practice of this law. I am afraid that there is still a lot ahead of us, which, in my opinion, I say quite openly, will rather give rise to a lack of optimism in the practice of this law. We agree on a number of points. We agree that it is important to take action against the rise in unemployment. We agree, I think, that the increase in unemployment is a problem which has increased dramatically, particularly in recent years, and which we have not actually seen in politics, which we are almost without answer. We must say – also on an international scale – that there are few instruments to reduce a once-achieved base of unemployment, of permanent unemployment, with targeted measures within relatively short deadlines. We are probably also agreeing on this – and I do not know exactly now, but I am aware of it in the statement of government, even if the perspective I think is wrong again – that it is necessary to take working-time policy measures to reduce unemployment, not just old-age unemployment. We are probably also agreeing that it is necessary to put in place employment policies. Only then do I ask, if you have already said so positively to the Government Declaration: Where are these in the Government Declaration? – They don't exist. Mr Feurstein! They do not exist in the Coalition Convention either. Although there are various points that are convinced that they may be able to create work, employment policy measures to which the Federal Government would confess itself, which it also clearly appoints and equips with certain resources, are not included. We may, however, agree, to a large extent in all political groups that these employment policies are necessary. We are also likely to agree on the need to use certain specific instruments in the field of labour market policy in order to reduce unemployment. My question is whether these specific instruments, old-age unemployment or permanent unemployment are used. I don't think so. We have a framework of 5 billion schilling available for active labour market policy. I say: If you want to create permanent jobs, you need to do so in the minimum for a job of 1 million schilling, so that is enough if you look at it soberly, maximum for 5 000 jobs, permanent jobs. Now everyone here in this House knows: That's not enough! In addition, with 5 000 jobs, we have not achieved anything at all: no serious reduction in the unemployment rate and no reduction in unemployment in general. We cannot achieve this, for this the instruments are too weak, too weakly mediated. 5 billion schilling – with the resources from the Social Fund it is then a little more, there are 6 or 6.3 billion schilling – are not enough, that will not be enough. This is not the means that we need in order to effectively reduce unemployment by means of active labour market policies. So what's the government doing? It builds instruments that I am convinced that they are in no way capable of effectively curbing unemployment. You can move these from the old to the boys at best. That would be a possible measure, only to say that clearly and clearly. I do not think it reasonable to move unemployment from one group, from the old, to another group, to the boys. I think this is a wrong perspective. And I tell you, Mr Feurstein – you are skeptical, I know from the Committee – that: Either these measures will be taken, then this will lead to youth unemployment, or, more likely, these measures you are taking with the bonus malus will not be taken, and this will result in older workers being terminated even before reaching this age limit of 50 years. We also discussed this in committee. Of course it will be! Every good head of staff will have to consider whether he's someone who's the 50. If this could be a risk case or not. And if this could become a risk case, for example, as regards the latent of claims as regards his wage as regards other factors, he will cancel it. It's easy! And not only him, but above all she! And that's the problem we have with the bonus malus anyway. That's what I'm at the core: The bonus malus is at best when it works, an instrument that helps keep older male workers in employment. For, Mr Feurstein, you and I all know: Women do not become unemployed at the age of 49, not with 48, but usually much earlier. It will therefore not be possible for them to take action which it considers to be in employment. And it will not be possible for women to take action that will bring them into employment. And for them there will be no measure to prevent their termination. Because that's the problem: There is not only the negative incentive ahead, but also the negative incentive for women if they are still in employment, because the termination of an older woman over 50 is still cheaper than that of an older man. This is the Malus system. [[Abg. Silhavy: You have to explain this to me!]] I don't need to explain that to you! It is calculated with the age limit for early retirement unemployment. [[Abg. You're supposed to explain that!]] Okay. - That means it's cheaper. I think it is a double disadvantage to women, a double disadvantage that will in all cases prevent women from gaining an advantage through this bonus malus system. You can obtain it much more rarely than the men. It only helps men if you firmly believe that the bonus malus system is really a good thing. However, I believe that this will be of no use. I am convinced that, in times like this, action in the economy will have to be guided by other criteria and I am referring to whether one wants to do something good to an older worker or an older worker. Other criteria play a priority role. I think it would have been much more useful to discuss a genuinely modern settlement system, not in the form of the task of handling claims, but rather of a settlement system similar to that of the Members here in this House, which thus provides smooth transitions. The honourable Members here in the House do not have a settlement system, which does not include all the disadvantages that private workers have in their processing arrangements, namely that they are taking place in jumps. That is a great advantage, and we obviously know in the House what the advantage of this regulation is. In my opinion, this advantage should also benefit private workers. It should be considered whether to open it to other forms of action, for example for training. If someone takes a voluntary job leave, why can't he be able to do the work in partial amounts or to complete it for a thing that is clear and taxed? That would be things to talk about. That would be a sensible perspective. That would help. This would actually help individual workers and make working life more flexible. I mean, there are measures that could actually help workers, including older workers, with whom they could be helped to increase their qualifications, which could help them to finish before this ominous age limit, i.e. before they retire, and so on. I think there could be enough opportunities to discuss, particularly in terms of working time policy measures, for example, to allow older workers to leave working life through reasonable, reasonable sub-pension schemes and the like. There is a lot of instruments to be developed. The same applies to part-time unemployment schemes. There would also be a lot to think about, in fact, helping people to cope with their difficult situation in old age, while still seeing them as full - fledged workers. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think the regulation that you will decide here today is not a good contribution. Maybe she'll help some. We should and will probably have to look at this scheme in a few months if we have the first experience. I think it will be rather negative experience from the bank. I do not think that the regulation is positive in one direction or another. Neither will she help the young, nor will she help the old. And I think you should then have the courage and the strength to drop the regulation again if it does not show any positive effects – what I am convinced of.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11919	I call Mr Koppler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11941	Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the various amendments to the social legislation, my word reference refers in particular to the Special Support Act. This law has made a significant contribution in recent years to solving employment problems in the Austrian economy. Especially in the years of the structural crisis in various sectors, such as machinery, electrical engineering or ironing industry, the Special Support Act in various variants was a great help. Dr. Feurstein! The companies have not applied the Special Support Act from Jux and Tollery. They know very well that there has been an industrial revolution in recent years, that there have been problems in employment in firms due to technological developments. I just want to say one example. In a section of that area where I work, in a steelworks, 4,000 workers were still producing 2,700 000 tonnes of crude steel six years ago, and today 600 people are producing over 3 million tonnes. And you can imagine that this was a challenge for us in terms of employment. If after the war or in the fifties the industry has taken up the people from agriculture, it was not possible for us in the 1980s to employ the people of industry, and we were very happy to have a special support law both in mining and in industry. Because of its political and economic possibilities, national corporations, I said, contributed years ago to the creation of the Special Support Act. As a parliamentary question confirms, this law has benefited the entire economy. I do not want to hide that about 20 percent of all SUG beneficiaries have come from the nationalised industry and from the state-owned enterprises. We were able to employ a lot of young people too, because in return the companies were ready for consideration. And so we were able to train hundreds of apprentices about the needs that are still available today as skilled workers with excellent qualifications from the Austrian economy. In the context of the four-year unemployment benefit, which has ceased to exist since the middle of 1993, we have seen that in the districts for which this scheme was applied, youth unemployment was unevenly lower than in the rest of the districts. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the unemployment insurance law and the Special Assistance Act have brought about an important relief from the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this reform package, which is to be decided today, it was important to me that the groups of persons who have benefited from age unemployment support years ago do not lose their right to special support. A transitional scheme provided for in the draft law essentially takes these concerns into account. And I am very grateful for that. I am particularly grateful to the Federal Minister for these transitional arrangements, but also to the employees of his ministry and, above all, to the trade unions and the Chamber of Labour. I am therefore very grateful that it has succeeded in bringing about a transitional arrangement for this area. Unfortunately, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also exceptions which are not covered by the transitional arrangements as a result of the compromise. There is no doubt that social hardships are to be expected, and I hope that the last word has not yet been spoken here. Otherwise, we would be forced or we would have to think about it, but we would have to call on the courts of employment, because it has happened many times that staff or entrepreneurs have referred to the Special Assistance Act and have promised colleagues that they could also use this law. If we decide today on this draft law, we must note that emergency aid recipients with reduced claims can no longer receive special support. For these people, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, who have lost most of their jobs unpopularly, this is a significant social hardship. Firstly, the entitlement to benefits is even lower, and secondly, there is still no job for them in the previously affected crisis regions. In these districts, especially, ladies and gentlemen, in those of Styria, the highest rates of unemployment are achieved. With the considerations of the new Federal Government on employment security, I hope that this depressing situation for older workers will improve – and I very much hope so. We therefore support this request, which is based on the guarantee of employment and the re-establishment of older workers. [[Abg. Blünegger: That's all Blabla!]] And in this sense a warm thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e11978	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her. Speaking time: another 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12000	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! One wonder, Mr Koppler. I don't know if you were in committee. I didn't see you. I didn't hear you either. You may have been silent somewhere. But in his speech in this committee, the Federal Minister said that the Special Support Act was not extremely suitable in itself and that it took advantage of entrepreneurs with the reason for having to reduce jobs by doing so. Perhaps you will get in touch with the Minister and talk to him once. You have a contrary opinion on your own minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Can you repeat that? I didn't watch!]] Then read it in the minutes. If you prefer that you talk to someone else when I speak to you, you have to read it in the minutes tomorrow! Mrs Reitsamer! They talked about the disadvantage of women in the ASVG, in the collective agreement, in pension law et cetera. So I am surprised, because, finally and finally, your group has for years been setting up the Minister for Women's Affairs and Equal Opportunities. So this woman minister could have been able to carry out several equal treatment solutions in the ASVG or pension law in the course of her long term if she had really wanted it. But since that was not the case, one cannot go down here and regret these things that have been neglected in the last 20 years. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Liberals, which I will read later, I would like to address a number of specific points, namely that this committee, whose outcome we are dealing with today, actually took place on the day of women. The application contains a number of amendments which have an impact on women or are simply alibrarians of the coalitionary applicant, but in reality do not do anything for them. For example, for the determination of the emergency aid claim from 54 onwards. Year of life increases the amount of the allowance by 200 percent. We all know that the partner of those women deserves much more and that to ensure the need for emergency aid for these women, an increase in the free limit would be required by at least 300 per cent. Yes, even her Federal Minister for Women's Affairs was in her opinion as well. But in the discussion on this request it has been shown that the Minister has simply turned his attention to this point of view. My God, she is a minister without a wallet, and one has decided half-heartedly to present to the women who cannot imagine the consequences of this proposal and the bill a new achievement of the socialist government, which is responsible for women and which is working on it. In addition, the proposals of the bonus malus system for the recruitment or release of older employees will again have to identify a disadvantage for women vis-à-vis male workers. And that's what happened on World Women's Day, as I said. The President and the applicant was Mrs Reitsamer, among other things, a woman. I would like, of course, and my previous speakers from our group have already said this, to say that the Group of the European Free Alliance rejects a malus or a penalty for exempt older workers, because, in my opinion, the legislator should create incentives for the employment of older workers and, as far as possible, should make more thought about maintaining them in the labour process for as long as possible, or should re-enter them, but should not think about penalties. More has come to your mind than to offer a 1.5 percent reduction in the share of unemployment insurance for a worker aged 50 and over. Again, one has not thought – and this on the World Women's Day – that there is hardly any chance for women from 45 onwards to find a qualified job again. It would also have been possible to encourage employees to receive a discount from the employer's contribution to unemployment insurance as early as 45 in order to receive them in the employment process. Our request is also going there. But our request goes a little further, because we believe that the reduction in the employment share in unemployment insurance is simply too little incentive of 1.5 percent. He should be completely removed from the recruitment of men from 50 and from women from 45 onwards. This would mean minimizing the numbers of unemployed older people and, consequently, burdening the budget less than abandoning the 3 percent share of service providers. The Federal Minister's statement at the Committee's meeting that women - perhaps you can remember - have not been met because they do not wish to call women of 45 years of age, I think this is a morbid joke, which shows, in turn, how strange the gentlemen of this Federal Government are. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How old are you?]] In order to return to the World Women's Day, where women in the proposed Malus area would in turn be disadvantaged, that is, because it is disproportionately cheaper for the employee to pay a fee for a quit woman from 50 onwards, because the calculation of these fees depends from time to legal minimum pension age, and that is still 60 years for men and 55 for women. That is to say, the penalty for the termination of men over 50 is at most a ten-year calculation basis and only five years for women. And that, as I said, on World Women's Day. President: Mrs Reitsamer of the SPÖ, who is said to have been very active in women over the last 20 years. In the same way, I also miss a reward on this template, i.e. a bonus, for the upright service relationship. If one knew that more and more unemployment rates for older workers are facing an ever-increasing supply of free jobs, it would also have been possible to find a way of solving this problem in relation to existing employment conditions. It is likely that you will not agree to our requests in the case of the large-scale coalition agreement which you have already shown several times, so that the necessary measures for employment and, above all, for the further employment of workers will not be taken into account again. I read the application as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12148	The amendment shall be properly submitted and duly supported and shall be negotiated. Mr Dr. Stummful has now been reported on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12172	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The employment and labour market problems are one of the central challenges that policy must face today and especially in this year, as I believe. With respect to the House, ladies and gentlemen: I consider these problems to be too important for me personally to discuss them at quarter two in the early days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make the proposal to my fellow Members on the list of speakers that we should refrain from exercising duties here and use the debate on the declaration of government and the budget debate to give these problems more time and importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12211	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12233	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. stupid! I'd like to take your suggestion and keep my remarks short. Nevertheless, I believe that the subject of the under-protection position of older workers is important, that it must still be done at half a time. I believe that you are once again on a fundamental wood road. Of course, their efforts, a pressing and really serious problem that will become even more serious in the future than it seems to be today to meet with a control mechanism is legitimate. And I recognize that you have tried not only to analyze the problem but also to find an adequate answer. – I just think that the solution you have chosen is not adequate and will not work. Mr Koppler! Hopes in economic contexts, hope that this law will bring the desired success, is too little! Economic links are predictable, they are a logical sequence in the decisions of the participating partners. You know that. Mr. Stumbling, Mr. Koppler and everyone else! What's the problem? – Our life work curve and the performance curve do not agree with the income curve. If you have recognized this problem, what is the case, and then take refuge to an unfit means, because you obviously do not have the political courage to address the problem and to pack it at the root, then you must get it to a wrong result! As an entrepreneur, ladies and gentlemen, I am affected by the fact that you are forcing me to deal with lists in which all workers who grow into this protection zone will inevitably be listed by every well-trained staff office. In this way, you force me to make a decision at a certain time, which I do not want to make at all. It is a grey matter to me when I think about what will happen in the individual businesses and also in the responsibility of the individual entrepreneurs. We know – and I am therefore particularly speaking to you, Mr Dr. Stummvoll – that you have also discussed other models. I told you: I do not think that there is this need for protection, and it cannot be articulated in this way because you cannot regulate economic links or living rules through state intervention. I therefore do not argue for a rule because I believe that all are counterproductive. But if we already have one, then the quota system for farms from a given size has failed ten times. I told you loud and clear. Mr. Feurstein! I don't understand how you too can agree. I do not understand that you understand this law. You can give your consent, knowing that you will create a class of – now I want to use a gross word – almost stigmatized workers. I believe that growing into an age group cannot be a criterion. – Have the courage to attack the problem at the root! And if you don't trust this, at least choose a scheme with which we can live! Because the one you chose is none. [[Abg. Blünegger: Those you want are not either!]] Whatever you want, ladies and gentlemen over there on the right, I'm squandered anyway! So leave it, you don't understand it anyway! I would like the quota system so that we can at least have a chance to remove the burden on individual entrepreneurs. – I say that at a later hour, and I ask you: Keep this - and you too, Mr President, at least somewhere in mind - so that perhaps further correction may be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12270	Mr Hums has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12292	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking you for the fact that this debate is being held on a very objective basis today, even if it is already late. I really believe that the issue of employment policy is the most important and essential one for the next time in Austria and Europe. I would therefore like to ask everyone in this House and, above all, the social partners to pay the highest attention to this issue in the future. If we are discussing the problem of older workers and ensuring employment for them today, it is crucial that we work together to have enough employment for all, for young and for older people. Because that is the basic condition. Today, we will be able to modify a system which has been set up for times of crisis and crisis, but which cannot be maintained in the long term, namely special support. General special support will expire, but there will be a transitional arrangement which is reasonable and reasonable. Because it will run out until the year 1999. The decisive thing is that we give the older worker a little more protection, but not only in the bonus malus system. It is also a change of consciousness in the area of social partners – and I say consciously: on both sides – and it is also because we are increasingly spending resources to carry out timely further qualification, not only when someone is in danger in older and thus at risk. And only one element of it, which should also contribute to the formation of consciousness, is the bonus malus system. I agree with everyone who says: In this new system, one really has to observe how it affects. Therefore, I address the message to the economy: It is designed in such a way that it is compatible with the economy. And ladies and gentlemen of Haselsteiner, I say: The company, which really holds the employees up to the pension limit in the company, is not affected by the malus, but only by the bonus for setting up older ones. However, I also believe that we should not completely lose sight of the quota system that is also being discussed, but rather think about it as a measure that would probably also be more administratively efficient. We're going a new way with the bonus malus system. And I say again: This system alone cannot do anything. It is necessary that we have enough jobs and a change of consciousness is necessary. This system will then contribute a little more to the fact that older people are not pushed out of work in advance. At the same time, however, we have maintained the statutory retirement age, which is relatively low in Europe at the age of 60 and 55. The abandonment of special support and the simultaneous increase in the retirement age would certainly have put young people at risk in the workplace. And we do not want to make any arrangements in favour of the elderly at the expense of young people. We have the lowest youth unemployment in all of Europe in Austria, and that must remain the case. I therefore believe – and this is not just a matter of this – that we should do everything in the implementation of the government programme, and ensure employment and training on a ground, give more opportunities for further training and continue to work on a flexible life-time model in the longer term. That's the challenge for us. That is why I would like to appeal to you today: This year, of course, we also have the problem of the boys who are looking for a lesson. We have done something today to secure the elderly. We now have to do everything very quickly with the social partners in order to secure youth apprenticeships, including in models of teaching workshops and with all other possibilities. I would like to thank you once again for the materiality that has been shown so far. I wish me a really good cooperation. I also say this in my first speech today in the social field and especially in terms of ensuring employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12346	I call Mrs Silhavy. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12367	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I will also try to take a short look, because today we are not talking about labour market policy as a whole, as Mr Oellinger has said, but about the labour market policy law. Mrs Madl! I would like to make one point. Make you aware: With this law, we have transferred the free-border increase to permanent law. I think that this is a very essential point, particularly in connection with the withdrawal of the SUG and with any possible listed disadvantages that might have arisen under pension law. I think you missed this or you wanted to overlook it. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, is a very essential measure especially for women aged 54. On behalf of the SUG and on the comments made by Mr Koppler: In particular, with reference to the possible cases of hardship, I would like to point out that today's supplementary request is a particularly important one, because it also covers those people who are in need of emergency aid and are thus finally insured, which is an important supplement. Mrs. Madl! The FPÖ says that it rejects a penalty for the termination of older workers. However, when punishing workers as a whole, you are not so small. In an amendment, you demand that the persons concerned lose all benefits, as it were, once they have committed abuse. There you would be quite rigid with the punishment! Your claim for 20 percent under collective contractual payment: They probably write off the more often of models from Germany. I don't know. Do you do that because these papers are also in German, or does it have other backgrounds? But it's also completely the same. In any case, you know that there has been such a model in Germany and that the entrepreneurs have not even responded to it. If you are interested: That's what's in the "Press" of 24. February. You can certainly leave this article to be deleted. One point is particularly important to me, and I would therefore like to address him here: This pretence that women's equal treatment and non-discrimination are a concern is really the last thing to do. [[Abg. Madl: In it you are world champions!]] No, we're not! If I am not fooled, Mrs Madl, you said in committee that you are for the same retirement age. They obviously want women to work up to 60! – We Social Democrats are in the front line responsible for ensuring that we have been able to hold the age of 55 for women, Mrs Madl! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You obviously didn't look at the numbers either, that's not your strength! Do you know at what age is the highest unemployment rate in women? – Between 30 and 40 years and not between 40 and 50! Look You'll find out more about the labour market, then you'll see that! In addition, I'll tell you a number. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] I know this time is hard to do with numbers, but listen to me! 12 197 women between 50 and 55 are unemployed, whereas only 2 105 are over 55. You should look at the facts before you say something here! Now I would like to draw your attention to a headline at this late hour: "A redundancie in the social state demands Haider at the F-start for the election of the Chamber of Commerce." – That's what it says in the "Press" of the 6th century. ==References== How does this fit in with your social and social principles? We Socialists and Socialists have always been committed to employment and employment policy. [[Abg. Blünegger: You can remove the word "social" from your party name!]] [[Abg. Meisinger: The word "democratic!"]] I've already noticed: You have problems with the word "democratic"! You can't even say it again! But that's a problem your party has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I said, The SPÖ has always been committed to employment policies in recent years, because the labour market is not self-regulatory and because it unfortunately needs some steering mechanisms. In this context, I can rely on the fact that at least this discussion will be carried on very progressively by our side also during this term of office, and can therefore take a short look at me. I would ask you all to agree to our request, to consider the facts and to consider what you, if you ask for something in your requests, will actually do so, for example, by reducing the collective contract wage! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12450	Mr Dolinschek, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Time remaining: Three minutes. - I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12480	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am very glad that you mentioned earlier that special support in principle was not the yellow of the egg. You have already mentioned this in the Committee on Social Affairs. They have indirectly admitted that this was in principle a redistribution of old-age unemployment to early retirement. That's why we had so many early pensioners in Austria! I would like to address the bonus malus system very briefly. We naturally welcome the bonus system, but not the form in which the coalition's request provides that up to 55 years only 1.5 percent of the employer's unemployment insurance contribution should be taken into account. That's, I think, too little. We want to reduce the full employer's contribution to the 50's, because in our view it is simply more sensible. The malus should be removed at all, because in the past the difficulties of termination have proved – even with the disabled – that these have negative consequences. The one-time payment of about one month's salary does not make any difference, taking into account that ten-year employment in the company is still necessary. Because when a 40-year-old is hired and with the 50. In the case of higher claims and higher steps, the holding will save more if it reaches this servicer before he reaches the 50th. He is a member of a ten-year-old company, as if he had to pay a fee later. A further reduction in the age limit of older workers at risk of unemployment would be the result. Women are, of course, particularly discriminated against in this context, because, as has already been said by speakers of all political groups, women on the average earn much less and the company gets cheaper when they are terminated earlier. What really surprised me is that Dr. Feurstein did not mention today that the abolition of this malus system would mean much less money: 100 million schillings, you said in committee. I think you have then reckoned that it is not. Because of the synergies that result from a stronger bonus, and because of the incentives, it has actually become obsolete. In brief, Mrs Reitsamer, Mrs Silhavy and Mr Kier, who have criticized our motion for a resolution, particularly point 2, with the 20 % reduction in the collective contract wage for all employees: This is, in principle, not a general reduction, but a grant of the labour market service to wages. And it is not a high-speed operation without a net, Mrs Reitsmer, but the net remains! The collective contract wage remains. Nor is it part-time unemployment, as Mr Kier said. In the Committee's view, it has also mentioned that this request has failed much more than that of the coalition. Today in plenary, when he's public, he doesn't know anything about it anymore! I would also like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to go to the point of stopping these collection ovens and to put forward a fundamental legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12529	Mrs Schaffenrath is now on the floor. - I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12551	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, my party friend Volker Kier, has already pointed out the fundamental problem of this matter. And that this bonus-malus system – and it is a matter of particular concern to me – is absolutely inappropriate to ensure the protection of the older worker, has already my party friend Dr. Haselsteiner. I believe that this bonus-malus system, for the reasons mentioned above, is absolutely inappropriate, that it will only push the unemployment age further down, that it simply cannot stop old age unemployment for the reason that our income curve is too low. One thing is clear: This provision will clearly have an impact on women's disadvantages. And there my predecessor of the SPÖ can't make it that easy, because that's what concrete figures are talking about. I will come back to that and explain with concrete figures how this affects. I am even surprised that the SPÖ women can so easily agree with the provisions on women's rights. They are aware of the problem. She's aware of Mrs. Reitsamer. In the course of the review process, she even became aware of your women's minister. It was able to push itself through the time limit so to speak before the vote. And I am looking forward to seeing how the President of the Chamber of Labour, who has been as clearly aware of this problem in her assessment, will vote here today. The fact that it has not yet been ensured whether this bonus-malus system is at all EU-compliant and in accordance with EU Directive 76/207/EEC and will not have a discriminatory effect on equal opportunities for older workers has not yet been discussed. There is therefore a problem because once again more inequalities, i.e. different retirement age, were treated equally. Unfortunately, it is a principle of coalition parties: They want to shave everything over a comb. They adhere to the principle of foundry instead of finally showing their will for design and reform. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give an example of how this will affect our women. I assume that income is the same, 20 000 s for men and women, because that should ultimately be the goal for us women. If man and woman are terminated at 50 years of age, then the malus amount for the woman is 1 200 S and for the man 2 400 S. This is already a very cheap amount, which proves: the younger the cheaper; and of course it is the cheapest when the termination is pronounced at 49 years. It's getting a little more expensive with increasing age: Both are 52.5 years old, both have again an income of 20,000 S. I figured this out extra, I don't have a problem with numbers. In this case, the malus amount for the man is 18 000 s, for the woman to exactly one third, namely, 6 000 p. – so it appears: In the present case, differences in retirement age in the same system are treated in the same way. In the bonus system, it is particularly favourable, especially in the exchange process: You can cancel a 50-year-old woman – she has the same income, 20,000 s, costs 1,200 s – and exchange for a 50-year-old man. The malus payment for the woman can be compensated within four months and overall a bonus amount of 54 000 S for the man, while the maximum bonus amount for a woman is only 18 000 S. – These are facts. These figures speak for themselves. This is a truly discriminatory provision for women! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You have said in your last "profile" interview that you like to look at the women in the course of women's demos. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I said the kids!]] The children and the women. The women didn't recognize you, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I didn't say the women, but: the children!]] Mr Khol! You can now continue to look at women. Take your head of women and your particularly sensitive secretary-general in women's policy and take along your colleagues from the coalition party who have called very loud in the election promises when it comes to women's affairs. Then go to the next employment office to look at women; there will In particular, they find many unemployed women around the age of 50 who are still trying to find a position that may not have made their insurance periods at all. From the large group of these women, Mr Klubobmann, can You may require those grandmothers who are no longer in employment and who have intended you to solve the increased child care problem.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12613	In the word, no one has been reported anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are entering the voting procedure. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's reports. First of all, we are voting on the 1996 draft law on labour market policy, including the title and receipt in 64 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. In addition, Members Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion for a resolution on this subject. 1 C. 1 And I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I'm gonna leave you on this. 1 C 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion for a resolution on this subject. 1 C. 2 and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 1 Z 2 as part of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this part of the draft law to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 Z 4. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is the minority. Rejected. I'm gonna leave you on this. 1 C 4 as part of the Committee's report, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Major and comrades refer to species. 1 Z 6, and I beg those ladies and gentlemen who stand for this sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Now, let me vote on Art. 1 Z 6 as part of the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Mr Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Art. 2 Z 6 brought in, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. The main and comrades have the deletion of the Z 1 in Art. 3 to the content. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign to be given to this request. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule. 3 C 1 as part of the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here to have the same sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. There is also a amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Major and comrades in respect of species. 3 Z 2 before, and I seek for a sign those ladies and gentlemen who stand in front of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule. 3 Z 2 as part of the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those Members who have spoken for it to be a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a request for an amendment to delete the Z 3 in Art. 3 is included. Those ladies and gentlemen who are for this, I'm looking for signs. – This is the minority. Rejected. Now I'm going to leave it on. 3 C 3 as part of the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. Accepted. There is also a amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Major and comrades in respect of species. 3 Z 4 and I seek a sign from those members of the House who speak for themselves. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 3 C 4 as part of the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this part of the draft law to have a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of it, to give a sign in this regard. – That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would also like to vote in favour of this draft law at third reading, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report (65 of the supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00010_d7e12751	I declare that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests for 126/A (E) to 131/A (E). Questions 268/J to 281/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 14. March 1996, 9 a.m. The debate on the Federal Government statement will take place at this meeting. The sitting is closed.
