ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2729	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take the places. I declare the 43. Meeting of the National Council for Opened. The official protocols of the 40. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the They shall be deemed approved. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Lösnak, Grabner, Dr. Preisinger, Dr. Stippel, Schöll, Dr. Haider, Mag. Schweitzer, Dr. Povysil and Dr. Van der Bellen. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2766	Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links==* Official website Today, in the Federal Electoral Authority's Parliamentary Directorate, the 23 MPs were elected to the elections due to the findings made in the third investigation procedure or to the relinquishing of mandates. These are the following Members: Werner Amon, Dr. Gertrude Brinek, Dr. Josef Cap, Dr. Heinz Fischer, Dr. Martina Gredler, Dr. Jörg Haider, Theresia Haidlmayr, Dr. Hans Peter Haselsteiner, Eleonora Hostasch, Mag. Doris Kammerlander, Dr. Peter Kostelka, Franz Morak, Hans Helmut Moser, Dr. Sonja Moser, Klara Motter, Rudolf Nuremberger, Ing. Wolfgang Nußbaumer, Dr. Brigitte Povysil, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Maria Schaffenrath, Mag. Karl Schweitzer, Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. Furthermore, the Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that, after leaving the European Parliament, Member Dr Spindelegger has received his National Council mandate in accordance with § 111 para. 1 The national election system within the meaning of the legal provisions has been re-allocated, which means that the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Richard Kaiser from the National Council. This is also the subject of the issued vote. With regard to those Members who have already listened to the National Council to this day, and who thus merely continue their parliamentary activity, there is a need for a new fishing observation. On the other hand, we will praise those Members who today take up or resume their parliamentary activity, i.e. Dr. Martina Gredler, Ing. Wolfgang Nußbaumerand Dr. Michael Spindelegger. I assume that the three mentioned are present in the hall so that we can do the fishing. After reading the vow formulas and by calling for a name by the scribe, the mandates will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I can speak to the honourable Member. Ask Auer to act as a writer and read the vow formula. I ask you to rise from the seats.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2881	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2907	I very much welcome the new colleagues in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2935	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel will be represented by Ms. State Secretary Dr. Ferrero-Waldner and Mr. Agriculture Minister Mag. Molterer by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein. I would ask you to take note of this. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2965	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Offensive labour market policy in times of budget consolidation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2986	First of all, Mr Ewald Novotny. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3008	Mr President. High house! As a S & D party, we have chosen employment policy as the theme of this current hour, because it is indeed an essential problem for the Austrians, and it is important that we take a realistic and differentiated view of the problems. If we look at developments in Austria in this respect, we can of course see that there are negative developments in the field of employment, but we must also see that Austria as a whole has kept up well. If I look at the unemployment figures – I take OECD numbers, i.e. numbers that are immediately comparable – I note that in Austria we have an unemployment rate of 4.6 percent, in the USA, which is sometimes presented as wonderland, an unemployment rate of 5.7 percent, in Germany of 10.3 percent, in the UK of 8.2 percent. [[General unrest]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] A particularly sensitive area is youth unemployment; it is defined here as the unemployment of people under 25 years of age. There are new EU statistics showing that Austria has the lowest youth unemployment rate in all European countries: We have an unemployment rate of 5.2 percent for young people, 10.2 percent in Germany, 18 percent in the UK and 23 percent in France. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the developments in Austria, but I think it is important to take these figures up once to see that we have to deal with these facts. We have a very strange development in Austria and also at EU level, which, in the field of employment policy, confronts the confusion of targets on the one hand and instruments on the other. It is often said in discussions that some instruments are already positive for themselves without seeing how they actually work. I would like to give a concrete example: the famous word flexibility. Of course, flexibility can be positive in some aspects, but it must be said quite clearly: As an instrument of employment policy, it is overestimated. There is hardly a country in Europe with a more flexible labour market than Spain, Spain has done everything it has been told. Result: Unemployment rate 24 percent, youth unemployment rate 35 percent. Or England, the country that is seen here by some neoliberals as a model country: Unemployment rate 8.2 percent, youth unemployment rate 18.1 percent. – So I think that all of this is not a striking proof of the advantages of unlimited flexibility, as we are always told by some. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at employment issues under this pragmatic approach, we see social democrats primarily as a priority in the fight against youth unemployment, i.e. the safeguarding of teaching places. We have strong young years coming to the labour market this year and also next year. Of course, this also presents an additional problem, but we will do everything we can to solve it. I would like to say very clearly here: We Social Democrats are on the dual education system. It is clear to us that this dual training system only works if the entrepreneurs who have an important part of this training are involved, and they will only be involved – and this is clear to us – if it is in their interest. It is precisely from this point of view, I believe, that it is also useful to establish a balance of interests between the companies that train apprentices and those companies which do not train apprentices, but which, of course, also want to have a qualified workforce. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we are voting for a burden compensation, as it has been agreed, and we expect this agreement to continue. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who did you agree with?]] With the social partners responsible for this. You are certainly not responsible for this because you have done nothing for employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Employment is carried out in the entrepreneurship and social partners. A second area, which I hope is interesting to you and where I hope you will also be involved, is the area of training. [[Abg. Böhacker: Should we not train apprentices?]] But of course! The more, the better! That is why we want to provide additional assistance in the field of training places. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How many training places have you already created?]] We do not have spent capacities in the field of teaching workshops, we also have unburdened capacities in other areas. The labour market service has agreed to provide 600 million schilling to finance additional apprenticeships in the other sectors. I would like to say very clearly here: As an Austrian Parliament, we can assure young people today that for young people who leave school at the age of 15, we can afford a training guarantee in the sense that we say of them no one will be for more than six months, either without a apprenticeship or without a corresponding job or without a corresponding job preparation. This is a promise, this is a commitment we are entering into, and I think it is important to say to young people: There is a problem, but there is a problem solution – a problem solution provided by this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to point out that employment policy, of course, also has an international dimension, both in the EU and in the other areas. In the context of the EU, it is true that the EU Commission has covered the brink of the issue, but unfortunately the majority of the conservative states have prevented the appropriate approaches so far. There are, for example, Great Britain, a country that has not even joined the Social Charter. If, as I read, the Minister of Economic Affairs will now attend a seminar in the UK, I hope that he will discuss not only with thatcher economists, but also with experts who present the situation to him objectively and explain how it lives in a country with a youth unemployment of 18 percent, and that he will learn from what one cannot do. I believe that this is especially what he must bring to Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But of course there is also a global dimension, which is very up-to-date, since we still have negotiations under the WTO this year, and I would also like to say very clearly in this regard: As an Austrian, we are in favour of free world trade, but like every market, this market also needs its rules, and we are therefore strongly committed to combating environmental dumping, social dumping, we are committed to introducing safeguard clauses in the interests of the respective countries and in the interests of all other countries. We must also fight in this regard in the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it is about the fact that Europe has succeeded in establishing a system of a social market economy, a welfare state, in which man is not only a cost factor on two legs, but in which the dignity of man counts. When we talk about reforms here, it is always important to ask in what direction these reforms should go. We Socialists will oppose all the developments that are at the expense of the dignity of man, even though we know that we sometimes do not swim on the wave of the spirit of time. However, we will actively implement all the reforms that offer better opportunities for people: better opportunities in the income field, better opportunities in the employment field. This is the point on which we are concerned, and this is what we wanted to point out today at this current hour.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3125	Mr Hums was given the floor to deliver an opinion on the subject. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3146	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's hour is a good reason to present the employment situation of Austria in a phase of profound international economic change. This change is very closely linked to the currently widely debated concept of globalisation, and it is still the biggest challenge for us to create good employment opportunities for all. We have dealt better with this problem so far than most other countries. Although this cannot calm us for the future, it is nevertheless necessary to note again and again that we have the second lowest unemployment rate within the European Union with just over 4 percent of seasonally adjusted unemployment in Luxembourg and far below the EU average. Again: This is a fact which cannot calm us, but which must continue to encourage us to do everything we can to create employment, especially in the field of youth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, of course, we also need to think: beyond what we actually do in each individual case. We need to see and comment on all international development, because almost all the forecasts agree that over the next decades the prosperity will be re-distributed globally and that the industrialized countries will be transformed into the term "break-up". These significant shifts between economic blocks will lead to changes, but the answer to the globalisation of the economy through new technologies can only be that at the same time we have to take action to ensure that quality of life, prosperity and social standards are equally globalised, because only that will ensure that we do not have to compete with low-paid countries in the long term, but also that prosperity, purchasing power and thus new market opportunities are created for us in these countries too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore not only a primary economic policy task, but rather the most urgent general political task of finding the best possible answers to globalisation and the very dynamic, decentralised and difficult to control development. I see the following answers as a priority: Firstly, in relation to globalisation, reference should be made to the importance of EU accession for our country. A single-standing strategy would have had fatal consequences in global competition on exports, investment and thus on jobs in our country. We do not therefore change the correctness of the decision to join the EU in 1994 either because we are not happy with the results of the elections. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Federal Minister! The results of the election were encouraging and not inconvenient! – A real correction: happy!]] Unfortunate election results cannot change the correctness of this decision! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't talk at the union congress! What do you think?! You're talking to Parliament!]] Globalisation will lead to a completely new international division of labour. I am convinced that this requires minimum social and environmental standards. This applies mainly to world trade but also to trade within the European Union. The second priority is the global implementation of these minimum standards, which is in Austria's greatest interest. Of course, this can only be achieved successfully together with the other EU Member States. The relocation of production abroad must not necessarily weaken the location of Austria and the domestic employment situation. It must be used to open up new markets for sales, to improve supply and to achieve the international division of labour for the establishment of centres of competence in Austria. Third, therefore, it calls for the best possible management of globalisation to continue strategic planning and action in key areas. ==References== In November 1996, the Federal Ministers for Climate Change and Scholten will present a new, adapted Austrian strategy, which will include an offensive strategy for central areas of our economy. The two ministers are working on a package to promote the establishment of business centres. This is based on a fundamental analysis of the conditions of competition for professional services and the best possible support through our entire domestic system – debureaucratisation and also the consequences of the tax system. An offensive strategy must focus on the highest possible number of centres of competence and decision-making in our country. The establishment and maintenance of headquarters functions is of particular importance due to the high value added and important corporate functions of decision-making centres under global competition conditions. One thing has to be clear: In the future, we want to strive for full employment, secure jobs, but not at the price of wage and social dumping. – Only that can be our goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourthly, it will be necessary to invest more in education, research, development and technology in order to exist in global competition. Knowledge production factor will be crucial for the future, its importance could soon exceed the importance of capital production factor. The questions of further education and training will therefore be discussed at the government council on 12 December. In November 1996, an important priority was given. This is true for school and university questions as well as for apprenticeship training – a question that is particularly important to us this year because we have more than 8 500 fifteen years ago than two years ago and 4 700 fifteen years more than in 1995. Our whole attention will be paid to them. My previous speaker, Mr Dr Novotny, has already pointed out that we agree with the AMS a guarantee: Within six months, this training, employment or at least vocational preparation should be available for all young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the Federal Government will discuss the implementation of the technology billions at the clause as well as investments in environmental protection and the question of a new source wave in connection with an amended trade regulation and a modern administration for process acceleration. These priorities of the Federal Government's work show that there is no fundamental contradiction between fiscal consolidation and employment policy: on the one hand, because a functioning budget is the basic prerequisite for successful employment security, on the other hand, because important priorities are also given in the context of budget consolidation. I would like to point out that in the previous year, through my initiative, it was established that, despite budget consolidation, 60 billion schilling will be invested in infrastructure expansion over the next five years. In addition, as the examples of trade regulations, apprenticeship training, but also the liberalisation of shop opening times decided by the Council of Ministers today, can be set even without additional budgetary means offensive employment policy accents. To say it quite clearly: With the liberalisation of the trade regulations, but also the opening times and the improvement of apprenticeship training, thousands of jobs can be secured or created in addition, without even spending a single budget shift. High house! I believe that the finding applicable in Austria that budget consolidation and employment security are not a zero-sum game can also be transferred to the level of the European Union. Priority should also be given to the EU budget. The fact that the requirements of budgetary discipline are also taken seriously for the Community budget has already been demonstrated by the Member States with the drafts in 1997. With regard to the weightings of the Community budget, Austria will continue to work consistently towards focusing on innovative and employment-oriented policies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3222	Minister! The speaking time is 10 minutes, but it is a target. - I'm just paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3238	The European Social Fund has made Austria available for additional measures in employment policy 1.4 billion schilling. We therefore have a record budget of 6.5 billion Schilling for active labour market policy this year. In addition, 55 000 people will be involved in training, training and employment assistance measures. It is particularly true in Austria that, in the areas of employment and labour market policy, international opportunities must be sought not only at national level but also at international level. Austria therefore advocates in the European Union that the Treaties clarify the need for full employment in the European Union as a result of the change in the Treaty. We will continue our employment policy, namely employment for all ages. But our very special concern is: We have the lowest youth unemployment in all of Europe – that must remain so!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3274	The next debate is scheduled for a speaking time of 5 minutes. The honourable Member has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3298	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are dealing with employment policy today, it is not just about the publicly known terminations and closures, but, I am convinced, we have to deal with the whole problem of the working world. There were about a million changes in employment in 1995 – there have been terminations, and new employment conditions have been established. It is essentially about the fact that these changes do not necessarily involve access to a better working relationship, but the wage situation is then there or there even worse. For this very reason, in recognition of the problem that exists in the construction industry, Federal Minister Hums began to think together with the Federal Minister for Climate Change and other participating Federal Offices about how, for example, to set up and implement a construction initiative. 30 billion Schilling – which has been used effectively – have shown that employment in the construction industry has become stable and better, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the impact of the 60-billion-billion-shilling-rail infrastructure investment programme on employment is also clearly evident. If the trade union of construction and woodworkers can now on average guarantee an extension of employment in the construction industry by six months with an annual working time model, this is also a positive building block for the employment situation in Austria. For example, if access to polishing activities for small and medium-sized enterprises is ensured in connection with the construction industry and the construction craftsmanship school, this is one of the many small steps in the quality field when it comes to employment. I believe that we could also make a big leap forward, which is domestic and applies to small and medium-sized enterprises, if we were to move forward with the thermal renovation of the buildings more quickly. In this respect, initiatives are in particular required by the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Federal Construction Directorate. Only in the last number of business journals of the Chamber of Commerce "The Entrepreneur" does it say that in Austria more than 260 S of wages per hour are charged. It is a very great provocation in my view – one only needs to look at the actual wage development in Austria. However, this is used as an argument that work in Austria is too expensive. It must be seen how hourly productivity has developed in Austria, especially in industry: 1993: plus 4.4 per cent, 1995: plus 5.9 per cent, 1996: expected plus 4.5 per cent and 1997 expected to be plus 5 per cent. In the area of services, there is an increase in productivity of 2 per cent across the EU, including Austria, while the increase in wages is 0.6 per cent. It is therefore not possible to maintain the argument that work has become too expensive, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I am convinced that the reduction of wages is not an employment policy right recipe. You know from your own area, a fall of 0.8 percent... – I even want to confirm you in your argumentation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] – A fall in private purchasing power by 0.8 percent should give us an idea when it is said that wages or total wage costs are too high. Let's take a practical look at the problem: Will any company that uses welding robots for example today use sweaters at lower wages? – I think this is a wrong move. What we need more than ever, ladies and gentlemen, is not access to employment under the heading "Road with wage costs!" – I sometimes feel that the employee will be seen as the new enemy – but we must come to a reasonable development in the employment situation. This is also about night work, about flexibility, but also about the current topic of shop opening times. I do not want to hide the fact that the repeated demand that business should be kept open for longer is a problem, for example, that 300 000 hours of work are not paid for in the Billa Group due to a changed labour market situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever it is said that there is longer openness, you should also think of the employees there. – I think that would be the more sensible way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3354	Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3378	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! The preservation and creation of jobs is the central issue for policy and for the future. I believe that all the political parties in this House must agree that ensuring a high level of employment is an absolute priority. Every single unemployed person means a single gift, a family sendal, but also represents a cost factor for state and society. Offensive labour market policy is therefore an important part of fiscal consolidation. Growing unemployment would create dramatic difficulties for the budget. We would immediately have new costs on the expenditure side and lose resources on the revenue side. – With yesterday’s solutions, we cannot secure today’s jobs and do not create them for tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know today, I think, that all the political groups here in this House have come to realize that debt does not secure jobs. The famous quote of Bruno Kreisky has not only found its rainfall in numerous books, but also finally in our budget. In my opinion, it contradicts the generation contract that one makes debt to secure jobs in the short term – which is not always successful – and shifts the repayment with interest and interest rates to the future and burdens the young generations with it. Making debts doesn't secure a single job! Rather, it leads to higher taxes, higher taxes and additional taxes. It is therefore at risk of jobs! Today's debts are the taxes and charges of tomorrow and cost the jobs of the day after tomorrow. Offensive labour market policy therefore requires budget consolidation. Full employment will only be achieved in Austria if we change the framework, namely the general conditions. The ÖVP may well have answers to the new challenges, globalisation, engineering, the computer age. – I don't want to talk about a few points here for 5 minutes in order to light up everything in detail. Flexible working hours – desired by employees and employers. This is a very important step for Austria's economic location. We need more liberal opening hours, which is an absolute condition for Austria's economic location, but also for jobs. We need a new apprenticeship offensive – the ÖVP has presented a very good paper in this regard. We know that unemployment – I have already said this at the outset – is a burden for everyone, a family send-back. I don't think you can evaluate unemployment by saying: It's worse, and it's less bad! But I still have to say: Youth unemployment is certainly the worst and most terrifying form of unemployment. I mean, we can't just resort to international comparisons and say: Austria is still relatively good at it compared to the other countries!, but we need to become active and start an apprenticeship offensive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To create jobs, however, job offensive can not only mean creating new jobs in the self-employed, but is also inseparably linked to the creation of new companies. We need a new wave of founders. It must not be the case that today, when a young businessman starts, admission and approval procedures are obstacle runs which he cannot handle at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would just like to mention the following very briefly: In our policy, we must not forget the farm workplace – it is rarely mentioned in this context, but it is equally important for job security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say very briefly: Education policy is investment in the labour force of the future. We need more resources in this area, we also need more research. Harmonisation of the minimum standards in the EU has already been mentioned. Finally, I would like to say: We need offensive labour market policies and budget consolidation. I can still bring a formula of the ÖVP: We do not need debt, no more bureaucracy and no more redistribution, but we need performance, savings and deregulation – only in this way can we support the weak in our country in the long term!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3487	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3508	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Novotny brought international comparisons and said: It's not that bad with us anyway! He announced an apprentice offensive. Mr. Federal Minister Hums has also just announced what could happen, better conditions and so on – no concrete proposal on how to reduce unemployment in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Didn't you listen?]] It is obviously the result of your clause that you can't make a reasonable proposal here on how to boost economic growth in Austria. They did the following: They wanted to consolidate the budget – 1996/1997 – one third of revenue on the part of the budget, two thirds on the part of the budget. Now we have the result of the third quarter: 50 billion schilling of tax revenue, but not because of the economic situation, but because of the burden package that you have taken on the Austrians – in addition, 40 000 jobs have been lost. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it was not just the liberals who urged the measures and said that they had a negative impact on employment policy. I'm just thinking about the building model. The leading candidate of the ÖVP in Vienna has said that the abolition of the building master model means the loss of 2 000 jobs, less revenue for the Minister of Finance from the investment or additional payment from unemployment insurance amounting to 600 million Schilling. The Wifo has made an investigation into the Luxembourg model, in the direction that it has been said: a VAT refund of 10 per cent for private housing. Although this costs 5 billion schilling, 11 000 new jobs are created, 7 000 unemployed are less dependent on unemployment insurance and the level of undeclared work is reduced, the loss of tax revenue due to undeclared work in the order of 30 billion schilling is reduced by 10 billion schilling. In addition, the employment effect, which Wifo has also examined, is that 1 700 to 2 000 more workers in the construction industry can be employed per billion of the Luxembourg model. Why Take Don't you take such concrete measures? – Don’t always talk about framework conditions, about globalisation, but look at concrete measures you will take in Austria to reduce unemployment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] During the debate on the 1996 and 1997 budgets, it was said: The federal allocation to the countries will be increased by 5 billion – commitment to housing development. A week goes by: There is nothing more to be heard of the commitment of purpose, the 5 billion are available for free. However, you know very well that every billion Schillings create additional 1 500 jobs for housing. If we count this together – the Luxembourg model and the increase in housing development by 5 billion schilling – these are at least 12 000 to 15 000 jobs that could be created in addition, which, although cost 5 billion schilling, have budgetary impact in the order of 20 billion schilling. This is a concrete example. Take the opportunity for the Austrian population or employment policy in our country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You said you wanted to start an apprenticeship offensive. – But we have not noticed anything from the apprentice offensive you want to start. You have completely passed the following fact: An apprentice costs 9 000 S, an AHS student costs 65 000 S, and a student of an HTL costs 93 000 S in the year. They clearly conduct discrimination against apprentices. They speak of an apprenticeship offensive, but they introduce a municipal tax for the apprentices and are committed to creating equality between apprentices and graduates of vocational training schools in the sense of co-insurance. [[Abg. Controversy: Who demanded this?]] They are talking about a founding offensive, but they are introducing a minimum of 50 000 schilling. They are talking about privatisation, but they know very well that the Austrian construction industry is currently faced with competition from construction companies, which are 90 percent in public ownership, such as here in Vienna, which "pass in" with dumping prices in Tyrol – for example: Drive by Kronburg – Zams – Landeck from ÖBB, where there was an invitation to tender. Since the ÖBB have now been privatized, the offer opening has not been public. The offer of the one company was 81 million schilling, that of the second bidder at 95 million schilling. If you look at the results of the last press conference on the balance sheet...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3574	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3589	... it is not surprising that they generate such operating results. On the other hand, on the other hand, they exert a very strong pressure on the private construction industry, which leads to a further loss of jobs and the destruction of public assets.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3619	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3641	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current hour under the heading "Budge consolidation and offensive labour market policy" gives me the opportunity to make a few comments from the perspective of the Liberal Forum. It has already been said a lot, but I have the disturbing feeling that most of it is moving at the surface of the symptoms and has not taken hold of the structures. Sometimes this is used as an excuse for the other – this happens to me especially when talking about the so-called globalisation case. Of course, open markets in the world pose a major challenge, and, of course, open markets in the world do not mean that one cannot back into the old chair of the regulations, that one cannot adhere to a trade order which corresponds more to a state-of-the-art law than to a framework law on entrepreneurship. This means, at the same time, that we need to find another access to the organisation of working time, in several ways: The element of flexibilization is something that everyone in their mouths today leads – that is absolutely right. It is absolutely necessary to resolve itself from rigid forms of organization, i.e. to take back red tape in the transferred sense, but it is also necessary to create framework conditions so that flexibility can be lived in such a way that individual members of society work less in absolute hours, but still do not perish. In other words, we must provide flexibilization with the component that social security is decoupled from work. If we don't, then we're in a working time trap, then we're forcing fewer and fewer people to work more and more. At the same time, however, we are forced to take more and more away from these increasingly less and less people in order to alimentate all those we have artificially driven out of the working world – through rigid regulations – I deliberately say "aliment" because I deliberately put in a negative undertone. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the one hand, we prevent people in the working world from living their social contacts, their relationships, and also their self-esteem, but at the same time overpowering those whose numbers are getting smaller, namely those we employ at full time. That is why we have a connection to the so-called globalisation trap, because I believe it would be a mistake to assume that we escape from it by evading in some way, for example - I hope that no one in this House wants to do so - wage, social or environmental dumping in order to achieve cost reductions in our system. We would take this into account for a race that would not only be unsocial, not only unreasonable, but also destructive for our own power. Moreover, we could not even win it because of the pay gap. Look at our wages and compare them to those of the eastern neighbors. You see steps of 1:10, 1:100 – but in the denominator of the break, not in the counter. Therefore, if we want to improve the working world, we must also, in particular, allow for the transition between self-employed and self-employed. This is a very essential aspect of our approach in the context of the reform of the trade regulation. I would like to make this very clear in the conclusion of my remarks. We therefore also want, among other things, a real liberalisation of trade access, because this is the prerequisite that well-trained but not normally well-trained people are given the opportunity to make themselves independent. As long as we have reasonable access as long as we have state of possession in the commercial registration system, we will actually be unable to make this changeover. And if we also – and this is a last Ceterum censeo in my word record today – do not decide to go away from compulsory insurance and come to an insurance obligation, which is also an essential element for the transition between self-employed and self-employed, then we will not be able to solve the problem, then we will sit in our small box, and more and more will stand outside the door, then we will not have the two-thirds, but then we will soon have the four-quarters or any society, and poverty will rise, and the wealth that will also rise will not benefit us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3698	Mr Karl Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3722	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised by the courage with which a government party is holding this debate under the title "Offensive labour market policy in times of budget consolidation". Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the Social Democratic Party! In this debate on offensive labour market policies, you cannot disappear over the fact that the figures you did not mention are not so positive. They cannot disappear from being one of the few EU countries with an increasing unemployment rate in Austria, and this also distinguishes us from countries with high levels of unemployment within the EU, such as Spain. Austria and the Federal Republic have rising unemployment rates. And you can't knock on your shoulder and say, We still have one of the lowest unemployment rates, because you know as well as I do that these unemployment rates will rise in the next few years. You can't go beyond the fact that we don't have an employment programme in Austria, that you started with your new government a year ago and said: There are billions spent on employment programmes, but there is still no concept of this, except for the roads that are still being built, on the power plants that still need to be built, and for me also on some tunnels that need to be dug so that you can come to your kind of employment policy. – This will not be enough to secure employment here in this country, and that is exactly what the figures from the construction industry show. You cannot disappear, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no employment policy at EU level – still a complete rejection of an employment policy! You cannot disappear, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no eco-tax concept that could actually relieve work and create jobs in the environment. And you cannot go beyond that, Minister of Finance, that the Minister of Finance is obviously not willing to give you the means you would need to pursue an active employment policy in order to pursue an active labour market policy. We voted here in this House a few weeks ago: Take back the funds that the EU will provide – over 3 billion – in order to create additional employment here in Austria, through an active labour market policy. You have voted in favour of this request. The figures you present in the field of active labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen, are only good for 1996. In all other years, according to what you have planned to do in advance, expenditure is falling. The expenses are falling! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Our proposal, Mr Koppler, was quite clear: Let us take the funds and use them for active employment policy, active labour market policy. [[Abg. Koppler: This is a keyword!]] What does it look like, Minister, in the field of active labour market policy, with start-ups, with the help of start-ups, to mark what you say with "existence", with "founder programme"? What's it look like? I have concrete letters from people who are unemployed for a long time who have been unemployed, who have been approved so that they can open up their own business, and now the funds are being deleted under the title, they are not available on the labour market. – These are your own measures that you have put in place to make the aid you have repeatedly announced unnecessary. And that's the problem. What about an experimental labour market policy, with the "Action 8000"? – It was you, Mr Minister, who, together with the liberals or due to the pressure that the liberals and the ÖVP have made, who replaced the "Action 8000" with a programme that is not currently adopted. What about the Sabbath year? What about a training guarantee for the unemployed – not only for young people, but for all adults? – We could afford that! What is it like with a law on working time, which not only includes flexibilization, Mr Koppler, but also a reduction in working time? Where is the word of the Social Democrats, namely the reduction of working time in relation to flexibilization? What is it like with an apprenticeship training, with a vocational training fund? - Nothing goes on. They are lagging behind and are selling it as an offensive labour market policy. What about your offensive labour market policy in recent weeks? – They run them against the unemployed, but not for the unemployed! Minister! It's no use to us if you're going to find some grueling words here! It won't help us if you find beautiful words. They must act – with or without turbo, we do not care, but in the interests of the workers and especially in the interests of the unemployed here in this country, because they deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3766	Mrs Mag. Ederer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3786	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make a comment on the question of compulsory insurance – compulsory insurance. I think this is a dangerous discussion, because I assume that social security is a bond that holds us together socially. And I understand from the liberal demands that, in the end, all these bands, Mr Deputies, are being questioned. I think that – if you look at where there is – it is dangerous in so far as it is another step towards tearing apart our society and ultimately allowing for a greater division. Some solidarity bands ensure that this society is one in which there is no such disintegration of society, and I believe that this is a quality of life for ministers, which would no longer be guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I really think this is a very difficult presentation. Liberalism in all areas – I understand that you are calling for it, but I believe that liberalism, the freedom of every individual, has limits where there is the need for solidarity of a community. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say on the question of employment policy: Successful employment policy is no longer just an instrument, and this is successful, but it means the interaction of several instruments. And that, I believe, is the first point of continuing to be a traditional employment policy. In contrast to Mr Oellinger, I believe that investment in infrastructure makes sense, that it is very good to create employment. Investments in telecommunications in our country are useful because they ensure employment, but also because Austria's location, as regards the question of media opportunities, is still positive, and this is an important prerequisite for investment in our country. This is an important question, and that is why traditional employment policies can never be obsolete. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There must also be other areas. In a country where 40 percent of what is being produced does not remain in that country but goes to an international market, this means that you are faced with international conditions and have to react to them. Now I see that national areas of play are going back in this area, and we have to regain these spaces at international level. This is a reason why I was in favour of joining the European Union, namely to achieve that 15 developed industrialised countries have a much stronger voice than a nation. It is, for example, a question – and that has already been said by Mr Novotny – to impose social and environmental minimum standards in international trade in order to ultimately avoid dumping. Next area: Of course, we continue to have national scope, which is also a further national competence, where it is also a matter of finding further national regulations. We must respond to changed developments. For example, it is not enough for us to be trained, to work on it and then to retire, but it will be more necessary to provide life-long learning. This certainly requires a change in the school system, but above all also a change in the question of the possibilities for each individual to acquire additional education. I personally believe that education is an important prerequisite for meeting this qualification need. If you look at who is unemployed today, you can simply say: The worse you are trained, the more likely you are to become unemployed. In other words, education is an important prerequisite for combating unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are currently faced with a rapidly growing demand in the field of services. Our problem is that this is very publicly funded in Western industrial societies. That is, it is at budgetary limits. It is about thinking about the question: How can we get out of this sheer, how can we convert the current employment in the service sector – very often black and illegal – into legal employment? . I think it is absolutely positive that Federal Minister Hums, with activities, such as the follow-up action of "Action 8000", is trying to get long-term unemployed people, who are longer unemployed, back into this employment process with the help of premiums. The aim is to get unemployed in long-term employment, because one is already safe: If you work black today and think that you don't need it all and be insured, 50, 52 will be disappointed that you have no pension rights and no social security. That is why it is also necessary to get out of the illegality and into the right employment in order to enable long-term security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3862	I call Mr Ellmauer. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3883	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the long run, jobs can only be created and secured by businesses or companies which generate profits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These profits are essential in order to be able to make investments and modernisations at all, which in turn are essential for the inventory of businesses and their competitiveness. [[Abg. Müller: See Semperit!]] The policy in Austria is called on to shape the framework conditions for our economy in such a way that, despite increased international competition, it can best exist. Positive measures, such as the abolition of commercial and capital taxes, should be complemented by appropriate simplification of the right of establishment. The draft proposal presented by the EIA contains a real deregulation in this area: Procedural concentration – rather than three or four procedures only more than one – process acceleration – is delayed due consideration is no longer taken of, similar to the Civil Procedure Regulation – changes to the project in the ongoing procedure – the procedure is continued, taking into account the changes and not re-started – the abolition of the special position of labour inspectors – they are expected to have normal party position in the future. The simplified approval procedure should be extended, there should be recognition of plant facilities already approved under other legislation, such as the exclusion of municipal district heating facilities – these do not require new approval in the future – and so on. These reform steps will provide an important impetus not only for small and medium-sized enterprises but also for the whole of the Austrian economy to benefit from these innovations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An equally important area is the re-regulation of loading opening times. We will be forced, above all in the future, to introduce the flexibility of working hours in a wide range of areas. The pace of internal change of businesses must be adapted to the speed of the external change of the market so that we do not lose our economic position. In the future, the greater operation on the market will not be able to rise, but the more flexible and faster. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Maintaining the current regulations would mean disadvantages to our economic location in Austria. Another clear word: The Austrian People's Party is not for a reduction of social achievements, but for a healthy view and a fair balance of interests and goods. It is necessary to make reasonable changes in order to secure the establishments or the location. It is a question of existence for Austria to face these challenges and adapt to international developments. In the important area of apprenticeship promotion, the ÖVP has also presented a comprehensive programme for ensuring and increasing training places. According to the success of reducing health insurance contributions by 1.5 percent, the co-insurance of apprentices with parents should be sought at least in the first two years of education. Furthermore, an apprenticeship allowance of 30 percent of the effort will benefit the training firm again. The creation of new careers, recognition of the master's examination in the public service as well as the Matura and so on complete this programme. For the first time in a few years, the investment of the Austrian industry has been increasing again. While a decrease of 18.5% in 1993 and 9.6% in 1994 was recorded, they rose by 4.5% in 1995. This led in particular to our accession to the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We started the "Economics tomorrow" project in Upper Austria in 1989 as part of our "Future" action. In 1994 we adapted this project and adapted it to the changed framework conditions. We had to take into account the opening of the East and the accession of the EU. Now, in 1996, we have continued the third stage, the regionalization of the economy with modern high-tech methods: Networking of jobs through computer, setting up of appropriate infrastructure and interfaces for modern communication and information for businesses, i.e. tech centres, especially in order to ensure secure jobs and secure income for our citizens in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3946	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3967	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Minister of Social Affairs, has repeatedly pointed out that employment policy is the highest challenge for Austria and for Europe as a whole, and the goal must be to achieve full employment again. However, the number of unemployed, ladies and gentlemen, continues to rise in Austria. Today, we have seasonally adjusted values in Austria of 4.1 percent, which is still significantly lower than the European average at just under 11 percent, but this simply cannot calm us if the trend continues to rise. And the duration of unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, with this rising trend, which at the end of September 1996 is 149 days longer than in the previous year, should actually give us thought. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is because, ladies and gentlemen, the duration of unemployment is getting longer and longer. The unemployment rate of September 1996 is 191,867, and the percentage is 5.8 percent. In principle, there is the largest growth rate for the 30 to 49 years old and for the 15 to 19 years old – in construction, health, teaching and technical professions. The number of reported open positions decreased by 20 percent compared to the previous year. It has also been pointed out by the Minister for Social Affairs today that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. But the figures simply show that the trend is rising in the 15-19 years and we are at risk of achieving the same unemployment as in the rest of Europe. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also well known that the number of open apprenticeships in Austria is much lower than the number of job seekers – the difference is about 15 000. That was not the case in the past. The fact that one should be taxed against this is that the Federal Government has also always meant it again and again. We have been demanding from the liberals for years that they be opposed and that an offensive be introduced for the apprentices. – You haven't done anything to this day. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] New working agreements have been announced to be in the XX. A legislative period to pursue an active labour market policy in order to strengthen the skills policy for the unemployed and the workers whose jobs are at risk. – Dear ladies! I don't see anything about it. [[Abg. Then open your eyes, Sigisbert!]] For example, if a carpenter who wants to attend the Master's School does not come into a work foundation if he is not unemployed, he cannot attend it at all because he must carry all the social benefits himself, be insured himself. Where's the justice? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same happens to a mason who wants to attend a polish school. If he is not unemployed, he should not come to a job foundation, he cannot attend this polishing school because he just falls out of the entire social fabric. He must insure himself if he is not unemployed and refers to unemployment benefit and is not in a job foundation. Ladies and gentlemen! It is announced here that something is to be done for workers who are at risk of jobs. But then the same right should apply to these people as to the unemployed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a vicious circle!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where have the SPÖ promises been realized in the 1994 election programme, namely to create 150,000 new jobs? ==References== October 1994: The SPÖ's objective is 150 000 new jobs. – Kostelka, the clubman of the SPÖ: The SPÖ is about the agreed creation of additional 200 000 jobs. Well, two years have passed. Now our Federal Chancellor is only talking about 80 000 new jobs he wants to create. He said that in February 1996. He still shoots the bird. But jobs are not created by sending out foreign employees, but by obtaining orders. It also seems to me that the labour force is being brought back to Austria, but the work is being transferred abroad. In the country of Schlaraffen, however, we are not in Austria, because poverty is increasing rapidly in Austria. The Austrian Federal Chamber of Commerce even manages to write a seminar on how to produce in the East. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who was that? The Federal Chamber of Commerce?]] This is an initiative of the Economic Chamber of Lower Austria. I quote: Those who in times of global competition under pressure are looking for cost-saving opportunities should be...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4052	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4068	Of course, Mr President. I quote: Which country is the right one for my company? Are the workers there sufficiently qualified? – With production on and off into the reform states of the former East! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is an initiative of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Commerce!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4103	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4124	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I now make my contribution to the current subject, Mrs Ederer, I would like to reject your statement that, in our intention to increase the gap between the poor and the rich, it is also very strongly on behalf of my colleague Kier. What it really is about us is to create the best possible means of development for all people on the basis of effective social security. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Mrs. Ederer did not understand that!]] I am not at all accustomed by Mrs Ederer to such regulations. But now back to the offensive labour market policy. We've been discussing these here for about an hour. In fact, everyone here assumes the premise that women would be equal on the labour market anyway, so it does not require entirely targeted measures to promote women. The situation for women is currently particularly sad. The situation on the labour market is under pressure. This is where the women's disadvantaged savings package has made its contribution. The trend "Women home to the stove" actually becomes more noticeable day after day. You see this very clearly when you look at the figures for the above-mentioned unemployed. The number of women is increasing dramatically. For example, the number of identified unemployed rose by 0.9 per cent compared with September 1996 to September 1995 in men and by 7.6 per cent in women. For the first time in years, the female employment rate is falling. Finally, the policy objectives have changed accordingly. One of the most important points for women, namely a gender equality policy as an integral part of economic and structural policy, has disappeared from the new coalition agreement, just as awareness of this issue seems to have disappeared from the minds of those responsible. Thus, in all the well-known reports on the economic situation of Austria, whether by the Federal Chancellor, whether by the Minister of Finance or by the Minister of Economic Affairs, the word "woman" was not even mentioned. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we need a targeted labour market offensive for women. But we also need a redistribution of the work between men and women. This becomes all the more important, the more oppressive the situation on the labour market. The labour market is segmented in gender. Women's jobs are paid worse than men's jobs. Full - time work seems to become more and more a right for men. Part-time work, minor jobs are constantly falling to women. Paid employment is reserved for men. Women have to do unpaid work in the field of care. Mr Khol is not here today, but this sensible statement comes from him that family policy would be social policy, of which women are highly affected. – Women should therefore remain as non-refundable social workers of the Republic, without social security. Women's discrimination is diverse. The rate of discrimination in the field of education is alarmingly high. Almost 27 percent of women aged 25 to 30 still do not have a degree beyond compulsory school. Women are well below their qualifications. The field of vocational education and training, especially when it comes to executive positions, remains – even in the Federal Service – a male domain in the end. We need a female-specific catalogue of measures, particularly in the field of education, particularly in the field of adult education. We need new forms of work, more flexible working time models and a comprehensive reform of the industrial system in order not to continue to prevent the entry into self-employment for women more or less without reason. Above all, the labour market service may also fulfil its legal mandate. I am thinking in particular of the promotion of teaching places for girls in men's occupations. Minister! I had the opportunity to report to you. The labour market service is more depressing and hindering. If it is serious for the parties involved to reduce discrimination,...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4165	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4180	... then I would propose to regionalise the equal treatment prosecutions as the first step. The cost contribution would be about 15 million schilling, but we probably have to wait a few more years.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4211	Mrs Mag. Kammerlander.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4232	Mr President. Minister! This is the current hour, as did my previous speaker, which is particularly concerned with the women's policy aspect of this debate. However, I would like to add another aspect which seems to me quite up-to-date. There are a number of reports, which is so common in autumn, and on this occasion your ministry once again praises all the women's policies you are taking, especially in the labour market policy. There you can read about qualification measures, vocational orientation courses, support for persons with care responsibilities – a whole latte of wonderful things, like a filling horn. [[Abg. Oh, thank you, great!]] Only, it is nowhere, and I do not think it is deliberately mentioned in any report which has fallen victim to these measures of the so-called structural adjustment or the savings package. Because, please, it's a farce to stand on one side and say what's on the paper, if you leave the other side completely out of sight, that's what there's been a long time ago. And that is not just the imagination of a green Member, that there is no longer, but that is reality. Even though you, Mr Minister, your place of business, your ministry and the labour market service institutions in the countries obviously refuse to follow it in concrete terms and do not put any official data on the table, which are supported by these specific women-promoting measures, qualification courses, vocational orientation courses and so on, and to what extent, we have a picture and know it. And I'll tell you one thing, Minister: We will not be satisfied with your inactivity. I think it's a rather unscrupulous or unscrupulous kind of policy to say that there's everything, but I'm not checking how it really works and whether these courses, as they are, are adequate. But above all, it will not be examined what will be the victim of the austerity measures which you have to pass on to the regional authorities. We'll do such a search next year. We will go from association to association, from facility to facility and try to research that if you are not willing to put the documents on the table about which these measures are still being applied at all. We have been able to read in the paper yesterday that a highly positive, qualified project, which is the AQUA project, which is clearly also being assessed by the public, is failing and is signaling it. And that's not a project of the autonomous women's scene. This is a project that has been set up with the support of the AMS and which, since its existence, has had to struggle with constant delay in fulfilling promises and with long processing times of applications – with all the things that all know – especially women – who work and work in this field. There are a lot of obstacles that you can install over and over again: The processing of applications takes too long, then something should be changed again – and that does not fit again. Who pays the working time of women working in the field? – That’s one chapter once. The other thing is, of course, that the mutilation demands its price, which you obviously intend to do. Many throw the towel and say: I just don't do that! And so all these beautiful measures that you proclaim and list here in your reports remain on the track, and out of it, nothing but paper that you then distribute and report on here. I could list a whole list of such initiatives, such institutions, such groups, such associations that can no longer work. And one thing is already aware and clear to us: that there is a lot to do in this area of qualification, vocational orientation – that is undisputed – that there is a lot of consulting hours that you never pay, which you never compensate for. What you are doing more and more is that you are buying services from the office, but not taking into account that all these facilities also have to exist, have infrastructure costs, have personnel costs. You deliberately rely on the self-exploitation factor of women so that something comes and you can achieve anything so that you may be able to write on a project: That was nice. But again: The summee can be read in yesterday's newspaper. And that was just one of many projects that you originally supported and promoted. We will certainly be able to report to you next year if you are not willing to put these on the table from here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4270	The Federal Minister has once again asked for the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4291	Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of my obligation to provide information, I would like to state clearly: We have more than 1.5 billion Schilling at our disposal this year in the area of active labour market policy. We have much more resources available for women's promotion and we also use them. In addition, the Community initiatives of the European Union are still coming. Therefore: There is no less, but more resources – much more resources – for the active promotion of women in the field of labour market policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4318	The current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4340	I refer to the written communication in the sense of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the negotiated items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4670	Furthermore, the 1978 International Convention on Standards of Training, the issue of certificates of qualification and the watchmanship of seafarers, together with resolutions on amendments to the Convention (345 of Supplements) have been adopted. After consultation with the members of the President's Conference and after considering all aspects, we have decided to refrain from assigning to a committee, and to put it on the agenda for one of the next meetings of the National Council, with regard to the presentation on the watchman's service of seamen. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. It is therefore being done in this way. I would also like to inform the National Council, in accordance with the agreement at the Presidential Conference, that due to the results of the partial repetition of the 1995 National Council election, on 13 November 1995 the Council of Ministers of the European Union, has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. A change in the composition of the main committee occurred in October 1996. According to § 30 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is now composed of 12 members of the SPÖ, 8 members of the ÖVP, 7 members of the parliamentary club and 1 member of the Liberal Forum and Green Clubs. I would ask you to take note of this. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4704	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request that the question put in writing before the date of today's meeting be dealt with in writing by Dr Petrovic and comrades to Mrs Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection concerning the use of Rule 16 of the Release Directive. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the implementation of this urgent question shall be fixed at 3.30 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4729	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform Mr Magistrate. Peter requested that the Economic and Social Committee report on Parliament's motion for a resolution 14/A. Peter and comrades concerning a federal law on the pursuit of commercial activities until 31. ==References====External links== There is also a desire to have a short debate on this. This should be taken into account within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. However, as an urgent question has already been put for today's sitting and its proceedings have been fixed at 3.30 p.m., this brief debate on the request for a deadline will be held following the urgent request. The vote will be taken immediately after the debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4755	As far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up points 1 to 6, 7 to 9, 10 to 12 and 13 to 15. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4779	Consensus on the duration and organisation of the debates on today's agenda has been reached in the presidential conference as follows: For all items on the agenda, a block speaking time of seven "Vienna hours" has been agreed, which divides as follows: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then it is decided by common accord. 1. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (342 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Foundation and Participation in the National Park Society Donau-Auen G.m.b.H. and on the amendment 270/A (E) by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Otmar Brixund Comrades concerning the Danube Auen National Park (353 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 23/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades on the reduction of fleet consumption (306 of supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 32/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on the National Environmental Plan and Federal Waste Management Plan as strategic instruments of the Austrian waste management (307 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 21/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades on the extension of the National Accounts (354 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 15/A (E) by Mr Rudolf Anschober and others on the contemplation of hydroelectric power station Lambach (355 of the supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 170/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades concerning the withdrawal of competence to establish feed-in tariffs for electricity to the national leaders, in so far as supplies of electrical electricity from wind energy, biomass, biogas and photovoltaic plants are affected by this (356 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4895	We come to points 1 to 6 of the agenda. On these issues, the debate is being held together, as it has just been stated. These are: Reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (342 of the Supplements), Federal Law on the Establishment and Participation in the G.m.b.H. National Park, Request 270/A (E) of Members Head, Brix and comrades concerning Donau-Auen National Park (353 of the Supplements), motion 23/A (E) of Deputies Mag. Barmüller and comrades on the reduction of fleet consumption, motion 32/A (E) for a resolution by Mr Aumayr and Mr comrades on the National Environmental Plan and Federal Waste Management Plan as strategic instruments for waste management, and Amendment 21/A (E) by Mr Barmüller and Mr Comrades on the extension of the national accounts, further requests 15/A (E) by Mr Anschober and Mr comrades on the follow-up to the Lambach hydroelectric power plant and Mr 170/A (E) of Mr Barmüller and Mr Comrades on the withdrawal of competence to set feed tariffs for electricity to the national leaders. There is no need for oral reporting, so this will not happen either. Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayr spoke. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4928	Minister! Mr President. High house! The opening of the Donau-Auen National Park on 26 March. October was one of the best examples of what it looks like to be adorned with foreign feathers. Mr Bartenstein, Mr Pröll! Both of you have now become the creators of the National Park. If, however, we remember that twelve years ago – in the case of chilly cold – environmentalists demonstrated against power plant construction, then we must say: These were on their own. Remember the advertising campaign of the association: In Austria the lights go out if this power plant is not built, the economic location of Austria is in danger, jobs are destroyed. The construction workers were fired against the environmentalists. "crazy professional demonstrators" – all possible abuses had to be made by these people, physical injuries, threats, even on their hair, these environmentalists were partially dragged through the au. And again and again the threats of the parties, the politicians: The lights go out if not reddished and not stowed. It was quite similar with Zwentendorf. With the same arguments, with a million advertising for the nuclear power plant, it was advertised. At the time it was threatened, even then "the lights" went out, at the time "the economy broke together", it was said, and the Ztentendorf nuclear power plant was absolutely certain. All the opponents were also those who refused to progress at the time, were uneducated, stupid. Minister! These two examples, Hainburg and Zwentendorf, are evidence that at the time politicians were at work, who either did not tell the truth or were very mistaken. [[Abg. May. Steindl: You weren't there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The Freemen!]] The liberals were against the Zwentendorf nuclear power plant, if you remember! Of course! The liberals were the only party against it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In all cases, the competent politicians have made false forecasts. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Your government!]] Minister! How do you feel as a politician if you open a national park like you, where, in your opinion, a power plant should have been built? – Of course: They have "never" opposed this power plant! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Pui, that was embarrassing!]] The fact that this government proposal for the establishment of the National Park is only half-finished is kept silent. And it is also to be kept in mind that the fundamental redemption has not taken place and is done with unfair methods. It would be much more honest, Mr Federal Minister, if you would make the property owners clear and open offers for these compensations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They do so in other areas where there is public interest. If a motorway is built or if KV lines are to be built, you can also reach out to the property owners and place offers on how high the groundwork is to be. Why don't you do it in this case? They divide the society: Because the good ones that are for the National Park, and there the evils that are against the National Park. It's just not true! One thing has to be said quite clearly: We cannot reduce environmental policy to the creation of national parks. In the National Park, the environment is protected, but outside of that, the word is spoken of as a natural destruction. It must be clear to us that two generations on this earth have spent more resources than all other generations before us. And the ecological tax reform – although it is in all its mouths – is simply not being introduced. If the EU Commissioners are talking about the CO2 tax, then always with the addition that this tax system also applies to the USA, including Japan, which means a shift to the Sankt-Nimmerlein day. When EU accession, operated by this government with all vehemence, was also threatened, promised, the opponents were again put as stupid and uneducated, as a refusal of progress and as enemies of Europe. There the same game was driven as at Hainburg, as at Zwentendorf, only to a much greater extent. Federal Minister! It was promised to the Austrians that environmental standards would remain in Austria, that Austrian MEPs in the European Parliament would be initiated in Brussels in order to apply the higher environmental standards for the whole of the EU. You said the untruth, Minister of State! You know very well that if we maintain our higher environmental standards in Austria, we will lose jobs, let alone whether we can enforce ourselves in the European Union or in the European Parliament with 21 Members who cannot even make a request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You can introduce the strictest environmental legislation in Austria – it simply does not use anything if products can be imported into Austria, which have been produced under much lower eco-standards. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein speaks to Abg. Suspicion.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Anna Elisabeth, you have to wait a little!]] Mr Anschober. Three minutes please! You're still on the list of speakers, I think. Mr President, I should like to thank I'll tell you what I'm proposing: Imports of foreign apples into Austria must be authorised to be made with pesticides banned in Austria – this is not a free trade, it is a forced trade, Mr Colleague! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is an absolutely xenophobic system, which says: In France hybrid apples are produced cheaper – that is, you rip out your apple trees in Austria! Or an economic argument: In Turkey, in Greece, leather is produced cheaper – so close your tanberries in Austria! – And that is also the case, which really happens every day. The only way for Austria's economic and environmental location – and I come to the proposal, Mr Kopf – is to protect ourselves with protective tariffs as long as there are so great differences between the environmental, social and wage standards in other countries. Because if you continue to speak about this boundless liberalisation and globalisation of the economy, we will receive mass unemployment in the country. [[Abg. Head: And then do we give up our export?]] Mr President, I should like to thank Why do you think that the companies are out of business that the Chamber of Commerce of Lower Austria is holding seminars on how to produce in the East, as my colleague Dolinschek pointed out earlier? Why do the companies produce in the East? – Because there are significantly lower environmental standards and a significantly lower wage standard there. As long as this system is maintained, you risk the environmental standard of Austria, our partly excellent environmental laws and our jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5070	The next speaker is Mr Schrefel. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5091	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Federal Minister! A lot of water has flown down the Danube, before last Sunday Minister of Environment Bartenstein as well as head of state Pröll and mayor Häupl have signed the founding certificate for the Donau-Auen National Park. A quarter of a century after Zwentendorf and twelve years after the memorable civilian resistance on the site of the then planned Hainburg power plant, the establishment of the National Park ensures a unique natural paradise. The People's Party, Mrs Aumayr, certainly does not adorn itself with foreign feathers, as you said earlier. [[Abg. Meisinger: Wrong!]] The People's Party, under the Secretary General Othmar Karas, was with the Auschütz, and her party, Mrs. Collaborator, was in the government of Sinowatz at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In March 1991, the company Marchfeldkanal was commissioned to establish a national park concept on behalf of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Federal States of Lower Austria and Vienna. The National Park Forum was also established in 1991 as an organ of civil participation, the members of which represent the interests of the local population. The four variants developed for a national park Donau-Auen show a certain range in decision-making. More than 50 scientists have cooperated, over 25 studies have been written externally on behalf of the operating company. Even massive opponents have not been able to identify material shortcomings in this concept. The polemic argumentation of the opponents confirms the high quality of the concept. The desire of the high and highest politicians in 1996 to open up a national park of the Danube Auen in recent years, i.e. the Millennium Year, was a reason to take a first and final step and first to take under contract 9 300 hectares, which are exclusively in public hands. The signatures under the Convention are the end of a stage and the beginning of the next epoch in the development of the National Park. Now everything has to be done to gain the trust of the population in the region, especially as a national park cannot be targeted against the interests of the people living there. The 15a agreement, which has now been signed, initially includes these 9 300 hectares – in the final development, the national park area will be extended to around 11 500 hectares. The current National Park model can be considered efficient and cost-effective. From 1997 on, 44 million Schilling will be available as a National Park budget. The environment resorts to 22 million Schilling, the second half of which are shared by the Länder of Lower Austria and Vienna. This is a slim national park that will cost no more than 60 million schilling during its final expansion phase. The current variant "Status quo" is based on the principle of voluntaryness – I expressly emphasize that. Private property owners are expected to receive concrete offers. For example: What changes in use are taking place, which compensations and charges are available for this? The property owners can then voluntarily decide whether to participate or not. From the experience with the Hohe Tauern National Park we know that, after initial skepticism, the inhabitants of many villages insist that their communities will also become national parks – this will not be different at the Danube. So let us not be dissatisfied with what we have achieved, and let us first be content with a small national park. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is a natural display window to a unique and species-rich piece of nature, the entrance gate of which is the city of Vienna – which is unique and unique. My group will gladly approve of this Treaty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say that the decision for the Donau-Auen National Park is also so important because it demonstrates the credibility of our environmental policy. I therefore no longer want to comment on the discussion "Powerworks Yes or No". We too are proud of the opening act, because it concludes a peace pact with nature. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5141	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5162	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the peace pact with nature has now been concluded in the Au, but I assure you, Mr Schrefel, that the war with the opposition to this one law is only beginning. Perhaps the word "war" in this context is a bit too martial, but one thing is clear: The nostalgic statements made here have nothing to do with the real issue on the agenda today, because it is not about the National Park and its establishment – this is already "eat" – but about what this society, which is now to manage the National Park, should look like. However, neither Mrs Aumayr nor Mr Schrefel have said anything in any way. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the Liberals are, of course, in favour of a society to do this. This is necessary because otherwise you cannot really implement the National Park. But we do not see that from this important point of view, under this eco-manufacturer, the Federal Government has already tried to hide something that does not belong to it: Subsidies to the Austrian Federal Forest, which are simply not necessary. Here under the cover, to do something for nature, money is taken out of the left pocket of the state and put back into the right pocket. That's not what we're going to do. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's outrageous!]] The Federal Minister Bartenstein casts off the government bank – and he has already said this in the discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – that the concept of ownership of the Liberals seems to be a bit more disturbed – in a sense, not verbatim. I repeat, Federal Minister, that, after the Austrian Federal Forests are not even their own society, they are only an independent economic entity and are completely owned by the state, but cannot be seriously claimed here that the federal government gives itself a compensation. The fact is that every hectare of the Federal Forest must ultimately be shot by the federal government. And now the activity that has brought the losses into the field of Au is being discontinued, and now you say: If these losses are no longer in place, there can no longer be any such grants, then we have to think of something else. Then we say that the restriction on use, which is given here, must ultimately be compensated. It would be no problem to talk to the Liberals, Mr Federal Minister, if you were not guided by the loss of revenue in these compensations, but only by the loss of profit. That would be an approach, but that is not the case. It is assumed that there is no longer any possible supply of wood, and this amount will be replaced. It is not put into relation that costs are also saved here and that other uses – such as hunting for example – can generate increased revenue. This has not been the subject of the calculation of this compensation, and I therefore remain with it: This is, to the extent that it is granted, a subsidy and not compensation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There can also be no doubt that this process, in which losses are covered - under whatever cover - any pressure on reform, which must finally take place in the area of the Austrian Federal Forest, will be stopped. To this end, I should like to quote from a survey which is praiseworthyly made by the Austrian Federal Forests themselves, in order to identify the weaknesses they have in their field, and to initiate a business development that is really useful for the Austrian Federal Forest as a company. According to this survey, there is a particular need for action among the employees of the Austrian Federal Forests, in the very complicated and complex working processes and in the low customer and market orientation. And what sounds so abstract here, ladies and gentlemen, when you look at the specific numbers, you have a completely different face. On the question of whether there is such a sort of security mentality in the Austrian Federal Forests, where no one trusts in making something independent, but asks everyone to the very top, so to the question whether this protection culture exists, 83.7 percent say yes. Whether it is more important to satisfy the superior first and then the customer, at least 66 percent say yes. The employees have the feeling of being unmistakable, feel that they are not being taken seriously, because on the question: Don't you feel taken seriously? Do you feel as an unmistakable person within the framework of the structure of the Austrian Federal Forests?, say 74.1 percent of employees: Yes, we are unmistakable in our tasks within the framework of the Austrian Federal Forest. And, ladies and gentlemen, 63.8 percent of the employees say that in the Austrian Federal Forests they are used to thinking and acting independently. As positive as it is that such an investigation has been initiated by this company at all, ladies and gentlemen, it is not to be seen that such measures, as I described earlier, are being put under pressure from the company. We do not think that the Austrian Federal Forests should be quietly and secretly subsidized here, but we also demand that it be made politically clear that these reforms must be implemented in the company. And in doing so, Mr Federal Minister, that we are told that we are now making an AG out of the independent economic body, it cannot remain. Because if the Austrian Federal Forests are distributed as AG, that does not mean at all that the structures really change. And, ladies and gentlemen, it does not mean that there will be a different culture in the company, because the question – I quote again from this already mentioned survey among the employees – whether the disbursement of the Federal Forests from the State budget – and only the question is that they will be expelled from the budget, not to privatize it, but only to remove it from the budget – will bring that margin that is necessary to ensure that the organisational simplifications can really be carried out, only 41.6 percent of the employees there say yes and 55.4 percent say: No, nothing will change. You see, ladies and gentlemen, it is cosmetics that is made in this context, and that is being vehemently rejected by us. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am so glad that a whole block of environmental issues will finally be discussed at the beginning of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, so sad that I am not talking about very important proposals, which are also on the agenda today and which belong to this block. I am glad that it was possible – ultimately based on a liberal request on the ecologicalisation of the national accounts – to reach a consensus and to come to a not particularly stringent, not particularly pressured request, but to a joint declaration of will by all five parties of this House, which means that the national accounts must at least be extended to environmental factors by the year 2000. This is something which will be decided today by all five political groups and is useful and where it is necessary, precisely because there has been work by the government for years, to put real pressure on it. It is therefore good that this joint motion calls for an interim report by Mr Bundeskanzler for the year 1997, and it is also useful that the ÖSTAT should not only, but in cooperation with private individuals, carry out this extension of the national accounts, which is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you only of the struggle, of the conflicts of a verbal nature which we had here in the House when it came to providing regional energy balances throughout Austria. It was about things that private companies already have, but the ÖSTAT was simply unable to provide these figures and facts because of its structure. And you have vehemently refused to resort to what the private economy has already made available, with the argument that you can't spend money on it, you have to because you have staff and structure to do it all yourself. It was not taken into account that this also caused costs internally. This billing will not be made. In addition, the ÖSTAT raises in many areas things that have already been raised by private companies and should be bought in meaningfully. It should not be tried by ÖSTAT to do all of this itself. There are no regional energy balances from the ÖSTAT itself to this day, but they can still be obtained from private companies. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen: We welcome the fact that the national accounts will at least be extended by the year 2000 by a part which will also allow for an assessment of our resources, including the fact that resource consumption, such as landscape consumption through power plants, for example environmental accidents, is something that must have a negative impact on national accounts, and not just as it is now that this will achieve an increase in economic prosperity, because it requires employment to repair this, and only these benefits will be made available while the loss of resources does not occur. The last point I want to take out and where I really don't understand why we couldn't come to a common solution, especially when it comes to the use of electricity produced by renewable energy sources, is a very strong insistence on a clear regulation of feed-in tariffs in Austria: This question, ladies and gentlemen, has still been resolved under the Federal Minister Schüssel that a voluntary agreement with the individual energy supply companies has been concluded for a limited period of three years, and this voluntary agreement now runs by 1. 1. ==References== The fact is that we have the legal instrument to establish ecologically oriented, objectively justified higher feed-in rates for renewable energy sources. It would be the task of the heads of state to do so – so far it has not happened. In individual countries where national leaders have become active on this issue, they have either not determined the time, or they have limited it from the performance of the installations to the extent that only those who already exist are supported: But a real swing, e.g. in biomass or wind energy, will not come in. I can refer here to the German example: There is a feed-in law there, which has led to the booming of the wind power industry in Germany since 1990. It has been possible in this industry to create 15,000 new jobs, and that would be something that would be possible and useful in Austria, especially in the field of biomass plants, but this Federal Government consistently refuses those framework conditions that would really allow this. The request made by the Liberals to ensure that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs becomes active in this context has been rejected. We also note, therefore, Mr Federal Minister, that this is a violation of precisely those principles which you and the Federal Government have set out in the national environmental plan, which were set out in the 1993 Energy Report by this Federal Government and by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs – at the time that was still the case. We are convinced that this way of making policies will not be judged, especially in the field of the environment. We hope that this will not be forgotten and that it will be recognised that the monopolistic structures of energy supply in Austria will be preferred to an ecologically meaningful and ultimately useful implementation of renewable energy sources in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5225	Mr Kiermaier has referred to an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to the short speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5249	Unfortunately, Mrs Aumayr has just gone out. She has just explained literally that the Chamber of Economics of Lower Austria – and I am one of its Vice-Presidents – is organising seminars for production in Eastern Europe. That can't be! That's not true! I just made a phone call to the board, I called the Bureau. The title of this event is: "With production on and off. Seminar on the prevention of the migration of holdings to Eastern Europe."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5280	The next speaker is Mr Otmar Brix. He's got the floor. The clock is set to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5304	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Sunday was truly a beautiful and great day for this country, for this Austria. We can all be proud that in 1996, the millennium celebration of Austria, this Donau-Auen National Park could be built. This construction is a century chance for Austria and its nature conservation. It is particularly important for our children that this National Park could be built. Ladies and gentlemen! Several studies have shown that the Danube region in Vienna and east from Vienna to the state border are suitable for the establishment of a national park. In the case of the power plant variants, the criteria of a natural au are no longer met, so a side by side of a national park and a power plant is no longer possible. The opportunity for international recognition of the National Park is guaranteed only with free flow. The free flow line of the Danube must be guaranteed, a kind of softy national park cannot be in our interest, because nature, ladies and gentlemen, is not renewable. I am therefore very glad that it was clearly stated last week that there will not be any power plant building below Vienna. It declared this on last Thursday by the Director-General of the Association Society, Johann Haider, in the Court of Auditors Committee, and on Sunday on the signing of the contract the national leaders Dr. Häupl and Dr. Pröll as well as Federal Minister Bartenstein once again declared: There is no power plant building east of Vienna. I therefore believe that the opinions that have been expressed in recent weeks and, above all, the news launched by different media about a power plant construction is unnecessary and not necessary. One thing I would like to say: A comprehensive environmental and nature protection is not compatible with the construction of a power plant. Austria has over 90 running power plants with a power of 5 megawatts each. With the Freudnau work alone, which has an output of 1,037 million kilowatt hours a year, more than half of the energy needs of the Vienna households are already covered. Austria's electricity demand is covered by this, so a power plant is unnecessary there. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, that drinking water reserves in the Danube are secured with this National Park, but they are one of the most quantitative and high-quality occurrences in Austria. A national park secures these drinking water reserves. This national park, ladies and gentlemen, has also created new opportunities for tourism for Vienna and Lower Austria. There will be economic impulses in this region, and I believe that the economic impulses in this region will also be very necessary. In addition, you have a unique recreation room in this large nature reserve between Vienna and Bratislava. No world city can boast of lying at the entrance gate to a national park. This is reserved for the Vienneses, and with Lower Austria they share together... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Not even Chicago!]] Mr. Federal Minister, not even Chicago has such a beautiful national park at its doors. Ladies and gentlemen! At present this National Park comprises 9 300 hectares. It is also true that society is a very slim, efficient society and that payments are fair. It is not, therefore, as Mr Barmüller has said here. Let me conclude by saying: On Sunday, this 15a Treaty was signed, but now it is also necessary to do information work for the people who have not yet been won for the National Park. Unfortunately, in the preparation period some things happened, which was not in the interest of the population, and many misinformation was passed on. But not only has it not worked the preparation, it is also interesting to observe the zigzag line that the liberals have followed with the National Park in recent days, weeks and years. If Mrs. Aumayr has still taken a stand on the side of the National Park advocates and with her also Federal Managing Director Schweitzer, the Lower Austrian Freedom Party has clearly taken a stand against the National Park and is thus actually operating in this way: What we might lose in votes on the one hand, we can win on the other side. Or better: One says that, the other says that so that we win votes on both sides. This is the zigzag line of the liberals, which is FPÖ: Just honest, just FPÖ! I think we can be proud that this national park was created in the sense of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5345	The next item is Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It is a comprehensive environmental debate that we can hold here today. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Monika! Could be!]] Could be, yes. Unfortunately, most of the SPÖ and ÖVP representatives are still on record and are looking for the "Turbo". [[Call the SPÖ:Where are the Greens?]] Well, with us, the relationship is different. Unfortunately, we are only nine Members, you are over 70. On average, you should be much more there. All right. At least those who are still here come up with a bit of a swing after we have had such a quiet debate so far and have not yet been addressed to the core points. Like my previous speakers, I would like to start with the supposedly historic day, the last Sunday: Signing of the 15a contract for a national park Donau-Auen. Three politicians took part in the celebration: Minister of the Environment Bartenstein, head of state Pröll and head of state Häupl. It was a bit of a picturesque event. Mr Umweltminister, you and your colleagues are welcome to stand there, "The Au is free!" to say and "No more power plant is built!" What hurt a little is that none of the high politicians in his speech responded to the fact that the real heroes were those who at the time were frozen in the au 12 years ago, sitting there in the cold and really held their heads against the resistance of these two parties, the SPÖ and the ÖVP, in the proverbial sense. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] For example, Mr Wabl was there, Mr Oellinger was there, and so was I. We were quite active at the time, and of course we were pleased that on Sunday, after twelve years of debate, after studies by all sides with methods of prevention that were really massive, this National Park was finally brought under the cover of this subject. I believe that the National Park Society, which we decide here today and which is then to take over the management – we do not ratify the 15a Treaty – has yet to improve. We Greens will be the only opposition parties to the establishment of this establishment society, because we think it is time to start with a reasonable management now, and because we believe that the question with the Austrian Federal Forests has actually been resolved in a serious way. There is no doubt that the Austrian Federal Forests need for change, but they belong to the area of the Federal Forest Law and not to this law, which concerns the establishment of the National Park Society, which is intended to protect the Danube Auen National Park. This should therefore not be discussed or criticized here. So we are glad that the whole thing is finally under control, but Marga Hubinek, the former Second President of the National Council, a very prominent ÖVP politician, said something very right at the opening ceremony. It was the only speaker there who drew attention to something essential, namely that it is not about the fact that the Signatories are now celebrating themselves and pointing out how glorious their actions were, but rather to look at how valuable biotopes, valuable nature are still being destroyed in Austria, and how they continue to be maintained in a large, conservative and false energy policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] On Sunday, Marga Hubinek said that one must face the whole with a smiling and crying eye: with a smiling eye, of course, because after twelve years we managed to protect a very important area in Austria, hopefully, and with a crying eye, because power plants are still being built, although every person in Austria knows that we no longer need power supplies in Austria. [[Abg. Wabl: Lambach!]] Lambach, first of all, but of course also the Lech project, has been referred to as an alternative, and we are debating today, under the agenda items under discussion, a request from Mr Anschober, who will certainly go into the project in detail. You would have had the opportunity in the Committee to show quite specifically whether you were only doing so in the Donau-Auen National Park project, where, after twelve years at last, it was possible to protect a particular area, seriously or whether the Minister for the Environment and the relevant coalition members were also concerned with a total commitment to the fact that we really want to go away from the conservative and destructive power plant policy. However, you voted in favour of this request. This was a reflection for the Lambach power plant, so that, before continuing to build, before investing further planning costs, you wait for appropriate environmental impact assessments and integrate the citizens' initiatives there and thus finally carry out a Least Cost Planning under the leadership of the economic or environmental resort. You have rejected this request, and that shows once again my view that you are mainly concerned with photo dates – you are very brave, proud and in front row, Mr Umweltminister – because when it comes to resisting, of course you have to go into a conflict with your party colleague, Mr Pühringer, and perhaps with the entire Upper Austrian ÖVP, you are obviously shy of the conflict. I have seen quite clearly how you moved your face lightly on Sunday, when your party colleague Hubinek drew attention to these two issues, namely Lambach and the Kraftwerksprojekt am Lech. You were not right, because that disturbed the beautiful mood and the photo dates. It also disturbed the fact that a citizens' initiative from Lambbach then gave you a petition to do so. It is now our task, after we have achieved with great support and great commitment from many, many environmentalists and not so much from the high policy that the Danube Auen are protected to ensure that further destruction is finally stopped. I would like to quote something - I have already quoted it in committee - but I think it is so important that I think that every debate on energy must be made clear - that the power plant builders themselves admit that there is no need for these projects. I read from a protocol of TIWAG, the Tyrolean energy supply company. TIWAG says in its own papers – quote –: "While water power as a renewable energy is still being maintained in official programmes, the large EVU, which has previously built hydroelectric power plants, takes out their projects from the internal construction programmes. New hydropower plants are not competitive in the coming years." A few weeks ago, Hans Haider, the Chief of the Association, said in the report that the topic of Lambbach was much less an economic decision than it had been in the direction of a political decision due to the events of the last year. He stressed this statement at last week's Court of Auditors, when he said quite freely from the liver that, of course, because there is a huge surplus of electricity on the part of the Association, but also on the part of individual ETUs in Austria, there could easily be any offer that it would be much cheaper for these energy suppliers to buy the excess electricity, not to invest in completely unnecessary power plants, but also in a much cheaper way. This includes Lambach, which includes the power plant at Lech and, of course, the power plant Thent in Niederösterreich, to which it can be seen that there is no sense of weakness at all in developing a caloric power plant these days. With 3 billion schilling! That's a shield citizen's stroke. In addition, the Director-General, who is responsible for this, says that, unfortunately, a small increase in electricity prices in Lower Austria will have to be made, because it will not be possible to finance this. It's about electricity that nobody needs there. There will be no use of waste heat, a level of efficiency of just over 40 percent will be achieved, but everyone will look too. This is obviously not about beautiful photos, so it is not traded. You are not acting here, Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Economic Affairs, and the politicians of the country are obviously getting their heads in there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where there are conflicts – there are some in the energy sector and in the power plant sector – I do not see any "turbo" at all at the ÖVP. On the contrary: You're walling in and insisting on a lack of control, and it's no different in this area than it was ten years ago. We Greens want to see a uniform coordination of power plants in Austria at last, that the cantonist in the individual federal states ceases to make a permanent policy against each other, instead of putting together – on the one hand, the state EVUs, dominated by the ÖVP, and on the other side of the union, perhaps a bit dominated by the SPÖ – and bringing about a successful Austrian solution. If you do not, this will be – I am firmly convinced – the next major economic area you will unfortunately have to sell out, and this would be a great damage to Austrian energy policy, it would be a major failure, because it would no longer be possible to continue our anti-atomic policy to the extent that it has been so far and, above all, to invest in renewable energy sources. That would be the course of action to be taken in the next few months. These are the new real fields of conflict and tasks ahead of us. Mr Umweltminister! You have now brought the Sunday story well over the stage, I hope that the self-lobe was there enough. Now it is about really working again, it is very concrete to promote renewable energy sources in Austria in particular. For this, there are many needs, many possibilities – we will also negotiate tomorrow –, opportunities for appropriate feed-in tariffs, for concrete energy savings programmes and, of course, for concrete nature conservation programmes. Trust yourself, Minister for the Environment – you have our full support – where You are responsible and wherever you may occur as an instance, to do the same! Say a clear word to Lambach, a clear word to hell and a clear word to the power plant at Lech, and be in the same position as you did on Sunday to the photographers in the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5448	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Bartenstein. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5469	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand, Mrs Langthaler, that for you this Sunday obviously was not a day of joy. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Oh yes!]] From the point of view of a member of the opposition, it is likely to be a little difficult to carry out if the government fractions, if the Minister of the Environment, together with the heads of state of Vienna and Lower Austria, can realize one of the most important conservation projects in Austria, can finally come to fruition with the conclusion of a state agreement – even if the day is as glorious as it was. They prefer to pursue environmental policy by spreading fear and horror, by insecurity, by reducing, by criticizing OECD country reports and similar papers that characterize and confirm that Austria's environmental policy is a good one. Even Mrs Aumayr has said that we have excellent environmental laws. I understand, Mrs Langthaler, that such a day cannot be a special day for you from the point of view of an opposition politician. But please also understand us: It was a day of joy for us! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have an ever-increasing experience in all environmental debates – and this is already going through several months: I am drawn by Mrs Aumayr from the FPÖ of untruth and, unfortunately, before I have the opportunity to reply and reply, she is no longer present. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, to make the following statement: If Mrs Aumayr and the Federal Government blame me for the untruth, namely we would not defend Austria's high environmental standards against the European Union, we would not be able to obtain them within the framework of the review process which runs until the end of 1998, then it should say why it draws these conclusions. That's just not right. We're good on our way. We have the negotiations after we have pressed for a long time. In June of this year. A number of points can already be resolved with satisfaction – as the European Union has followed our standards, improved its standards – and we will continue this process and will be able to achieve a good result before Austria's population by the end of 1998. You should not spread untruths if you have no idea of things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few brief remarks on the topic of Donau-Auen National Park. This has done a good job. Of course, Mrs Langthaler – perhaps have They did not listen or were not in the tent – I also thanked those who had frozen in the Au 12 years ago for Christmas, many of them still misunderstood. A newspaper even quoted me; please read it in the standard, Mrs. Langthaler. It has also been thanked by many others, such as Nonning, Meissner-Blau, Heiligenbrunner and many others, who were men and women of the first hour, who were in the Au at the time of the first nights and weeks. There is no doubt that after this twelve-year process, this project has now reached a good conclusion: There was a state agreement between the Federal Government and the countries of Vienna and Lower Austria, and it is now the National Park. And if today the House gives its approval to the law on the National Park Society, another step has been taken. It's already been mentioned. With this law a slim society has been established, a company with limited liability with five employees and a managing director. That's slim. I thank you, Mrs Langthaler, for saying that the conditions with the Federal Forests are serious. This has been a difficult process, but we have now introduced the protection of contract nature in Austria. This is done by the Donau-Auen National Park, we will continue with the Kalkalpen National Park. When I remember that the annual compensation for a hectare of high-quality forest in the Danube countries could be negotiated at 1,800 s – and even there we have found a grinding scheme over four years – and the market value of such a hectare is well above 100 000 s, I can say: It is clear from this that this compensation cannot even cover the cost of capital – even at these low interest rates – and that it is therefore fair compensation volumes. I repeat that I do not understand the Liberal Forum on this point, because property, ladies and gentlemen, is indivisible; at least the People's Party is of this opinion. Property is indivisible. Even if it is public property and one uses it, one has to compensate it. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] Where are we going, for example, if public servants could travel in the trains of the Federal Railways or in the buses of the Post without paying, because this is also a envelope of public funds from one bag to another. That is it, yes, but it belongs to a proper state and it belongs to the recognition of the property that one pays compensation, whether it is a railway ticket, a letter port or a compensation in the direction of the Austrian Federal Forest, which will be distributed as a stock company in a few weeks. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] What remains to be done now is no less important than what has happened over the past 12 years. It is clear that water networking projects are of great importance for the conservation and revitalisation of outdoors. There are more than ten water networking projects planned. One in the regular fountain Au's already at work. The WWF is to be thanked for this, because it was very active in this respect, but also the economic sector that is funding it. In the years up to the turn of the millennium it will be necessary to involve some private property owners and thus to bring 2,000 hectares of private land into this national park. Now that you're back, Mrs Aumayr: It is true that there is no compensation for private property owners. There are no private property owners in the National Park so far, and therefore there can be no such compensation. I ask you to take this into account. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We also spoke from the government side when, together with Mr Klestil, we proclaimed 1996 as the year of the National Parks. We have spoken, we have now realized the Danube Auen National Park, and it is the course – as I mean – that it is irreversible – for the implementation of the Kalkalpen National Park in 1997. But what remains is of course to make thousands of citizens in the neighbouring communities, especially in the northern shores, in the coming years also advocates of the National Park, not to manipulate them, but to motivate them to say yes to their national park. I am sure that the same process, which has taken place in the Hohe Tauern and also around the Neusiedlersee in recent years, will also be able to run there and that a community of Orth on the Danube will be proud in the foreseeable time to be able to install a town panel on the "National Park Community of Orth on the Danube" and on which the icebird will be pictured, because the citizens of Orth want it and because they will also be proud of their national park Donau-Auen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude with a note that is important and that, in the positive sense of the word, has been provoked by an executive director of an ETU, who at the moment, one week before the opening of the national park, has seen it possible to go out with a report from a study commissioned by an electricity company and which has supposedly provided for the establishment of storage stages and of two power plants east of Vienna as the only means of saving the outdoors. I repeat very clearly here what all the experts say to us: The Au doesn't have any traffic jams. A power plant or even two power plants east of Vienna are not in question. Each power plant project east of Vienna is highly incompatible and incompatible with the Donau-Auen National Park project. I know with the vast majority – probably all – Members of this House of the High House an opinion if we want to keep the two streams that the Danube remains in Austria, namely the Wachau on the one hand and the Danube east of Vienna to Hainburg and Bratislava on the other, free of congestion, whether in the sense of the beauty of the Wachau, whether it be in the sense of the need of the Danube-Auen National Park.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5540	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not surprised, but again and again I am quite surprised at the comments made by Mr Aumayr. Mrs. Colleague! Not all that limps is automatically a comparison. If you weigh some imported apples with raisins here, which you obviously want to pick out from a total formation, from a closed system called world trade, then I must tell you: That's not how it works! To want to close the borders... [[Abg. Aumayr: Don't close the boundaries!]] I would like to pass these on to our export industry. I hope they don't cover themselves with those of their economist Princehorn. However, I would like to say that you do not value exports from our country, which would, of course, be highly discriminated against and hindered. I take note of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Why our exports?]] But I cannot understand at all your criticism of the National Park opening last Sunday. For each of us, I think, it was a star hour of nature and environmental protection in Austria. The path taken by this national park, namely the protection of venous nature, is laborious, but the right one, because it respects to a great extent the rights of ownership – the Minister of State has already pointed out – and, as you can see, the most intensive efforts of the Minister for the Environment have brought good results. That alone confirms the way we have taken, and it is really right, Mr Federal Minister, at this point, to thank you very much for the toughness with which you have conducted these negotiations and brought them to a good conclusion, but also for your economic thinking, which you have shown in the design of the form of society and also in the scale of this society and its decision-making processes. I believe, in total, that this national park and the society that will now lead it – of course, with the involvement of the existing institutions such as the Federal Forests – can not only be seen, but they will also receive great international attention. – Thank you once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has made a brief statement on three other points. First of all, on the request concerning fleet consumption of the vehicle: Mr Barmüller has tabled this request. I think it is a good, important and very welcome initiative from you with a completely right argument. Here a good contribution can be made to achieving the Toronto target, namely reducing transport-related CO2 emissions, in particular by reducing total consumption of newly authorised vehicles. I also believe that this regulation can be an important contribution to the development of technology in terms of car construction or car development, but you are anxious in your application, I believe, of reality as regards competence and the possibilities for regulation in the national field. I believe that the right path is the one that we have taken with our own proposal, which is aimed at wherever it has to be regulated, at the European level. We are not, of course, a particularly important country in terms of car construction. A short while ago, on a second point, to extend the national accounts: I think it is important to improve the truth of costs by internalising external costs. I am very glad that a joint request has been made. I would also like to thank the experts of the Ministry of the Environment who were present when we formulated the proposal, discussed it and added it to suggestions. Mr. Barmüller! However, I do not fully understand the recent criticism of the ÖSTAT, because I felt that the Committee - your agreement has shown - could also reach agreement on this, or could explain to you the experts of the Ministry of the Environment, why the formulation is exactly the way we have chosen it. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: I haven't criticized that anyway!]] – I don't have enough time, I can't discuss with you. Finally, one point that is very important to me: Electricity generation from renewable energy sources. Each of us confesses to the Toronto target. We can achieve this goal by increasing the efficiency of energy use. However, it is also important that we use renewable energy sources in the production of heat directly and, of course, in the production of electricity. Thank God we have a very high percentage of hydropower. I believe - and here I am with Mrs Langthaler - that we all want to make greater use of renewable energy sources in the production of electricity. We will have another discussion tomorrow with the stakeholders of the Biomass Association and also with the IG Windkraft. However, we are already going to put forward a motion for a resolution today. This has nothing to do with the fact that we no longer want to wait for the talks tomorrow. . We cannot wait for it because of Parliament's term of office, because at tomorrow's meeting we want to have allocated the request to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, where this is to be the subject of discussions. However, we have rejected your request because, I believe, he would only bring about a false continuation of an existing situation. We want to see the whole thing primarily as a technology promotion from a fund that is fed from various sides, which primarily promotes investment. This will lead to the efficient and, above all, effective promotion of these renewable energy sources for electricity generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5638	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5659	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must say that you have once again been silent on the subject of Lambbach, although it is also on the agenda and Mrs Langthaler has already mentioned it. That is to say, there have already been comments on this, and I personally would be keenly interested in your point of view. A thoughtful break, ladies and gentlemen, is appropriate, as I mean. Why appropriate? – The current level of construction costs is to be 600 million Schilling – at least Director-General Windtner. I personally think that there will be a higher amount of investment. Nevertheless, this is a sum which, although it is hydropower, is ultimately to be written into the chimney. This power plant, ladies and gentlemen, is unprofitable, it is economically reprehensible or almost reprehensible, and it is unnecessarily unnecessary to be superfluous. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who are always very strong for this power plant! Where is a need assessment that makes the additional production of electricity by hydropower in Lambbach appear to be useful? – I am not aware of such a need assessment and such a study. [[Abg. Murauer: The Schweitzer has already given the answer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck, in an interlocutory call, which, as I mean, was not logged, since he was rather quiet and withholding, meant: Hydropower out, nuclear power no! – If Mr President-in-Office Windtner announces on a television show that the power plant Lambach has to be built, because the nuclear current has to be reduced and because – second reason – the dependence on the link has to be reduced, the need to be reduced in relation to the link, I have to resist that this is a polemic claim if one negotiates in the same breath with the Bavaria plants on the sale of shares of the OKA. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think I need to explain that the Bayern plants are a nuclear power producer par excellence. So for me, that's not quite conclusive. Ladies and gentlemen! The union, as we know, would be glad, he would not have to build a sense of joy. But here the point has already passed, there can no longer be a stop to a satisfactory solution, as would certainly be the case in connection with the Lambach power plant. What do you want with that? – Continue to increase the excess flow? – A surplus current, for which sales as a low-cost flow to abroad can we ultimately achieve a gross sum as income? That is, every cubic metre of water that flows down the tears, every kilowatt hour that is generated with it is supported with money from the citizen to sell this produced electricity to abroad. [[Abg. Aumayr: It's a gift!]] – It’s a gift! The conflict of interest of Mr Pühringer, on the one hand, as the owner of the OKA and on the other hand as the head of state, who has to represent the interests of the citizens, necessarily the forced customers of the Upper Austrian power stations, can be illustrated by the fact that he says "we are from the OKA", and it obviously does not matter to him that the citizens and, of course, the industry are experiencing an additional burden. Give me a reason, ladies and gentlemen, why, for example, the OKA should not accept the offer made by the association to supply a electricity at prices below the cost of production of electricity from the Lambbach power plant – the same is true of the planned EVN power plant, too! Please explain to me why the amount of investment planned for the Lambbach power plant is not being used to make sense of other measures and, so to speak, to create an investment-free area, which is very likely to create jobs and jobs. There are 600 million schilling, probably more that are actually blown out to the chimney. Instead of a senseless power plant Lambach, we should and should also be dealing with the Upper Austrian Government and the OKA with those real challenges that energy policy calls for: a reorganisation of the e-business, taking into account the most genuine Austrian interests and a regulation of the supply of electricity from renewable energy sources, so that the use of electricity from renewable energy sources actually comes to bear.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5724	The next item is the report by Mr Rada. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5745	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to admit that for many Austrians, and above all for you, Mr Federal Minister, the last Sunday was a day of joy, that good work had been done for you, that you have fulfilled your promise "1996 – the Year of National Parks". But it was not a day of joy for a good part of the affected population, especially north of the Danube. I have already explained at this point more than a year ago that the inhabitants of these northern communities, as measured by the Austrian population, are a very small percentage, but they are largely affected by the National Park and voted against in 1993 in votes between 73 percent and 86%. The time between, until last Sunday, was not used to reduce this scepticism. On the contrary! When people there wanted to present the new National Park Regulation in events, it became apparent that these people were radicalized and only react with mere cynicism in their despair. This is no wonder either, for a number of questions have remained unresolved, such as the uncertainty about agricultural use. Many farmers, whose existence depends on the fields now in the National Park, note that their fields are in the middle of the strictly protected natural zone. You don't know if they'll get a lease back when the old one runs out. The water network you have addressed may well be planned. However, there is not yet a reasonable approach to what is being done against the Danube intrusion. What benefits do we benefit from networking if the Danube continues to deepen by two to three centimeters each year? This water in the Au will surely be looking for the lowest point again, and that is the Danube. The transport development of this northern area is also not guaranteed. There are no railways there, there are only access roads that are used by passenger cars and buses and which already lead to traffic jams every day and on weekends. So much has not yet happened. However, one should not give up the hope that perhaps the new National Park society can convince the population. It will be essential to see to what extent these advisory councils, in which the population is allowed to speak, will really be heard or will perform a function similar to that of the creation society. Then I am not surprised that some mayors have to take a vote that he actually did not expect. That is why I am surprised to hear your statement, Mr Schrefel, when you think that your group will be happy, because the mayors of this region, who belong to your group, are on 13 November. On the other hand, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent support for this report. It will be interesting how he will vote today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5788	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5809	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fullness of the agenda items that we are discussing in summary allows for a partial selection. I would like to focus once again on energy aspects, in particular on the topic of Lambbach, but this in the context of consideration of feed-in tariffs, because I believe that, under the pretext of an economic argumentation with fairly brachial force, a project is being carried out despite resistance, while at the same time calling upon the rule of law, which partly has its accuracy. But it has come to the fore that this project is a project which would not take place at all in the case of a company that is run according to economic criteria. And that's actually disturbing, because in the end it's translated into a simple language: This is a project where the OKA will pay for it. Please keep in mind: Of course, the OKA will not pay for it, but the electricity customers of the OKA will pay for it, and the households that can hardly escape their electricity demand will pay for it. So we'll all be paid on it, and the OKA can boast of a project. And I not only find that to be a pity, but I also find it unresponsible. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The However, there is also a twofold environmental aspect. One is that the project, as I believe it to be, is lacking environmental care, what it is doing, and the second is that we need the performance of the Austrian electricity industry in the field of feed-in tariffs for alternative energy supplies. So if you are aware of how uneconomically this Lambbach is and what we need to build on cross-subsidisation in order to ultimately refinance Lambbach, then you will get a volume out that would make it possible to take a completely different position when it comes to the issue of feed-in tariffs. Instead of using the performance of the overall system to ensure that photovoltaics, biomass and wind energy can be started with fair possibilities and can be delivered at fair conditions – of course the overall system costs something; anyone who does not see this makes a mistake – instead of doing so and thus at the same time promoting innovative development potential and also creating jobs – I remember the current hour, there was a topic – because this would be very decentralised, seeing eyes will force an uneconomic project such as Lambbach, so to speak, using the rule of law at the same time, I call it cautious. By "limitable exploitation", I mean a tendency to unfair treatment of the arrants and parties, by using the rule of law again to force them to the knees, namely, civil law procedures and the abuse of property, which may be difficult to compare, but the cutting is so to speak, and that is the idea. But all of this is happening against the background of a high-grade economy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Murauer! At the meeting of the Committee of the Regions, we had the opportunity to question the Board of Directors of the Association Society, which is certainly free of suspicion to pursue the policy of the Liberal Forum or the Greens, as he sees the economics of the power plant Lambach. In very polite, gentlemanly words, the Board of Directors of the Association Society stated that it would not want to comment on this because the joint venture was at all times able to supply the electricity produced at much more expensive prices in Lambbach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] However, since Mr. Landeshauptmann Pühringer understands his access to share law in a specific case in such a way that he can give instructions to a non-orderly board of directors, and the Board of Directors also makes this happen – so to speak, to the greater honor of his contract extension – we have Lambach. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Murauer! Even if you're still intervening so often: Economically unreasonable is something when it manifests itself in the figures as in the case of Lambbach. Against the background of electricity market liberalisation in Europe, it is totally irresponsible, and I do not understand how a party such as the Austrian People's Party, which claims to have something to say on economic issues, can, in this respect, be so uncritical and loyal as to succeed behind its head of state, Mr Pühringer. I don't understand! But we must say that again and again, because the people of Upper Austria, who hear this too, should know that they have a head of state who has careless dealings with the money of the people of Upper Austria! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: And for the damage, the population must also come up!]] I say again: If something is possible under the rule of law, that does not mean that it is economically reasonable. I would also like to expressly say this again: If it is possible to get a project approved, this does not give evidence that it is economically reasonable. Those who have such access to the assessment of economic efficiency, however, do not wonder if economic policy looks in part such a way that it sometimes gives a sad picture. Only because something is allowed does it not have to be expected yet! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In addition, there are also examples of double taxation in this system, for example in the field of electricity taxes, where state-of-the-art exemptions were created when other energy sources were streamed. That's what they said: It's not supposed to be paid twice. If people use gas, then it is exempt from the corresponding charge because the electricity is taxed anyway. But this only applies as long as you only generate electricity. If you have the perfide idea of increasing the efficiency of your system by decoupling the waste heat and using it in a district heating system, then this primary energy used there must be taxed at once. In other words: For example, if you use the waste heat to heat up the Danube, because you have to cool the waste heat away, then you will be rewarded taxly. On the other hand, if you use the waste heat to heat up apartments, you will be taxed. This is all right in the rule of law, because that is what the National Council has decided by a corresponding majority of the government parties, but it is not economically reasonable and it is not ecologically at all! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The only way to remedy such an abuse would be to change the law, but I fear that the House will not be able to stand up for it in the majority. Therefore, another aspect I would like to raise here is the question: Why do the national leaders care to maintain the competence to regulate feed-in tariffs? Why is that still delegating down? – We have tried to address this question. We believe that this is a very classic case, which must be considered from a perspective, from the point of view of the Federal Minister responsible for it. Otherwise, I would like to make another resort to Lambbach – a warm invitation to the head of the state of Upper Austria to help with the feed-in tariffs for alternative energies – or to help "his" OKA – so that he can finance Lambbach. – That becomes so small at once, so tight is the circle that regulates itself at once! [[the speaker makes a corresponding gesture]] [[Abg. Head: The OKA is certainly exemplary!]] I really think that is extremely unfortunate. I mean, in this respect, we are already much further at the level of the energy speakers in some respects than in the government groups, that we should come to the principle here of at least agreeing on the facts so that we can then discuss the possible developments. However, as long as it is still a matter of defending Lambbach economically, we have, of course, a long way to a consensus on the facts. If even the assessment of the starting position does not agree, then the chance of finding a consensual solution is very, very small. We should really try to agree at least on the framework conditions, at least on the environmental effects. Then one can still say: I'm buying these environmental effects! or the other: I'm not buying them. – This is then a meaningful dispute. But simply disapprove of environmental effects, although one is in fact only willing to buy them, that is dishonest policy, which also causes people to be confounded. I therefore ask: Rethink! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5917	President. — I call Mr Stampler. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5938	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On last Sunday, the signing of the National Park Treaty not only ended an infinite story, no, it also began a new era of ecology, an era in which a national park is more important than the construction of a new hydroelectric power station. It is important for us and our children, I believe, to maintain those pieces of unspoiled nature that are still present in Austria and thus to become a model function in Europe again. Austria is slowly developing into an eco-paradise, which reaches national parks. ==References====External links== Birthday of the Hohe Tauern National Park. With its nearly 1,800 square kilometres, this is the largest national park in Central Europe. It comprises a region of 26 municipalities, in which around 60 000 people live mainly from tourism, and is located in one of the most beautiful cultural landscapes of the Alps. With its approximately 10,000 different animal species, it is probably unique. Such a paradise can and will also be the Donau-Auen National Park. To the story: It was often spoken of before, but only with the occupation of the Hainburger Au, until then, only a piece of nature valued by the local population became the focus of the interest of all Austrians. Now the Au became a political community. With the action of the WWF to "buy nature", with the use of politicians, the mission to the company Marchfeldkanal to plan the National Park, and finally, with the signing of the 15a contract on last Sunday, things took their course and finally reached their preliminary climax. It was a hard, rocky road, and there will be much more persuasion in the communities where the opponents of the National Park still dominate. It is necessary to take their fears, which are partly understandable, and to explain to them that it is essential to preserve such a valuable natural landscape. It is not animals and plants that want to destroy our habitat, but rather vice versa. The hunting will continue to be possible to a limited extent. It is even necessary because the wildlife must continue to be regulated. Fisheries is also not completely prohibited, and parts of the Au continue to be available for wood processing and agricultural use. However, one thing must be clear: If the National Park is to be extended further, no one should be forced to issue his country. We from the Austrian People's Party stand for the protection of nature, but also for the protection of property. Rather, we must try to bring about a change of consciousness among the property owners. Mr Bartenstein said it literally at the opening on Sunday: In particular, it is about reaching out to those who are not yet talking about the National Park. The city of Vienna is the only city in the world, within which borders is now part of a national park, and the only almost unspoiled landscape in Europe. That's worth protecting! Stage 1 will cover an area of 9,300 hectares of 5,000 different species of animals, some of which only exist here, and more than 600 different species of plants will be admired. But also the population does not remain closed to the National Park. Of specially trained leaders, young people, especially from urban areas, are to be brought closer to the beauty of nature on specially arranged teaching paths. For tourism, but also for agriculture in this region, there are completely new possibilities. Perhaps it will be possible to extend the national park to the planned 11 500 hectares in the future. In any case, it is, as I believe, a commitment of policy to preserve, preserve and make accessible to this earth, which we have only borrowed from our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5992	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6014	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can only give my previous speaker right on all points. It was almost a green speech! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] I may have to point out, perhaps, that one sentence, which may wait for the change of consciousness in a national park grounds for land owners, rather than necessarily expropriating land, should be written to your group colleagues in the manual, especially when it comes to road constructions. Imagine, for example, the construction of the Pyhrn motorway, Mr Colleague, that the Minister of Economic Affairs is waiting until the property owners realize that they should give the reason because the transport project is apparently necessary. There are two measures in the ÖVP, and that is unfair. Where environmental issues are concerned, the right to private property is respected. On the other hand, however, there are projects – see, for example, Upper Austrian Kremstal – where farmers are brutally driven over where expropriations to the severe financial damage of the affected are carried out. In the case of internal will-building, one should consider whether this is really clean. [[Abg. Koppler: There have recently been demonstrations of very different victims – where was the Rudi Anschober?]] I'm not always with the demonstrators. You can't demonstrate against everything. Mr Koppler, you should take a little back there. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] More interesting in this debate, I believe, is the political bracket of Hainburg – the most efficient occupation, the most likely serious environmental debate in the last decades in Austria – up to Lambach, the longest occupation so far – full three months – and the most recent environmental debate in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I found it interesting that the Minister for the Environment meant: After twelve years, a good conclusion has been reached in Hainburg. . I am glad that the Greens prevail, I am also glad that they will be celebrated together and that some of them will also be rethinked, by people who, Mr Minister, you know, were not on the side of the Greens at the time twelve years ago, but I can guarantee you one thing: In Lambach it will not take twelve years for the good thing to prevail, in Lambach this will go much, much faster! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Minister also meant thanking those who were frozen 12 years ago. – I do, too, but I also thank those who frozen in the Lambacher Au ten months ago. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There is no Au!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: (in the direction of the Abg. May. Kukacka) Now there is no more!]] I am sure to be with them again next time, and many of our group will also be with them, so that it does not last twelve years in Lambbach, as in Hainburg, until a good conclusion can actually be achieved. Mr Bartenstein! With much of what you say about Hainburg, there is absolute consensus on our site. A project that is no longer controversial can be seen here in a lot of positive and very positive arguments. But you are very consistent in a different context, namely to keep the question of Lambach silent. Where is your personal position, Mr. Minister? Extracts, flow routes are not only available in Hainburg! Where is your personal positioning regarding the 9 percent not yet installed, close-to-natural flow routes in Upper Austria? 91 percent of the hydropower potential in Upper Austria has already been exhausted. Should it not be natural for a conservationist, for an environmental minister, to engage in the preservation of the 9 per cent of the leftovers, which are still natural, for our children, for next generations? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's all regulated! – Obviously he's never been there before, otherwise he wouldn't tell such a nonsense!]] Minister! I know there are party constraints, I know, there is pressure, I know, that is not easy for you, but I expect a minister of the environment to think that the environmental issue is more important to him than the discipline of the party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to explain, but not only in 12 years in the Festzelt zu Lambach and not in three years in the Festzelt zu Lambach, when we will celebrate and open the protected area of Lambach, but here and today! Now you have to be at our side, not only when it is no longer controversial! A very important point in the Lambach question, which is at the heart of the request, which is present today in this bundle of applications at the beginning of the environmental debate, is the requested stop of reflection on the construction of the Lambach power plant. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I could not imagine a more up-to-date time for the debate on this request. I have requested a rethinking period – I think it will probably be nothing negative in Austria – in order to have an environmental impact assessment and an economic analysis carried out during this period of reflection. In Lambach, we are faced with the situation that, if the OKA actually keeps its word and if Landes Captain Pühringer keeps his word, we will at least wait for the final decision of the Supreme Courts with a further incidental start of construction. You know that complaints have already been announced, and you should not make the mistake of preferring a construction that would now be legally feasible and possible, but where then the administrative court sends the stop signal again and interrupts the construction because it gives the environmentalists the right. Head of State Pühringer and ODA Director-General Windtners have both explained that they will wait until the OGH judgment. This will take at least until May, June, July of next year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is the core of the application. This is already a rethinking break, and in this reflection one should use the time and try to check both the environmental impact and the cost-effectiveness. Whoever has a good conscience on these two questions and who is convinced that this project is environmentally sound and also economically, he would have liked to agree immediately to this request with enthusiasm, because then he would have a wonderful argument for the construction of this project! But you know that this project is certainly not environmentally sound and that it is not economic, especially under the changed framework conditions of the liberalised electricity market in the European Union. You know what other EVU companies have already established. Monika Langthaler has already quoted the TIWAG Protocol on the efficiency and lack of economic efficiency of future hydropower projects. You know this, and you know that at the same time Austria is swimming in an incredible electricity surplus and this electricity surplus is a serious economic problem because the joint venture is... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka! Untruth and stupidity do not become smarter and more true when it is constantly repeated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Kukacka! Look Once you've got the numbers on it! I would invite you, drive me every second week – as I do – to Temelin and fight there once! But I never see you there! You're not there! They are present when it comes to polemizing with nuclear power imports. Then you're here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But when it comes to the concrete commitment to Temelin, I've never seen a kukacka on the spot. I will invite you personally next time, perhaps we will be able to do persuasive work in the area of the steel helmet group of the Austrian People's Party. We have a surplus situation on the Austrian electricity market. That is completely undisputed. Last year we had an export surplus of about 1,400 gigawatt hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Murauer! An export surplus! That means more exports than imports. Please, a minimum of technical terms would have to be realistically expected in this House! We had an export surplus of 1,400 gigawatt hours, which is about 35 times the performance of Lambach. Since the beginning of this year, we also have the so-called Nagymaros contract with additional 1,200 gigawatt hours of imports fixed by the year 2015. This has not enforced a green government. I didn't hear your protests. There we were in 1985/86 those who have been active against it. And thirdly, we have the power plant Freudnau – also of the same dimension – which will then triple this surplus in total. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! And that is exactly what Mr Haider, President-in-Office of the Council, has presented in the Court of Auditors' Committee on Questions, among other things, to Mr Wabl. As you have become very calm, you have hardly argued any more than that of the combined general Haider, in order to reduce these surplus capacities in Austria, it would be more useful not to build new power plants in national companies, which in total have further increased this surplus situation and offered you instead to buy cheap electricity from the compound. I say: For me, it would also be an appropriate variant for national companies to participate directly in combined hydroelectric power plants. You may know, Upper Austria – not the OKA, but Upper Austria – produces a third more hydropower current than it needs in total electricity. Electricity production in the Federal Republic of Austria is 30 percent higher than the total electricity consumption of Upper Austria. We should benefit from this situation, ladies and gentlemen, and in this situation our already announced request is that, as we think, the Minister of Economic Affairs should take his coordination role into account in these matters and, as the owner of the group, ensure that the offer formulated for the first time by Haider in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee is also known to the public that this is concreteised and that concrete negotiations between the group and the national companies are held so that we can reach a reasonable and therefore ecologically reasonable solution and that the surplus capacity is no longer increased by building new power plants of the national companies and then almost giving these excess volumes to dumping prices at enormous losses abroad. That's what it's all about. This request is in the room. We are making this request today, but we are not going to let him vote today. After talks with a number of politicians from different political groups, we were announced by several parties that it would be reasonable to imagine that this would be supported, but it would not be possible to agree in the near future – a green request for it. That is to say, I hear from the colleagues of the other political groups that the proposal is being allocated very quickly, that is to say to the next Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. It will be held in about two weeks – a concrete date is not yet fixed, but there is a need for action due to the other needs of action – and in this committee, it could be possible to launch negotiations between the Group of Associations and the Landesgesellschafts – in the specific case of the OKA – across party borders, thus giving the launch of the overdue coordination of energy policy in Austria. This is both economic and ecologically overdue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6149	Mr Dipl.-Ing. has spoken. I'm sorry. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6164	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On today's agenda, the establishment of the operating company is for a national park to be treated. I would like to join my colleague Rada's speech. I place very many hopes in this operating company that we need this operating company. As Mr Schrefel pointed out, everything was in order, through the company Marchfeldkanal, which made the preparations, that there were no factual defects, I do not see it. The Minister mentioned the National Park around the Neusiedlersee. There we have had an example of how to reconcile and negotiate a national park with the population. The company Marchfeld Canal with Mr Christian is unfortunately a negative example in our region, and there are many questions left open. A question that we have to vote on today concerns, for example, those who are entitled to use it. Mr Christian has forgotten that the half area of the National Park is a field of research on hydrocarbons, i.e. mining. This means that the Republic of Austria has concluded contracts which undertake to prove here whether or not federal minerals are present. It is not clear how this Treaty can be complied with in the future. Mr Christian has also avoided the fact that there are three areas in the National Park. Here too, there are contracts with the Republic of Austria, according to which the state-owned hydrocarbons are being promoted and the Republic cashes a interest rate for this purpose. Mr Christian has also avoided the fact that there are lines for crude oil in the National Park, with which the refinery and the Lobau Tank Camp are fed. It has been avoided that there are gas pipelines for the supply of Vienna, for the supply of the southern Lower Austria. Last but not least, Mr Christian has escaped the fact that there are transit lines in the National Park that transport 18 billion cubic meters of natural gas – this is about four times the consumption of the Republic of Austria – to Milan. In contracts with the Italians, we are talking about increasing this transit by an additional 8 billion cubic metres. It was only yesterday that the so-called HAG line, the Hungaria-Austria gas pipeline to Györ, was officially opened by the Federal Chancellor. This gas pipeline also passes through the National Park. I would like to add one more point to Mr Rada's statement: Why is there a difference between the fears of the communities on the right bank of the Danube, south, and on the left bank of the Danube, north? – The population on the left bank of the Danube and I too have concerns – I have allowed myself to discuss this in committee – that there could be serious disadvantages if this operating company does not intervene in a balanced manner. Ladies and gentlemen! The wine district has not been particularly spoiled with wealth and good economic conditions over the past 50 years. We also need bridges in the National Park to open southern spaces. These bridges should be connected and not separated. We need the opportunity to use the hydropower – not as a power plant, but as a road for our loads – on the left bank of the Danube. We need visions in our region, such as the Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel, which could bring an additional boost in addition to tourism in our area. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I have confidence in today's decision. I have confidence in this company that a meaningful relationship, a meaningful definition of external zones and core zones in the region as a whole will benefit the entire population. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6219	Mr Wenitsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, honourable Member. You also have a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6240	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of the National Park is one that divides citizens, at least in the district of Gänserndorf, into two camps. If Mr Kummerer has just mentioned what economic skills we need to maintain in this area for the National Park, and he puts his trust in a company that he does not yet know, then I am very surprised, Mr Kummerer, for I have already imagined that before starting a company, it is once determined what it has to do. He spoke of the Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel, of the need to maintain the waterway, of bridges, of gas pipelines to Italy and so on, because in the district of Gänserndorf, in particular, the economy with jobs or the financial office is not blessed with tax revenue. If I compare the tax revenue collected at the Geenserndorf Office in 1994 with the 1995 tax revenue, then I have to note a huge increase. It is then necessary to consider what responsibility this society will bear in the future and what skills it will have. Mr. Kummerer! That is why I have had a motion for a resolution tabled today, Mr President. I'll get closer to it then, why. [[Quoted print version removed]] Why, ladies and gentlemen? – The country of Lower Austria has apparently failed in its negotiations – here I very consciously put Mr Umweltlandesrat Blochberger in the foreground – to reach agreement with the residents or property owners. Now we are going here in Parliament, deciding in fact to set up a society, to put in place the tax money of Austrian citizens and actually do not know what this society will look like, what tasks this society will have, what competences it will have, and whether any agreement will be reached with the affected property owners, the communities and the locals there. If, today, I take this letter from the ÖGNU that the future National Park will at best be a flickering trick, Mr Minister, then I must agree, for as long as you do not reach an agreement with the property owners, this National Park is a flickering carpet. But this cannot be in your interest if you want to protect nature in this area. We need a coherent nature reserve, it does not have to be a national park according to international guidelines. I think that's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein keeps documents up to date.]] I know, but there are still enough communities in the Danube with which this has not yet been clarified, Minister. I don't know how You have these documents, but I know from local representatives of neighbouring national parks that no agreement has yet been reached with them. I just want to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Maybe that's how the result should look!]] So it may look in the final effect, but at the moment can It only takes into account the Federal Forests, for no agreement has yet been reached on the others. On those reasons why this national park cannot be recognized internationally, my colleague Martin Graf will go further from the Vienna part of the future National Park. I can see one thing very clearly: As long as no agreement is reached with the citizens, the subject of the National Park here in Parliament is not a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6320	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wenitsch is legally supported and is included in the negotiations. The next item is Mr Auer's speech. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6344	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a comment on a number of speakers who have commented on the various proposals we are dealing with today. A statement really impressed me, namely that of Mr Rada. My respect for what you have said here, because it is also very slow for me: Everyone is for the creation of a national park, everyone is for the creation of nature reserves, of protected areas and the like, but only where he is not at home, so that he is in the extension of the municipality so that he is not disturbed in the problem of management in his environment as a private homeowner or as a company. Ladies and gentlemen! That's really a little simple. If we are pleased with the creation of such facilities, we should also know: There are great difficulties where such protection and conservation areas are required. I know what I am talking about, because in my community there is a nature reserve, the Fischlhamer Au, which was ordered without compensation, which brings difficulties for the land owners and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something on the subject of Lambbach now, because on 28 May, I would like to say something about it. There was a urgent request from the Greens on February this year. In the end, this was a ghastly attempt to tell a sad story of "50 days of occupation" – this was formulated by Anschober – here, of "peaceful occupations" was spoken of, "from the excavator struggle in the mourning" was something to hear of a "wild destruction of the field". Severe accusations were raised because innocent citizens were injured and threatened. The escalation was not to be prevented, it was said. However, in the court proceedings, Mr Anschober, it turned out that the accused excavator was innocent, because video was used to document that the demonstrator wanted to consciously and deliberately hurt himself. But then after the acquittal of the court, after the court's clear finding, after the judgment – even after apparently false testimony, because the process was documented by video – the ach so well-known speaker of "Global 2000" – explained suddenly – this is also to be read – that was almost a lonely act of a single one. Before that, you could read something completely different about it. – That’s not the way it is! Among these professional demonstrators, Mr Anschober, you too have been able to find your colleague Wabl and your wife, Mrs Petrovic. [[Abg. Wabl: Uiii!]] Afterwards, "Global 2000" ran child care, ladies and gentlemen. Now comes a new facet regarding the construction of this power plant Lambach: The connection would have cheap electricity, and the OKA should think economically. Economics is suddenly in demand. Until yesterday, however, the ODA had neither a written nor an oral offer. [[Abg. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the ……]] Do you know what we have instead, ladies and gentlemen? – The association has entered into commitments to buy electricity from Nagymaros by 70 sizes per kilowatt, i.e. index-secured! This does not promote Austrian jobs, but one would like to sell this electricity, although the contract in question is a waterloo, as a financial disaster, so that the upper Austrians, the OKA and other EVUs can be compensated for their own inability in the contract agreement. The OKA builds a power plant in Lambach, where the electricity is estimated to be at 77 large in current electricity prices, so in the event of a loss of interest charges, it will be cheaper than the electricity the compound buys in Hungary. And then you want to tell us something about a reasonable energy policy here! – Thank you for that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. On top of that: (holding your hands on the left and on the right) you have put up a prank, Mr. Colleague.]] Yes, this narrow field of vision, Mr. Anschober, is indeed a show in Lambach. Yours has become even smaller, because earlier you have legitimately always talked about follow-up costs resulting from nuclear power plants – in this respect you have quite merited, which has been held undisputed – but today it is to you wurst how the import current is generated. Obviously, you do not care whether this happens in caloric garbage slugs or in nuclear power plants, because, on the world market, there is cheap electricity in the European electricity market – as it is produced – Lambach is indifferent. That's your philosophy! That is what we do not want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And one of them surprised me, too: They have a great deal of commitment here, but in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection I could see that, apart from the rapporteur, Mrs Langthaler, no one from the Greens has taken part in the debate. Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Unfortunately, we only have one seat in committee!]] I know you only have one, but you could have participated in the debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: How should we do this?]] Tranquil Your commitment! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: If you support us, we get two!]] And since you always accuse Pühringer, our head of state in Upper Austria, of knowing that he doesn't agree with the population living there, you're told at the end: In the EU vote on 13 March. October reached the ÖVP in Lambach – you hear and marvel, ladies and gentlemen! – an increase of 5.5 percent, thus far above the national and national average. The greens who stand up for it, a plus of – how much? – a command, and in Stadl Paura – I am sorry – Mr. Gerhard Ernst had to take a minus of just under 16 percent. [[Abg. Aumayr: What about the liberals, colleague Auer?]] Then he relinquished his function because he explained that he no longer held the head for others. I say: Respect for this attitude! With your environmental objective in Lambach, you are completely adjacent, and you will, as in Lambbach your opinions have swung down the tears, in the future also swim down the tears!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6494	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6515	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer! You would only need to replace one word with your excellent speech: Instead of Lambach, you could have called another power plant – perhaps the Hainburg power plant – then these accusations regarding professional demonstrators and other things would have liked. I can remember all the arguments of that time. I can remember the accusations that Sinowatz said, what Hesoun, the then Minister of Social Affairs, said. [[Abg. Auer: To Lambach?]] No, to Hainburg! – These were the same terms as you used them today. Rudi Anschober has already sent you an invitation so that after ten years you can be in a tent of celebrations when talking about the Lambach sins. [[Abg. Auer: We leave this to someone else!]] There you can then give modest and humble talks. Ladies and gentlemen! I find the occasion which the Federal Minister has welcomed here... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser towards ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The FPÖ is the strongest party in Stadl Paura!]] I know you still have the majority of coalitions here in this house – despite Hainburg, despite Zwentendorf, despite the many disasteres you have in many areas. It's all clear to me. I know it might take some time. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: He spoke about the FPÖ!]] Yeah, that's hard to distinguish sometimes. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer! You should really look at what has been discussed in the Court of Auditors. I believe that Mr. Haider is not suspicious of being co-runners of the Greens, the Liberals or the Liberals, yet Mr. Haider of the union there has clearly and clearly said that these two power plants, namely, the Shit and Lambbach, are nationally absurd – he has expressed it a bit forerunner – and he has also made it clear there... [[Call:That's it.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: He didn't say that!]] Yes, he has said it a little prelude so that you are not offended, Mr Wurmitzer; I know. [[Abg. Wormitzer: They say the untruth!]] Mr Haider has clearly said that electricity prices can easily be undermined and that the management authorities, both of the OKA and of the EVN, are in agreement. Mr Wurmitzer, you cannot discuss this out of here today. You have been silenced in the committee because you knew exactly what a brilliant statement that was made by Collaborative General Haider. [[Abg. Wormitzer: I was concerned about the Presidency!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think this Sunday is a wonderful Sunday! It should all be there, regardless of what they once thought, ten years ago, twelve years or whenever, or at Zwentendorf or at any other power plant. Everyone can change, everyone can have said something wrong – even the Greens. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at reality today! Consider what great sins continue to be committed! Lambach has already been sufficiently discussed. It is quite clear on the table, Mr Wurmitzer, that the combined society could deliver more cheaply. Mr Colleague Auer is of course quite right with the electricity from Nagymaros, but if he had been in the Court of Auditors, then he would have made it clear that these decisions had been taken unanimously at the time, because this House was also a large majority in favour of building Nagymaros, this absurd Hungarian power plant, which was still to be built together with the Communist government at that time, which in turn prevented the environmentalists. The fact that this results in contracts that prove to be uneconomic today has made it clear to the Association General. A arbitration court has now been set up so that these stupidities – I say now so salopp – are terminated and corrected. But now to argue with Lambach – this is a strong piece, Mr Auer! That's all kinds of things! No man from the ÖVP has responded to the stupidity that happens in Lower Austria with the EVN, with the 400 MW power plant that is planned there by 2.3 billion schilling and where the union in turn says he could deliver cheaper. Don't talk about it! Where is the Federal Minister, from your side, to hear a clear view of such a senseless project? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Do you want nuclear power?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We don't want a nuclear current!]] We have also discussed a sin in the Court of Auditors, which has been evident for years and decades, that is Voitsberg. I am glad about this national park, but I am not glad that there are still gross environmental sins in other parts of our federal territory, namely insofar as we have heard that 3 million tonnes of lignite are already in stock in Voitsberg. This means interest losses, which means that the lignite decays to flower soil, which means a quarter of a billion losses a year. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Flower earth has a higher value added than lignite!]] There we have renovated one of the most modern caloric power plants with 3 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, but we have not been able to negotiate with the Slovenians and the Croatians whether it would be more reasonable to use this power plant instead of continuing nuclear energy in Slovenia and Croatia. There was no approach. – Where is your position on this, Mr. Federal Minister? I am – once again – glad that you have kept the contract high at the National Park. You should be pleased to see how everyone in this House should be happy about it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: He put it through!]] He didn't enforce it, he did it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: But of course!]] Mr Maitz, the political processes are a little more complicated. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I made my contribution to this!]] He has made his contribution to this, not at all a question, but the political processes are somewhat more complex. Ladies and gentlemen! However, positions would have to be taken for this purpose. Do you know what this quarter of a billion is going to mean every year in losses? This is the total wage sum of the buddies who work there in lignite mining. This means not only that people are allowed to work in an area that has long been attributed to the Stone Age, concrete time in our century, but that means that these losses on the other hand also block alternative energy and alternative technology. We're talking about a fund with 120 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this fund is a good idea, but proportionality in this area is incredible! Look You can do this: a quarter of a billion of a year, losses – and, on the other hand, 120 million schilling for a fund! We're blocking our alternative technologies, and that's also the problem with Lambbach, that's the problem with shit. The hydropower is not evil in itself. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Oh, that's it! But I've heard something else!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only every concrete project is bad!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the problem! This is an economic error. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The hydropower itself is nothing bad! That was defamatory now!]] Let's get nature conservation aside. We tell you that this piece of flow is not the most beautiful in the world, we also give you that you are wrong in the legal system, but at least you expect the red pencil, which looks like economically. But that's not your business, because you'll re-order electricity prices for the households and stick to them, Mr. Kukacka. That's the problem! They represent a spiritual desert in the energy sector – that is devastating! The burden of coming generations is still many, many decades. That's the problem you represent here and you can't solve it. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Umweltminister! You will still have the opportunity to express your views on this issue several times today. To Lambach you haven't said anything yet, you haven't said anything about it yet, to Voitsberg you haven't said anything yet. Mr Umweltminister, you will still have some opportunities in the emergency today. However, I have a request for a completely different subject, which has already been addressed briefly by Kolegen Barmüller, in connection with the Austrian Federal Forests. Today, as far as I am aware, a proposal has been made in the Council of Ministers on the establishment of a public limited company for the continuation of the ÖBF company. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are completely informed!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I've been looking at it. But the urgent one is not addressed to me!]] – I already know that they are not on It is addressed, but I think that this has to do with your environment; perhaps not directly in your competence, but perhaps from the idea, from the political environment, Mr Bartenstein. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: I am not responsible for everything!]] That is also something that we have always criticized: that you have a beautiful ministry, but few competences. I understand your dilemma. I never want to sit in your seat. Maybe that's what Mrs Langthaler does once. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The danger is low!]] The danger is not yet to thank God, but perhaps Mrs. Langthaler will sit there once. However, I would not endure two days with these competences on this seat, because only all the beatings of the environmental movement are to be negotiated, at the same time to have zero competence to have little budget, to be allowed virtually always to nod in the Council of Ministers – that is a difficult lot! But you will do it already, you are still young and suffering, Mr Federal Minister. It is also not true that if you are no longer ministers, you are not facing nothing. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Martin! The fox also said that the grapes are too sour because they were too high!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased with this decision that there is a beautiful national park, but I believe that all of Austria must become a wonderful national park where people can live, manage and be happy. [[Call the ÖVP: Like the Indians!]] Not like the Indians, not like the "black" Indians in the ÖVP, no, sustainable, Mr. Schwarzenberger, sustainable! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Since when are you a racist?]] Now it's coming! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was clearly a racist statement!]] Mr Schwarzenberger, on this level, I do not want to stay in this spiritual desert, because I want to go quickly to areas where it is a little moister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6894	Mr Wurmitzer has referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. Speech time: 2 minutes. Start the correction with the subject to which you want to compare your version.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6919	Mr President. High house! From this point of view, the claim was just put into space, the Executive Director of the Austrian Association Society, Dr. Haider, had asserted that the two power plant projects Lambach and Tätz were a national economic nonsense. This representation is completely incorrect. Such a finding has never been made, nor has there been any statement by the Executive Director of Dr. Haider that would allow such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6954	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6976	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Although I have only 5 minutes of time and would like to speak to the national accounts, a preliminary remark on the problem of the national park and the power stations. I am of course also pleased that this Hainburg National Park is now at least in a suitable approach and is likely to develop further, but I would like to say very clearly that I am opposed – and this is already repeated – to Hainburg being quickened with Lambbach, i.e. an au essentially with a corn field. I believe that Mr Anschober has even meant that one will also celebrate the Lambach protection area. There we will receive many protected areas if we protect the maize fields of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I don't want to hide – be careful with the applause! – that, for economic reasons, I am also opposed to this power plant of Lambbach, and I think, especially in Upper Austria, where we are increasingly in deficits in tourism, of course, it would be nice to use this money for the protection of the monument. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] This would bring us much more jobs, and you would have much more opportunities in your media to report on success in local television stations. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Colleague Doppelmüller! Kaprun is the largest tourist attraction in Salzburg! The Kaprun power plant!]] However, I believe that if one thinks that the Lambach power plant would become a tourist attraction, Mr Schwarzenberger. You should always leave the church in the village – both green and black. I've had a little pleasure with my colleague Wenitsch. Mr Brix has already pointed out this double bout of freedom argumentation: at the federal level for the national park and even urgently, but on the spot – Mr Wenitsch was completely shambled today; he has already spoken quite differently at meetings there – more or less against it. Mr Wenitsch meant that, as long as no agreement is reached with the citizens, this issue is not a matter of urgency in Parliament. He's wrong! We're talking about it today, and there's the National Park. So that's already sprinkling. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't know what "spreuch-reif" is!]] Perhaps you can explain this to me in a private vote, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I will make an effort!]] I'm just a chemist, and I think you're a lawyer. I'm sure you're a little bit more freaky. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We will both strive!]] That's right. On the ecological accounts, on the request initiated by Mr Barmüller. We've already been on the 12th. In March 1988, a resolution was adopted to convert the national accounts into an environmental account. In the discussion we had the opportunity to see that a lot has already been done in this area – also in Austria. Preparations have also been made by the Central Statistical Office, because the Federal Chancellor then commissioned the ÖSTAT in compliance with Parliament's mandate. There is already a study entitled "New Ways to Measurement of the Social Product". Mr Barmüller has therefore given us an impetus, which we are pleased to follow, namely, to call on the Federal Government to strengthen its efforts and to take measures so that we can actually come to a truly round national economic account. For it is really curious – in the explanatory statement, the example of oil fever – that the elimination of damage to an oil plague is a positive part of a national economic account. But to perhaps also bring an Austrian example that makes this very clear: The 3.9 billion schilling, which the Federal Government now has to put up for the elimination of the malaise in the fishing industry and in the Berger landfill, would also be a positive factor in the national economic accounts. - It can't be that way. A small note: These 3.9 billion schillings "thank" of course – I believe that it is true – to the country of Lower Austria, where already in 1975 it was known on the basis of opinions that it could not go on this way, but where one has looked further. It is a little problematic for me to complain about waste of money at the Semmering Base Tunnel in Pröll. He should take himself by the nose. The 3.9 billion that the Federation has to spend on the restoration of the landfills "thanks" to the people responsible for the country of Lower Austria – I say it so flat-rate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7065	Mr Wabl has asked for a personal response to the actual correction of Mr Wurmitzer. Deputies! You have not been mentioned by name, but I assume that you have been personally involved. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to § 58 para. 3 in the case of the actual reply to the statement of facts. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7093	Mr Wurmitzer claimed that, from the speaker's point of view – and he meant that time when I stopped at the speaker's desk – the untruth in connection with a statement by the combined general, Haider, had been said that Lambach was ineffective from a national economic point of view. I have said here that Collaborative General Haider has said this in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7128	Next speaker is Member of Parliament Dr. Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7150	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I have spoken in order not to give the impression here that this - under quotation marks - "National Park" is exclusively located in Lower Austria. For me as a Vienna MP and as a representative of the Danube City, where the heart of the National Park is to be settled, there is also a lot to say. It was precisely the liberals in Vienna and especially in this region from the beginning enthusiastic advocates of the National Park, because we have seen in it the opportunity to stop the land expansion of the socialist government majority in the Lobau in Vienna, which is to represent a central part of this national park. This – you have to admit this openly – has also been successful. But it is operated with the National Park of Open Labels. It must be said as it is. What exactly is on Vienna soil, where the outdoor landscape threatened to dry out, because there was simply a capping from the flow network of the waters to the Danube stream? – It has been possible to provide water again because of our initiatives, the Old Danube, which can be seen as the core of this flow network, but not in the direction of flow, but uphill. Although this is a wormhead drop, it obviously corresponds to socialist politics that water keeps the mountain flowing up. But what else happened? – There was no supply of water to the Lobau. One has made a second breakthrough to guarantee the supply, but it remains dry as before. We liberals have always had the hope that, if there is a nature reserve there, the oil tank warehouse in the Lobau area and the refinery associated with it will be relocated, because we think that there is no place in a nature reserve or in a national park. We also hoped that the massive environmental damage caused by the bombardment of the oil tank camps during the Second World War, where there was a huge oil lake – the need for renovation would amount to around 6 billion schilling if that contaminated Earth would be removed –, removed. However, this has not happened. These are two very essential reasons. It does not come about that now the middle of the Vienna part of the national park leads the refinery road, which is a synonym for it and where the question arises whether, according to the international IUCN guidelines, one can still speak of a national park on the Vienna side. However, I do not really care whether this label is maintained or not. I and my group are exclusively concerned with nature conservation in these areas. We are right in any initiative to take action there, because there are massive concerns on Lower Austrian soil, which are shared across all political groups, because people's rights or people's rights have not been sufficiently included. Federal Minister! As mentioned above, this label gap cannot be maintained forever as a life lie of the National Park. Either it is decided to set up a national park according to international guidelines, or to stop dreaming of it and to spread sand to the public in this regard, that a national park is to be built, which essentially has only the name National Park. Minister! mustard does not become ketchup that stands on the tube "Ketchup". That's just not going to happen, and that's a bit of ambiguity. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Not everything that is a comparison is limpy!]] That doesn't matter. The comparison may be deficient, but it's true. As I said, the initiative in this direction is correct, but it must not be forgotten that this law only concerns the establishment of an operating company and nothing else. There is a great deal of talk about the construction of the National Park. However, it is not built up by the National Park, but it is founded – not anymore – an operating company that is to take over the administration in this area. The second step has now been taken first, and now the first step has to follow. You must make a clear confession: If you are for a National Park, the oil tank must be relocated. Then, in the end, even more has to be done, because a national park with a power plant Freudnau is also incompatible internationally. In the same way, the environmental damage in the Lobau, which was caused by an oil lake, must also be solved. Minister! The second step will be taken today. They are called upon to make the first step, otherwise one will fall down. Otherwise, in this area we have a national park with oil tank bearings and oil lake in the ground and a power plant as a centrepiece. I don't think it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7189	Mr Murauer is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7211	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Rudi Anschober has called for thought and wishes to do so on the matter of Lambbach, which I would like to comment on. When I listened to Mr Wabl, he spoke about the horror, the infinite traces that the hydropower leaves behind, the hydroelectric power plants, for the next generations, he spoke about the buildings, about the need to emphasize in the construction of power plants. This then comes out this terrible stream, which we all have in abundance and which we so cheaply could so cheaply make available. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] All of this must not be true, but it can really be considered here. Mr Oberhaidinger! I'm allowed to ask you about this too. In Upper Austria, you have the opportunity to think about the power plant, the Lambach power plant. And it can be considered where this surplus comes from, from which it is always spoken, why it is so cheap and whether the nature, ladies and gentlemen in the House, has a cost point value. Mr Wabl and Mr Rudi In addition, this cost factor has not at all been mentioned, nor has it been made available abroad or in the country, whether electricity costs are only so cheap now or whether we have this guarantee for decades, as is the case for example with the electricity costs that occur in an Austrian hydroelectric power plant and which can be calculated. It can be considered, ladies and gentlemen, that a power plant can supply Lambach with 17 000 households. I would just like to say by the way, for example, that 16 000 tonnes of oil are saved or 24 000 tonnes of coal. I should also like to mention on this occasion the au which must be protected, but which I have been looking for in vain. Comparisons with Hainburg are not appropriate. It's not an au, it's a river. Anyone who was there can confirm that. Mr Wabl! To your personal response, as far as Collaborative General Haider is concerned. I should like to remind you that combined general Haider also did not point out the insanity of a power plant called Lambach or Hell. Since the workplaces are one such concern, I should like to remind you that, of course, work is necessary for the construction of a power plant. If I start with the cost of the power plant Lambach with 600 million schilling – or maybe 700, I don't know – and a working hour of 200 s, you may be able to count briefly, and it will be clear that it has to be many million hours of work. So jobs may also be mentioned in connection with the construction of a power plant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The electricity import to Austria accounts for 12 percent of nuclear power and 40 percent of calorie power plants in the Eastern Bloc States. I would just like to point out that we are drawing the low-cost current from these power stations. One thing I think we should be clear about, and we should also be in agreement in this House: that we consume as little energy as possible and that there would be job-saving, energy-saving measures if we were to optimise heating in buildings in the public and private sectors. A second – and here, I think, should we also agree –: If we consume energy, there should be as much renewable energy as possible. This includes the hydroelectric power station, which cannot simply be disputed, including Lambach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Many reserves should be made available from own power plants, i.e. from Austrian power plants. I should like to ask the Greens to take advantage of the rethinking of the credibility of their energy policy ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7287	Mr Oberhaidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the address of my previous speaker, Mr Murauer, I would like to say: Even if incorrect remarks, incorrect claims are repeated so often, they, Mr Murauer, do not become more correct. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since you have put the job argument so much in the foreground, I would like to say that I can only give you one right: [[Abg. Murauer: This is important to me!]] Investment in thermal insulation and other energy-saving measures are desirable. This actually creates jobs over time. You know that in the power plant construction of Lambach, perhaps 600, 700 people would be employed for a maximum of one and a half years. In the first place, such a project is capital-intensive, machine-intensive. When the power plant is finished, you will not see any more work force far and wide, because the power plant is easy to control and conduct externally. So when we talk about job creation and job security, I think there are many, many other ways to really act effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen here in the House! The topic of electricity from Nagymaros was addressed. I too am not pleased with the situation in which the association with this Treaty has come. But this electricity will now be delivered, and we will have to use this electricity as well as possible in Austria. For the next ten years – as long as this contract runs – it will be necessary to stop non-necessary power plant buildings until they may be necessary due to things that we cannot foresee today. It has been said today and regrets that the applications for the Lambbach power plant have always been rejected here in the House. I can only say to my group that it was not a matter of content, but we are still of the opinion that the Assembly of the National Council is not responsible for this, and therefore our rejection. Ladies and gentlemen! Legal goods must be considered against each other in a nature conservation procedure, at least in Upper Austria. Ecology and economics were weighed against each other. Second, this procedure would have been clearly used for ecology. In order not to be able to do so, the collegial body of state government, in this case by the majority of the ÖVP, took the procedure into the state government, and the nature conservation councillor as the responsible speaker was no longer able to adopt a decision. This situation in connection with the power plant Lambach, which clearly went towards ecology, is still underlined by the offer of the union. The association has linked this offer to demands. It was said that we deliver at those prices at which you produce. But you have to refrain from the expansion of shit and the new construction of the power plant Lambach. Ladies and gentlemen! One will have to ask the OKA responsible sooner or later whether they have really decided this question with the necessary commercial care. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am convinced that over a short or long time the Court of Auditors will deal with the decisions and decision-making of the ODA Board of Directors. Let me address another point that we have on the agenda. It's about the feed-in scheme. It has already been said by the head of the House today that we are going to put forward a motion for a resolution, a self-employed proposal which goes towards the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In this proposal we ask the Minister for Economic Affairs first of all: until we have a new arrangement to extend the existing General Agreement until the new one enters into force. We call for explicit rapid negotiations in this proposal. In this proposal, we demand that electricity generation from renewable sources be promoted very efficiently and without delay of competition, and I hope that we will actually have a new feed-in scheme very quickly, perhaps in the first half of 1997. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7358	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We are entering the voting procedure. I shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 342 of the supplements. Hiezu has Deputy Mag. Barmüller's request for separate vote with regard to § 3 para. 1 Z 4. I shall therefore vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We now proceed to the vote on § 3 para. 1 Z 4 as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is once again the majority. Accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also vote in favour of this draft law at third reading, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wenitsch and Mr Comrades on the Donau-Auen National Park. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 306 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 306 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. Accepted. (E 27.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 307 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 354 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted with a single vote. (E 28.) We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 355 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 356 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. I'm going to end the voting procedure. 7. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 288/A by Dr Walter Schwimmer, Ing. Erwin Kaipelund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Road Finance Act 1996 (347 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 233/A (E) by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Kurt Ederund Comrades on Regulations establishing derogations for use vehicles in the toll and vignette (348 of the supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Construction on Amendment 73/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichholdand comrades concerning the financing and completion of the section "Völkermarkt West – Klagenfurt Ost" of the A 2 South motorway (lock) (349 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7544	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at 3.30 p.m. the agenda will be interrupted because of the urgent question. These are the reports of the Building Committee on Amendments 288/A by Dr Walter Schwimmer, Ing. Erwin Kaipelund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Road Finance Act in 1996, 233/A (E) by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Kurt Ederund Comrades on regulations establishing derogations for use vehicles in the road toll and Vignette and 73/A (E) of Deputies Ing. Mathias Reichholdund comrades concerning the financing and completion of the section "Völkermarkt West – Klagenfurt Ost" of the A 2 South motorway (Lückenschluß). There was no oral reporting. The first speech is by Mr Rosenstingl. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7594	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we need to innovation the Federal Road Finance Act – a law that was only passed here in the house a few months ago by a majority of the government coalition, a law that once again takes the citizens into its pocket. However, it is clear and clear that this Federal Road Finance Act, as you all know, is a bad law to introduce the motorway vignette. This introduction of the Autobahnpickerl will of course not solve any traffic problems in Austria at all. There will be no less car traffic in Austria, just because you have to pay this vignette. There will be no change, no one will switch to public transport. The introduction of the motorway vignette is a purely monetary acquisition action by the Federal Government. The drivers are asked to check out once again because you are unable to make a proper budget policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It can only be remembered again and again that the Austrians have already paid for the motorways and the highways in Austria with their tax payments, and it is therefore a real advantage that the introduction of the motorway vignette will once again ask the Austrians to register. A supplement to mineral oil tax has been withdrawn so far, and this supplement should actually be used for the construction and maintenance of the high-level road network. The use of these funds is unclear. You're wasting these money with your policy. You destroy jobs, so you have to pay for unemployed people who are constantly creating this government coalition of Vrannitzky/Schüssel! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, this law is also a bad law because there are numerous special regulations and because the controlability of this vignette is very difficult. Moreover, the crisis-stricken tourism is once again pitied because it is to be feared that the introduction of this motorway vignette will also have an impact on tourism. It is also to be feared – and this could not be denied by anyone here in this House, in no debate, nor in the discussion in the Court of Auditors Committee – that there will be a departure on federal roads that drivers will no longer be able to use the motorways because of the vignette regulation in the future. It will therefore create disadvantages for all road users as well as for safety and the environment. In addition, there will be a displacement of the drivers from the city highways. It has been discussed many times. When Ditz was still a responsible minister, he meant he couldn't take out the city car, he didn't know how to do it. – If I take this into account that he does not know how to do this, it was good that Ditz was gone because it was a very simple solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It would be kind of you if you would lend me your ear, all the more, as you have shown a somewhat strange attitude to my speech in committee. When I said that at least something needed to be improved, for example, the urban highways are excluded from this scheme, you said: If you are against the law, why do you make suggestions for improvement? Federal Minister! I say it to you today, and I also say it for the Minutes: We make suggestions for improvement because you make a bad law and because we seem to be the only ones in this House who can improve this bad law. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is why I would like to make another motion for a resolution today: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's an area. A second area you have not regulated is the prevention of the double toad. They disadvantage our beautiful tourist areas in Austria, namely the southern and the western states, which have double sized areas. That is why I shall also put forward a motion for a resolution on this matter: [[Quoted print version removed]] In order to clarify to you how bad your law is, I have another motion for a resolution to make. You simply forgot to keep in your law how to control the toll picker for vehicles with alternating marks. I would therefore like to give you a suggestion and ask for your consent: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we face a completely different problem in the field of transport routes. We are faced with the problem of wasting money for environmental damage to be invested in pointless prestige projects. It must be taken into account that there is no factually justified basis for decision-making in the case of road investment. Federal Minister! This federal government has not yet brought it together to present a federal road map. We do not know which roads we should invest in, because your ministers climate and schools do not bring it together to present a road map. As a result, it is increasingly invested in senseless environmental-destructive projects. Ladies and gentlemen! And such a project – and this must also be said in the financing of traffic routes, in the financing of road constructions – which is to be financed, but which is pointless, is the Semmering base tunnel. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! In these days, during which a water collapse has occurred in the groundwork of the Semmering Base Tunnel – all of which we have predicted, the competent gentlemen who are working on it have predicted – you should act as a responsible transport minister within the Federal Government to stop this project. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The construction of the Semmering base tunnel must be stopped immediately. We cannot blame the environment for continuing to build there. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Schuster, stay with your leist!]] We cannot answer, Mr President, that we are endangering the water resources, something you are doing with your socialist prestige projects. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr President, I should like to thank As chairman of the Committee on Transport, they should be the first to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your socialist policy, Mr Collegue, will bring about a significant environmental damage. Against these environmental damage, against this anti-environmental policy, we will always be liberals, we will not stop telling you that you should stop this prestige project. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Don't take the money out of your pocket to the street users. You, the Socialists, are known for this. For 27 years, you have taken the money out of your pocket to all Austrians. Stop Finally, you are doing something for the citizens – you have learned it!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7780	The three motions for resolutions which have just been read are properly tabled and supported accordingly, and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Schwimmer has now been reported on the floor. Speech time: 5 minutes; You can of course continue after the debate on the urgent question. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7804	Mr President. High house! If one fails to take note of facts, one calls it ignorance. Mr Rosenstingl's speech was just an example of parliamentary ignorance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Rosenstingl stressed that the Minister in the Committee, in my view, was quite right to ask him: Why Make Do you propose improvements if you in principle reject the matter? Ignorance continues: Mr Rosenstingl does not know what we are debating today, what we are deciding today. He simply and simply gave his old speech about the Federal Road Finance Act did not even bother to see what is going on here today, because today improvements and reliefs are being made in the toll of the debate. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: But not enough!]] You can always talk about the extent of improvements or reliefs, but if you vote against them when you speak against improvements and against reliefs, I call that – I repeat that – parliamentary ignorance. [[Ongoing calls for tender in the liberals]] [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] What we decide today is a more user-friendly and, for many who do not want to use the motorways of Austria all year round, a much cheaper system. It is a regulation which takes into account what has been called for by Mr Rosenstingl in the absence of any knowledge of what is to be decided in the law which is to be decided today: to consider tourism. The main content of today's novelle, today's amendment to the Federal Road Finance Act, is the introduction of a so-called weekly vignette – with more than a week's vignette, but also, obviously, the honourable Member Rosenstingl does not know when he speaks against the law here. This is a weekly vignette, which is even valid for ten days, which includes two weekends and which can be purchased at an amount of 70 s. This is a major improvement, an essential relief that is not at all available elsewhere. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: You have no idea!]] Look into the Czech Republic, there is only the annual vignette. Ask your Vorarlberger colleagues how it is in Switzerland, there is also only the annual vignette. And it can't be that bad. I was on holiday this summer in Tyrol and Vorarlberg. In Vorarlberg I saw almost every car the Swiss tollvignette. People certainly don't travel every day on Swiss motorways, but it's worth not avoiding Swiss federal roads, but buying the Swiss Vignette and driving on the Swiss motorways with the Vignette. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] Why should the Austrians behave differently in their own country than they do on foreign motorways with the foreign annual vignette? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosenstingl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You haven't said "Ignorant" in a long time!]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, I have not understood Mrs Rosenstingl. I'd probably have the opportunity to say it again if I had understood it. I repeat: With this law we have created a weekly vignette, which is valid for ten days, which is to be purchased for an amount of 70 s and which takes into account, in particular, the need for tourism. We have further reliefs, especially with regard to criminal provisions, which someone who may have overlooked this is absolutely in line with the time-limits for payment by means of depository documents within three working days. There is now the possibility that the executive payments, tolls and surcharges will also be accepted; this will provide, in particular, foreign car users entering without tolls with the possibility of reconciling the matter without any security benefits, without the seizure of any items.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7901	Deputies! Excuse me, I'll have to interrupt you soon.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7917	I'm going to finish my speech and ask you to call me back.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7955	Thank you. Request for urgent procedure by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, Ing. Monika Langthaler, Andreas Wablund Comrades to the Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection concerning the use of Article 16 of the Release Directive 90/220/EEC (1387/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7992	High house! We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 1387/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8064	I give the floor to Mrs Petrovic as the first questioner. [[Abg. Mr Petrovic: Rules of Procedure!]] Please put to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8091	Mr President. We attach great importance to the fact that the Federal Minister for Health is present in this debate. I therefore make the request,... [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer is rushing into the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mrs. Federal Minister was only held outside by your colleague Stoisits!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We just wanted to wait.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8141	I will continue as follows: I give the floor to Mrs Petrovic as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure: Time limit 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8163	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Club has made a urgent request to a very special area of genetic engineering, for the first time a urgent request with a single question. I know – and you all know that – that there are many open points in the field of genetic engineering: scientific issues, political issues, issues of social tolerance. And there are different assessments – including for the greens – between medical applications, agricultural applications of genetic engineering, because the benefits – or the lack of benefits – can also be qualified differently. But now, Mrs. Federal Minister, this is a single question. We could discuss all these other questions – and we agreed – the scientific arguments per and contra, the discussion of the benefits: What does society have about it? Is it harmful, or is it useful, that we could actually discuss all of this in a subcommittee still maturely. But one point has to be decided here and today, because this problem can no longer be postponed: It is about authorisation, it is about placing genetically modified soya on the European markets. This soya is currently being harvested in America. The harvest is poured together: genetically modified soybeans and natural soybeans. These products are to come to the European markets. Before the EU vote in Austria, this Federal Government clearly promised the population, under the title "more safety for consumers": Healthy food, strict standards can be maintained, consumers will benefit from stricter protection rules in food labelling. Now we are faced with the situation that these genetically modified soybeans are to be placed on the market unmarked and contained in numerous products: in fats, in oils, in sweets, in bread spreads – and especially in many animal feed products. Unidentified, without information from consumers! Mrs. Federal Minister! In addition, there is a procedure in the committee which gives us real thought. You know, we were ready to compromise here. We would certainly have agreed to discuss all open questions in a subcommittee, but with the exception of this question which we have raised as a urgent one today, namely: Does the Federal Government fail to allow such genetically modified foods, or at least to ensure that each product is marked, and you too, Mrs Federal Minister, are breaking the promise to the Austrian population? Mrs. Federal Minister! That's a political question. You have already agreed to this in a debate in this House. That's not a scientific question. You know how different the arguments in science are today. They also know how powerful, how financially powerful lobbies put pressure on this. There are also arguments of a part of science that considers this technology – also in agriculture, also in food production – to be safe. But you know just as well as we Mrs Federal Minister that there are very serious arguments, serious and objective arguments that point to a huge danger potential. – Mrs Federal Minister, you are the person in the Federal Government who has the power to make a political strategy out of these arguments of critics. They have the instrument of Article 16 of the EU Release Directive in their hands. We're just asking you today: Will you use this instrument – yes or the no? This Release Directive does not require the safety of a product to be harmful. That would be even more beautiful if one had to prove that something is certainly dangerous, life-threatening or ecologically destructive. No, no, no, This Directive requires in its Article 16 a justified reason to believe that a genetically modified product poses a risk to human health or the environment. And then you are entitled, and I even think you are obliged, Mrs Federal Minister, to use this instrument. Mrs. Federal Minister! Those economic forces that make pressure towards approval, towards out of consideration of caution, are powerful, are financially strong. She is the Minister for Consumer Protection. If there are legitimate concerns, then you must act, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are very new arguments here, and they have not been disassembled: not at EU level and not in Austria. It has not been tested whether these herbicide-resistant soybeans, which the company claims – the company MONSANTO, one should also call names there – are really identical, really equal. It is not a question of whether this herbicide, a total herbicide against which the plant is made resistant, is really mined. No such tests have been made at all. Tests were carried out with untreated soybeans, which were only made resistant but were then not treated with the Herbicide. These tests are invalid, they are irrelevant. The test was inadequate! We know that herbicide resistance and the use of herbicide can permanently influence the metabolism of the plant. This has already happened to other plants with other herbicides. These are not assumptions, but that is reality, Mrs. Federal Minister! There's no doubt. We know that the advocates of this technology have repeatedly misinterpreted the untruth. Mrs. Federal Minister, the potential for damage, the spread of the plant, the resistance to other plants, for example in the case of weeds, is not excluded. – These plants, these products are to be put into circulation worldwide, i.e. also in countries with warmer climate, where the seeds are very likely to survive. The company argued with the northern hemisphere, with the cold areas, only: This does not correspond to the radius of action. – Again, the company has informed inaccurately, incompletely informed. The reasons for the use of Article 16 are given a hundredfold. Mrs. Federal Minister! Again: It is a political question, and you cannot withdraw from this decision! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is more about, Mrs Federal Minister, than about this request to address the immense environmental and health risks: This proposal represents the situation of health policy in Austria, perhaps also of politics in Austria. The question here is: What is the importance of health protection, what importance does the precautionary principle have, and what limitless power do certain corporations now have, apparently, who do not even want to allow the review – not yet the complete ban, but the review – and to exert pressure on the rulers? The question arises – and she asks herself at this request, here and today, and she asks you, Mrs. Krammer: Will that, will your decision become a "twenten village" or a "csernophone" of genetic engineering? This decision goes far beyond the occasion. And it is more important for a second reason than the occasion. It is a question of whether the rulers in this country, whether the Social Democratic Group is also dealing with the fact that the policy towards the supremacy of the groups is on the retreat – or whether they dare to re-regulation in a very important area in the sense of health protection. The sympathy of the entire Austrian population, the sympathy of the Austrian environmental movement would then be certain to you. Mrs. Federal Minister! Wings You are withdrawing the policy that is under way in all areas? In the rental law, on questions of equal treatment for women, it is found everywhere: There are so powerful forces, and they don't want that. They have a very concrete instrument, and the question arises: Do you take it – or don't you take it? Make politics or let your hands fall into the lap and say: The others are too powerful, I don't trust myself anymore. We need a reregulation in many areas. There are certainly also obsolescent regulations. You can certainly partly debureaucratize and reduce unnecessary regulations. But here we have an area where there is an urgent need for a health-oriented, ecological re-regulation. A third question of principle, namely the credibility of politics, also the credibility of the SPÖ. You have just discussed a lot about election results in the last few days, the question of why more and more people are staying away from voting decisions, and you have also discussed the ways in which politics is presented. This is an area where the whole, quite overwhelming majority of consumers demand answers. It's an area you can't keep silent. This is not a question of a sales strategy, it is a question of credibility. And the content of credibility is only given if one puts arguments on the table, does not allow mystery, goes into every argument of the critical side, which has no economic advantage from it, and on which a political decision is taken. You can't get away from that. The delay in committees, a drawer is useless! As I said, The genetically modified soya is now coming to the markets, and that is why it has to be decided politically. – Again: The decision is yes or no, and you are called upon to make such a decision. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] The question of the credibility of the government or SPÖ is also a question of: Course change or stagnation of politics? We all have the feeling that there are great dangers in this country that the protest behaviour that the abstinence in elections is on the rise. There are the reasons why very important decisions are simply not taken, postponed, postponed or ignored. If there is to be a change of course in this country, if one finally wants to break out of this stagnation, then something has to happen – and I have the impression that some of the government parties want it to see that it cannot go on, that the population can fall into total resignation, and that politics is anyway only estimated for either corrupt, unnecessary or out of power. If you feel that a change of course must be initiated at least once, then it is one of the most important areas of politics, an area in which you can prove whether you are ready for such a change of course – or whether you can clear the field of stagnation. I come to a very last point, Mrs Federal Minister, to your very personal credibility, to your very personal role in the government. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have taken over a very difficult place, a place that – perhaps next to the environmental resort – is in the role of having to engage in, in part, almost overpowerful forces of a decommissioned market. It is no coincidence that in the field of the environment and the health sector, the fluctuation of those who act there is so great – greater than in all other resorts, because, as has been said, the task is really a difficult one, an almost insoluble one. I know that you, Mrs Minister, are under pressure: in your own group, from parts of this group, not from all, in the government, and that you are under the pressure of economic lobbies. Only, Mrs. Federal Minister: They can also have allies, much, much more than those opposed. The whole Austrian population, the entire environmental movement could be your allies, and these are reliable allies who do not forget who once made a courageous decision, and they say so in the public. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have always stressed that, after an initial stagnation, you have made courageous decisions in your office, such as in the re-regulation of the Supreme Council of Sanity, in the unbundling of conflicts of interest or in the preservation of at least limited possibilities for certain natural remedies that should have been prohibited. I have given you respect because I know that you were under severe pressure at the time. But you have so far acted very undecided in the field of genetic engineering, better: react. My colleague, Monika Langthaler, will then go further into that. But this indecision must now end. As I said, I know you are under pressure, but you have to decide, Madam Minister, with whom you are going now, whose arguments you are taking seriously! I guarantee you: A courageous decision would be honoured, and such a decision makes you indisputable. At the very end, Mrs Federal Minister, and also the representatives of the Socialist Group, I am now literally quoting what was not so long ago, namely, on 25 February. It was said in this House on April 9, 1996, and it addresses me. Then you said to me: "They have also spoken to the soybean in America. I share these concerns. I'm part of that group you've been talking about. This hurt me in the soul! I once talked to people from the United States who were with me and asked why I am not in favour of soybeans coming to Austria. I have said that I am in favour of labelling. Then they said: It's not usual in America. You don't know which soybeans are genetically modified and which are not. – That’s what I said: As long as this is not clear in America, I am against the fact that soybeans come to us from America for the reasons you mentioned." [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The one from which this quote comes, you are yourself. You have these words here in the House on 25 May. It was said in April 1996. We were very happy at the time. We have seen here a sign of hope that you will also put yourself on the right side in questions of genetic engineering, which has always been honoured. You said: I am against the fact that soybeans come to us from America. Mrs. Federal Minister! Now the moment is reached when this decision is to be made. Now I ask you to remember your own words and to remain true to this promise to the Austrian people and to this House. I'm not submitting a motion of censure here yet. We await your decision, Mrs Federal Minister, your answer to the only question we ask you: If you apply Article 16, prohibit the unmarked authorisation of genetically modified soybeans or not? We will make our further parliamentary behaviour dependent on that of your reply. I am also sure that your answer will also be heard far outside of this House and that the Austrian environmental movement will also make its further behaviour dependent on your response. I'm looking for You urgently, Mrs. Federal Minister, will fulfil your task as Minister for Consumer Protection!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8342	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection has now notified itself. Mrs Bundesminister, please do not exceed the speaking time for 20 minutes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8363	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few basic comments: Biotechnology and genetic engineering as a sub-area of biotechnology are becoming increasingly important in more and more human areas of life. Biotechnology, such as the fermentation technique used in brewing beer, has been used by people for 6,000 years. However, many Austrians are critical of recent developments in many areas of genetic engineering. The genetic engineering – that is: Methods with which genetic material can be characterized, isolated and recombined – has developed since the beginning of the 1970s. The biochemical and cell biological techniques of genetic engineering are constantly expanding the spectrum of biotechnology products and services to an extent that has not yet been established. Currently, the use of genetic engineering in the fields of medicine, animal production, plant production and biotechnology processes is concentrated in raw material production and conversion. Let me present in the following key aspects and guidelines of the future Austrian health policy in the field of genetic engineering. The use of genetic engineering research and processes in the field of biomedicine is the relatively greatest acceptance among the local population. Many applications of genetic technology in biomedicine have to be assessed positively from today's point of view. In this context, it is particularly important to highlight the development of genetically generated diagnostics, drugs to combat and control diseases such as cancer, AIDS, cardiovascular disease and multiple sclerosis. In contrast to the positive possibilities offered by genetic engineering in the field of biomedicine, their risks stand. Policy has the task of preventing the misuse of genetic data and of deciding to oppose the temptation to intervene in the human germ. Environmental biotechnology has a wide range of applications and application potentials for the renovation of contaminated areas and waste treatment. Compared to physical cleaning methods, on-site biological soil renovation is much more cost-effective and causes a much lower environmental impact. The risks of environmental biotechnology – for example, the displacement of natural soil flora by genetically modified micro-organisms, the triggering of diseases in plants, animals and humans – must, of course, be particularly carefully and strictly observed and controlled. Undoubtedly most sensitive to health policy is the use of genetic engineering in food and agricultural technology. Austria's health policy was and has been called for in view of the technological and many-site revolutionary upheavals that genetic engineering brought and continually brought with it in the field of biotechnology. A first and at the same time very essential step in regulating research with genetically modified organisms, their release for research purposes and the placing on the market of genetically modified products, was the genetic engineering law adopted by Parliament in June 1994. The aim of this law was and is to achieve a high level of safety for human health and the environment and to promote the use of genetic engineering for the benefit of humans – as it expressly states. In addition, the Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection drew up implementing regulations on the Genetics Act on intra-Austrian legislation. In addition to the system regulation, which regulates the safety of works with genetically modified organisms in closed systems, a regulation on the regulation of the consultation procedures provided for in the Genetic Engineering Act and the Release Regulation, which imposes strict information on applicants of releases for research purposes, will soon enter into force. Let me once again stress that the strict Austrian legislation ensures safety for human health and the environment. In general, the Federal Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection, as the approval authority for releases for research purposes, pursues the policy of decision-making on a case-by-case basis. This policy is a guarantee that, on the one hand, the precautionary principle, i.e. all safety standards for humans and the environment, will be in line with, on the other hand, with no inappropriate restrictions on research in the field of genetic engineering and its application. In this context, please consider the possible future uses of genetic engineering in the field of medicine. In contrast to the release for research purposes of genetically modified organisms, which are essentially approved at national level, decisions on the re-marketing of genetic engineering products will be taken within the framework of an EU-wide authorisation procedure. The labelling of these products is therefore of great health and consumer importance, i.e. genetically modified food and agricultural products offered to consumers for sale. I have always been committed to EU-wide comprehensive labelling. For this reason, in October 1995 Austria, together with Germany, Denmark and Sweden, voted against the adoption of the Council's common position on the Novel-Food Regulation. The text of the regulation submitted at that time did not correspond to Austrian ideas in the sense of the best possible consumer information. Austria shall, without delay, support all the amendments made by the European Parliament to the Novel Food Regulation and shall also make every effort to ensure that these amendments are accepted by the Council, as far as possible. In addition, I called on the Ministers for Health of Germany, France, Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands and the United Kingdom to support the Austrian position. At present, as you know, the Novel Food Regulation will continue to be negotiated in the Conciliation Committee. Given the delays in implementing an EU-wide labelling scheme, I was commissioned in the early summer of this year to draw up two regulations on the labelling of genetically modified food and agricultural products. In fact, I consider it a health and consumer policy task to give Austrian consumers the opportunity to opt as a powerful consumer for or against genetically modified foods. Sufficient labelling of all genetically modified food and agricultural products offered for sale in Austria is an essential prerequisite for the free choice of consumers. In this context, I would like to highlight positively the activities of many Austrian but also foreign food producers and trade companies who have followed our proposals and have declared themselves prepared to voluntarily label genetically modified foods, or who call on their suppliers to supply exclusively marked or genetically-free products. In addition to the policy of comprehensive labelling of genetic engineering products, I would like to refer to the import ban on genetically modified organisms in accordance with Article 16 Release Directive 90/220: An import ban on the part of an EU Member State can generally be declared if there is a legitimate reason to believe that a genetically modified product authorised throughout Europe in accordance with the EU authorisation procedure poses a risk to human health and the environment. However, in order to be able to enforce such an import ban, there must be evidence that is not yet available in the safety assessment under the original authorisation procedure. If the justified suspicion arises that genetically modified products pose a risk to the health of Austrians or the domestic environment, I will not hesitate to express such a ban on imports. The political decision on or against an import ban can and will therefore always be based on the individual case. In the current discussion on the import of genetically modified soya beans, there is currently no evidence that has not yet been available in the assessment of safety under the original authorisation procedure and could therefore justify an import ban in accordance with Article 16. The more important, therefore, will be a comprehensive and rapid implementation of the labelling requirement for genetically modified foods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My next concrete projects in the field of genetic engineering could be outlined as follows: Firstly, the implementation of a broad information campaign aimed at raising the level of subjective information on genetic technology and its impact on the Austrian population. Secondly, I will sign both regulations on the labelling of genetically modified products and forward them to the two Ministers responsible, Farnleitner and Bartenstein, and I urge the ministers of the ÖVP to give their signature in the interests of consumers so that these important regulations can enter into force without delay. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 94 percent of the Austrian population are for the labelling of genetically modified products. Their desire is taken into account. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! Soybeans, which are not marked, cannot therefore come to Austria. Thirdly, An import ban pursuant to Article 16 of the EU Release Directive is a central political instrument for me to prevent risks to human health and the environment of this country. I will always use this instrument if the introduction of genetically modified organisms endangers the health of Austrians or our environment. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore answer the question addressed to me as follows: In accordance with Article 16 of the Release Directive, a Member State may temporarily restrict or prohibit the use and/or sale of a product declared in accordance with this Directive and for which written consent has been granted in its territory, provided that it has legitimate grounds to believe that this product poses a risk to human health or the environment. The condition for such a measure is the existence of scientific evidence which has not yet been available and cannot therefore be assessed in the context of the assessment of the previous authorisation procedure. Scientific evidence that the genetically modified soybeans of MONSANTO pose a risk to human health or the environment, but did not exist at the time of the EU authorisation procedure and have not been provided until now. In view of the evidence given, a national ban cannot at present be justified on the basis of this Release Directive. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if new findings give rise to the legitimate suspicion that this or that genetically modified product poses a risk to the health of the Austrians or to the domestic environment, then I will not hesitate to express such an import ban for a moment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8504	We are now going into the debate. I recall that the total speaking time per club is 25 minutes and within that the maximum speaking time is 10 minutes. The first word is spoken by Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8528	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! – Ms. Minister! I think you've made one of your biggest political mistakes today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think you would have had the opportunity to leave this House today and not only stand in Austria as a courageous, committed minister who is committed to health, preventive health protection in the interests of consumers, but you could have also left the house and become known throughout Europe, one who has actually dared to offer the multis in the genetic field. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The biggest was the call!]] It is not a question of providing further scientific reasons, which were supposed not yet available at the time. We have taught these documents. Not only are environmental protection organisations and greens here in Austria, but they have been shown throughout Europe over the last few weeks, documents, studies have been sent to the Commission, which drew attention to the fact that new evidence clearly indicates that there are health and environmental signs when these genetically modified soybeans come to the market. I just don't understand why you're so afraid to apply this article 16 here. When do you want to apply it if not in this particular case? You have just said - I am right in saying - that the application of this Article 16 in which it is specifically a ban on imports of a product must be considered on a specific individual case. This has happened in the last few weeks. We are now faced with the situation that in the next two weeks imports will come from the United States. We are now faced with the situation of politicians having to decide because neither the Commission nor a politically elected body, but elected representatives, must finally act on behalf of government, and that which is always promised that it will be a matter of consumer protection. 90 percent of the Austrian and European population do not want these products. The second important area: It's a big risk, we can't rule it out. Need the first dead to say: Now I think it's dangerous!Unknown term type: "%s".? It may sound like something to you, but I'll tell you one thing: We know from tests with genetically modified soya how some allergy people have responded. We have discussed this during the last debate here in this House. I also say this as a person concerned, Mrs Minister, I told you at the time. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: There's the label!]] At that time, there was an attempt to implement the gene of the paranut into the soybean. What this has done, you know: Nut-allergics – I and many others belong to it – suffocate when they eat it. That's so simple. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: If it is marked, don't suffocate, because then don't eat it!]] – But it is not marked! Until your regulation comes, Mrs. Minister, the soya is on the market for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] In two weeks there are these products in Europe, in two weeks the animals will be fed in Austria and throughout Europe and there will be no label. We assume from a status quo that there is no marking. You say you will sign this decree, and Mr Farnleitner of the right half will say: I'm sorry, that's just not possible, we've had that in the last few weeks, and that's been documented in the newspapers length times wide, there's no marking. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You can act and do it!]] Then go out and tell me now that the order is ahead. Then we ask Mr Farnleitner! Get him! He is in the house, the next item on the agenda concerns him anyway. Yes, the Regulation enters into force with 1. November in force, that's in a few days. With 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So all these products are marked. Skill You guarantee this here and today, Mrs. Minister? [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Krammer.]] You play the ball now elegantly back to the ÖVP. Two ministers are not here today, and you say: I wash my hands in innocence. Many environmental organisations and scientists have presented new opinions. I can quote them here later, if you want, in detail. There is new evidence that it is simply justified to apply Article 16 and that it is absolutely justified to prohibit imports. What would happen then? – Then a new investigation would begin, it would be examined throughout Europe within the Commission, and the Council could also take a qualified majority decision. The policy is in demand here, and it is in fact the policy of protecting consumers and of preventing health policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Mrs. Minister, come here and say: I am sure that – and you have already said this before – this will be marked. What my two colleagues are doing on the part of the ÖVP, I don't know, it's none of my business, maybe we have the label sometime. . We are a little skeptical because you have announced a lot of things that just didn't happen. At a press conference on 13 October, a press conference was held in Brussels. For example, in May of this year, you said that you will be personally committed to introducing a preliminary moratorium on the release of genetically modified organisms or plants from the agricultural and food industries. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: That's wrong!]] They were so quoted, we saw it all in the "time in the picture" at the time, that is to be preserved in the O-tone and not only read in the APA. A few weeks later, after the pressure – above all, I suppose, the various industrial and economic operators active in the field of genetic engineering – you told me in a parliamentary response, the term moratorium and the time limit of two years are not yours and you will therefore no longer be working in this area. - So much for your promises. There is little reason for us to believe today that if you do not take the most important and actually effective step – an import ban under Article 16 of the EU Release Line – you will then take the less strong step: a labelling requirement. How do you take the confidence that we are losing your enforcement power vis-à-vis the EIA? And how do you understand your position as a consumer protectionist, the highest consumer protectionist in Austria? [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I understand correctly!]] Understanding correctly You do? – You seem to understand that here and today, if you do not have the courage to pronounce an import ban, play the ball elegantly to the ÖVP and we do not have at our disposal a minister who can ask if it is to be labeled from 1. November – that would be the only right time – will come in Austria. What, Mrs Minister, will you do if the two gentlemen do not sign? What will you do? What excuse will you again stand in front of this House in a few weeks' time? What I do not understand is why a company like MONSANTO, which we know from earlier years, can exert such a great influence on politics. We know – and this has been described very clearly recently in the "time" – that the senators were simply bought in America. They were simply lubricated, and so the corresponding permits were purchased. MONSANTO has long since gained sad fame in America because she has delivered "Agent Orange" in the Vietnam war because she has noticed many lubrications and because she has bought a lot of approvals especially in the area of the total herbicide through massive pressure on politics over the last decades. That's a multi, and these deserve double: They have the gene-manipulated seed and deliver the corresponding total herbicide immediately to it. Those farmers in America who use the seed are contractually obliged to buy the Herbicide only from MONSANTO. So it is more than necessary to put these multis in their barriers and finally make a courageous policy. Finally, I put forward a motion for a resolution by the three opposition parties. [[Quoted print version removed]] Please be able to make political decisions at last! Do not let yourself be driven by various multis from America, from the European Union, which make much profit to the detriment of the European and Austrian peoples and whose policies have already been noticed by the fact that they have never done anything about health and environmental protection. The Austrian Federal Government has promised to play a pioneering role in the EU. Prove it! This is certainly the best and most important occasion this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8681	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Reitsamer is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8705	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if you refuse genetically engineered or genetically modified foods like me – I have never made a living here in the house – you must not close your eyes to the reality that more and more such foods are coming to the market. It is therefore particularly important that consumers are informed accordingly, and this can only be done by means of a complete label. There is not the import ban in one case or another, but a complete marking the recipe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Especially the Socialists of Austria in the European Parliament, the former Ilona Graenitz, have been very strongly committed to amending the completely inadequate novel food regulation and have also tabled a number of amendments themselves. Unfortunately, they are inferior to this, not least because of the fact that representatives of the ÖVP have gone on glue to the lobbyism of the food industry, which I had to experience and observe on the ground. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The vote in Strasbourg is one, ladies and gentlemen, the lips at home are the other. Now this novel food regulation lies with the Conciliation Committee – decision: please wait. Yesterday, according to the fact that there will be an emergency of the Greens – I almost expected it – I have also been able to determine the power act of Minister Bartenstein. In the "Standard" it was said to coke with an import ban on soy soy and to bring Federal Minister Krammer to Zugwang. – On the other hand, I am confident that the regulations prepared by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs for the national single entry with regard to labelling would find the full agreement of the coalition partner, it should be easy to obtain the signatures of the Ministers Farnleitner and Bartenstein required for the adoption of this regulation. ==References====External links== August 1996, under the title "Gentechnik: How's it going?" read: The Austrian Ministry of Health prepares for the case that it does not work with the Novel Food Regulation. In order to achieve this, the drafts for two Austrian regulations on the debate could be adopted in the short term, covering the right-free situation in this area up to a European decision by a national regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! If I had known what I had known in the afternoon, I would not have even taken part in the request for a postponement in the Committee on Health. The S & D Group is in favour of a complete labelling of genetically modified food and sees national alone as an important signal towards the EU, especially as more than 90 percent of the Austrian population want this complete label. Ladies and gentlemen! The choice of food is an area in which most people insist on their right to design and their freedom of choice, and which calls for political co-decision. This legitimate call for the citizens to ignore was for me to cut down a piece of living democracy. Release for research purposes is a national decision, a decision to be taken on a case-by-case basis. The placing on the market of genetically modified foods should be regulated throughout Europe, at least, I say, for I would like to. Since this decision, as has already been said, is waiting for itself, but the genetically modified soya from the USA will reach European markets in the next few days and a ban on imports under Article 16 of the EU Release Directive has no prospect of success, national regulations must be adopted most urgently. I do not see where the Federal Minister should have made a mistake, but it is probably a prepared speech by Mr Langthaler, who could no longer be rewritten. Federal Minister Farnleitner told us today if no EU marking decision until 31. ==References====External links== The members of the EIAs informed us that they wanted a deadline until February 1997. Ladies and gentlemen, then we no longer need the national regulation, because then the market is mixed. Although the food producers have let us know that they are covered with soya and should not buy for the time being, one thing is certain: There are enough companies that would now use this right-free space and cover themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Don't tell us, that's to the government's address!]] Listen, I've been listening to you too. Can we get in touch with this, Mrs. Colleague? Let me finish! We then have the mixture of the market, which we can no longer reverse and no longer control. Therefore: national regulation now, otherwise the trust of the Austrian population is really shaken. We need this regulation now. If the EU then adopts a corresponding regulation, then it is easy to take this national regulation back. That's not a problem. I ask the ÖVP whether it can afford to go over over 90 percent of the Austrian population or more. It is probably a cheap success with the Social Democrats, because today it was read in "NEWS" that one would not want to leave the SPÖ a margin of time. - Come on! I think this is a good thing when it comes to the health protection of the Austrian population. The answer can only be complete labelling. Mrs Bundesminister's orders are finished, are signed by her, are forwarded to the government partners so that they can sign and the regulations can enter into force without delay. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] It is now up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. We owe it to Austrian consumers and as a tourist country – you always place so much value on it – to our guests, too, to exclude any, even the slightest uncertainty about the use of genetics when placing food on the market. However, if the EIAs are to present their motion for a resolution today and are to continue to delay what we think is important and right, then we too will put forward a resolution, and we are sure to find a majority for this. So it is with you now, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. The Federal Minister does not intend to withdraw such an important decision. Let's rather keep the sand in the gearbox of the genetic engineering lobby, as is often claimed by us. The Austrians expect this from us, and it is important and right that we behave in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8763	Mr Schuster is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8784	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This letter is dated 29. ==References== The Austrian Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family writes to the Commissioner responsible in Brussels, Ritt Bjerregaard – I quote from this letter: I am very concerned about the uncontrolled and unidentified soya import – also with regard to the conciliation talks with the European Parliament on the Novel Food Regulation and here again, in particular with regard to labelling obligations. It would be highly irresponsible if the EU market were to flood right now and thus immediately before a new system of labelling requirements, at least for food, with unmarked genetically modified products. - Quote. ==References== On September 1st, before there was a urgent request from the Green Members in this House and before my previous speaker said that the Social Democrats had done everything possible and the People's Party was on the brink here. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is: The European People's Party has requested that these applications be joined by the Socialists in the European Parliament. The applications have found a majority. The Council was forced to carry this issue in the Conciliation Committee, to discuss it there and to find a new formulation, namely: a complete labelling of all gene-treated foods. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fact! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Mrs. Reitsamer, why don't you say that?]] High house! No technology moves the public as massively and at the same time as the genetic technology. Even the peaceful use of nuclear energy comes back when it comes to genetic technology – not only because it is about opportunities to change everything alive, but because this matter is so difficult to see. The genetic engineering itself awakens the strongest emotions throughout the range of deep fears, ladies and gentlemen, to great expectations. It is not to be expected otherwise, here we are dealing with interventions in the most subtle life-controls, to conscious and targeted influence on the mass of inheritance, to change the course for all subsequent generations. Special ethical questions arise in the application of genetic technology in the human field if, for example, conditions for early stages experiments are created for human life when, for example, analyses are used to identify threats to disease and hidden hereditary strains. High house! The constant increase in human knowledge and intervention enabled the explosion of the so far defined natural requirement. We do not need the punctual lighting and consideration of what genetic engineering can do, we need to take a look at the whole thing. In view of the whole, also, High House should not push away its own limitedness, but integrate it into the culture of life. It may be held in general: The development of genetic engineering is most advanced in medicine. There is a wealth of practical applications there. None of the parties represented in the House doubt the need. Insulin for diabetes, anticancer medicines – all this is approved and considered to be of course. Now in detail, ladies and gentlemen, on the content of the urgent question. The Green Members note that in this autumn, unidentified food will be found on the sales shelves for the first time. In principle, as a speaker of the government parties, especially the Austrian People's Party, I would like to say that Austria itself has one of the strictest genetic engineering laws, which were adopted on 1 January. In 1995 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Any release shall be requested and authorised by the responsible operator. In Austria, this is done by the Federal Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection. But one thing has to be clear to us: Fear has influenced the story of us people. History has been and is an ever-increasing debate with fears. It is a constant cultural achievement – and this call is to us politicians – to create fear-free spaces and not, as some Members try to incite fear on this sensitive subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am with all those who say: Yes, there is an Austrian survey, and 80 percent of consumers reject genetically modified foods. – Yes, well, a sign that Austrian consumers are mature in this matter. Mrs. Federal Minister! If we are talking about whether Austria itself should be active nationally, that Europe is called for, because we have open borders, I would like to say to you: If you are at least convinced that gene-treated products are imported that are harmful to health, please use the applicable Austrian food law, there is always the possibility to act. I would like to ask you to take this matter into consideration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In principle, a complete ban on genetic technology is unrealistic, considering that since 1986 more than 4,000 have been carried out worldwide, in the European Union more than 500 releases have been made with genetically modified plants. But one must be clear: Patenting of genetically modified animals and plants must be prevented under all circumstances – it must be rejected. The free use of plant and animal breeding must be preserved. Mrs. Federal Minister! A European effort is needed in addition to Austrian solidarity, and I do not think that you have already given up the external game in Brussels and Strasbourg. I therefore call on you, Mrs Federal Minister, to also make a European effort on this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria's farmers want to offer the consumer health-free food and advertise high quality from natural production. The vast majority of consumers want the undistorted products in the future. So genetically modified foods, Mrs Federal Minister, are absolutely indispensable.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8849	The next speech is by Mr Mag. It's up to you. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8870	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For today's urgent question, I would have wished for my group that the Federal Minister should answer her with a single word, with a clear 'yes'. This "yes" has, unfortunately, disappeared. The reason for this was comprehensive and detailed. With regard to the promises it has made to us with regard to the labelling regulation, we will be able to assess in the future how this will work in practice. I believe that Mrs Reitsam's recognition of the fact that at least today she is in a position to recognize the mistakes she has made in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the request of Mr Petrovic. Mrs Reitsamer! You are honoured, but unfortunately it is too late – if today in plenary, as a result of the changed attitude, you do not follow a commitment to this request. I believe that the release of genetically modified soybeans and the fearless addition to traditional agricultural soybean produced in America is a far greater and more dramatic problem than it is for many Austrian consumers today. It is clear and clear: Once the batches of Unilever and other oil producers have flooded the European market, a clear division, even with the strictest labelling obligation for soya and soybean products that are significantly changed – at least 60 percent of all food products, from the food for children to the elderly, which is not in contact with Soya – will no longer be possible. Products that are used for diabetics and extreme risk groups in the population as the only food for allergies and other diseases will also be significantly changed. I therefore believe that this problem is more serious and urgent than many other policy problems, and that the Health Committee at its last meeting has made a wrong outcome by focusing on a majority of the delay in time and not on quick action. The company MONSANTO authorised a genetically modified cotton plant in America two years ago, which was grown in a large variety in America and which should have had the enormous advantage of being immune to the most dangerous pest of cotton plants. For a year this product has worked. This year, however, the American cotton industry has had the biggest crop harvest for 42 years, because the genetically modified cotton of MONSANTO is in its core and is not suitable for economic use. [[Abg. Wabl: This is impressive!]] Mr Schuster was written in the main book: The American farmers – certainly not farmers according to our farm image, but also farmers – today have difficult processes in another legal system to demonstrate by proof of injury who is responsible for this miscarriage. Faith You really, Mr Schuster, as an agricultural representative, who is supposed to represent his profession here, will be compatible with the agriculture and health of our consumers in the future, with the exception of the last sentence you said? Ladies and gentlemen! Remember that if you do not take into account today's joint opposition initiative, the costs of this failure will undoubtedly have to be brought in through the health system, as demonstrated today in the financing debate, on the verge of financial viability. Thus generated allergies or other health damage will not treat and pay the companies Unilever and MONSANTO, but the Austrian taxpayers – from the smallest contributor to the multimillionaire. We Austrians will make the contributions nationally and will have to make the repair of this wrong decision. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like you to change your answer to this urgent question during this debate and to take a responsible attitude towards Austrian consumers, in line with your role as a health and consumer protectionist. It was clearly to be heard and seen when you followed your statements of the last months and weeks that you actually took a different attitude in the deepest heart. They are obviously under pressure within the coalition. I believe that the obligation to label this problem is too late, and I would like to ask all those who have devoted their attention to this issue to perhaps take part again in the remaining minutes of the debate, which the Commission on Genetic Engineering and the Parliament's Committee of Inquiry adopted during the previous legislative period. Some of the important parliamentarians of the time are no longer here today – Mr Brunner, for example, is sitting in the Styrian country day. But I believe that what was finally adopted by all four parties at the time, all five parties, for good reason, should also be a guideline for this government during the current legislative period and should not be thrown overboard so easily.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8908	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8929	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Mrs Reitsamer has so vehemently advocated a complete label as quickly as possible. Above all, because I still remember what it was like when the Genetic Engineering Act was adopted here in the house, when the Committee on Technology Assessment of the Use of Genetic Technology formulated a report that clearly understood and clear labelling of products unmistakably and clearly provided for. It was no less than the then Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, in the truest sense of the word, has failed the work of this committee of inquiry – and hence also this House – by presenting his draft of the Genetic Engineering Act to the House immediately before this report was voted here in the House, interestingly without taking into account precisely the labelling provisions which were subsequently demanded by Parliament. But if it were to have been recognized at the time, as a government party, to have been falsely obedient to the Minister of State and to have given consent to this law, without accusing the necessary part of the work here in the home as a necessary part, then I would be more positive than to regard it as a bad sign of further action. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schuster, in his speech, too, clearly overlooks the fact that his allegation of the use of genetic engineering in Austria basically eliminates all efforts to make agriculture in Austria a high quality and to make use of this argument as a sales argument on the market. In fact, the honourable Member, with his speech, is talking about all that is supposed to be government policy by Federal Minister Molterer and also the Austrian Commissioner in Brussels, Fischler. I believe that it must be clear on today's question that perhaps for MONSANTO time it is the same money, but for us it means, above all, that we slid into something from which we can no longer come out, because our reputation will then be ruined, because we are unable to make it clear that we are also politically opposed to this technology, for example in the field of agriculture. Mr Schuster. I mean, this is something that is undisputed in the House and that should not have been countercared by your speech – I suppose. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister's statements on Article 16 of the Release Directives, which was addressed today, are missing in so far as it has not been clearly and clearly demanded that new, scientifically secured findings be available in order to make an excuse here. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is clear, for example, in the case law of the ECJ on such health protection issues, that there is, of course, a margin for action open to the national states. Article 16 of the Release Directive also requires only the "rightful reason to assume" that such problems would exist. I'll give you the right to: A quick action would undermine Austria's credibility on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, however, that scientific evidence is not required, and, Mrs Bundesminister, as you have so far been so committed to this matter: He should not be used now to bind himself. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that Article 16 is only a short-term instrument – but you will also need this time, Mrs Bundesminister, to coordinate your regulations with your colleagues in the government. I do not understand, therefore, that if you verbally pass on political pressure to the ministers of your coalition party, you do not go here and say: Yes, according to Article 16, I will argue for a reason to achieve that in Austria we ourselves have the time to put our regulation on the rails and actually vote within the government. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wabl.]] – I thank Mr Wabl for the applause! No one can tell me that it is helpful at European level for us to express differing opinions in a coalition government in Austria, if, on the one hand, the Federal Minister has already made an active progress – as well as the Federal Minister Bartenstein – on the other hand, Farnleitner keeps himself covered and, as I hear, is opposed. That's to be put on the table. If there has already been no uniform opinion in the government – although this issue is simmering before itself – this is now to be discussed and clearly positioned. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I hope that your section will already consider to what extent other legal instruments of EC law could not be used – I am thinking of Article 100a. 4 – to maintain a higher level of protection in Austria in order to meet higher requirements. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Liberals in particular do not suspect that they want to hinder free trade. Not for nothing, however, we have said from the beginning, especially in questions of genetic technology: We want a clear and understandable labelling of these products. I also do not understand the resistance of those who use genetic technology and say: This is a great thing, because we can do things that we could not otherwise do, that increases the quality of the products. – Then why not write it on it? I cannot imagine – and you will surely follow me in this example – that Mercedes is going here and saying: We build very great cars, but if we throw them on the market, then we don't write that that's a Mercedes, then we make it so that they can't be different from other cars if possible, because that might harm us in some way. So if it's something high-quality – which is always claimed – then write it on it. Then this will be a sales argument and nothing else. Mrs. Federal Minister! Therefore, do not hinder genetic technology from asserting exactly this sales argument, nor do you fail to give your fellow governmentman the opportunity to put pressure on him – I do not want to say – that even someone who comes from a chamber, like Mr Farnleitner, can decide within a politically adequate period of time. We should give Mr Farnleitner these three months, which can be given as a maximum in accordance with Article 16 of the Release Directive – then he can find a decision in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need liability rules that meet genetic technology and problems. [[Abg. Wabl: Before, not after!]] Of course, Mr Bartenstein, who has been sent by your group, is also to be taken on board because, so far, all the discussions on the environmental liability law have fallen asleep. The real problems in the environment in general – they must also be put into practice in the field of genetic engineering – are not taken into account by the current liability regime, which needs to be re-regulated and driven forward. It is especially Mr Bartenstein, who has not made any progress so far. Ladies and gentlemen! That is what we demand of him, because the course of events now calls for swift action. If one has not yet been able to find a uniform opinion within the framework of the Federal Government, this must now be done. The first step is to say: We will not import this now because we do not have any labelling regulations yet, we still need time. All that has been addressed by Mr Langthaler, but also by others regarding the problem of allergy, has not been taken out of the air. There are things that have been disputed and only by the occurrence of the cases really occurred. That was also media reading, that's not a secret. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] Mr Leiner! To rely on it is a legitimate reason to believe that health is at risk here. It shall justify the application of Article 16. Mrs. Federal Minister! This justifyes a clear yes to the question raised in the urgent question, and this would give us the opportunity here in the House to send a signal at European level, which is necessary in order to be able to bring this matter to a good conclusion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8987	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9008	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision to be made in this House today is without an example. I have the impression from previous decisions that they are sometimes poorly thought about, reversible and poorly debated, and that they can still be changed. Mrs. Federal Minister! Today's decision is something like a "historical decision". One should not act too often with this term, for what does one do if such a decision is really to be made? Ladies and gentlemen! When you look at the history of genetic technology, you can observe two major currents: on the one hand, scientists who, in the name of science, are trying to increase the knowledge that is enthusiastic and ambitious and often overlooked in whose services they stand. On the other hand, there are those who make money with these scientific results and thus often forget who they are obliged to do. Ladies and gentlemen! The political decision taken here and now and in total on the European continent is: Is there a political counterweight against the lobbyists of genetic technology in the food sector? In America, the struggle is tough, and large corporations naturally try to behave optimally in this game and do not lose in the field of market segments. They try a very clever and variant-rich, tricky game. Even large corporations such as Unilever or Nestlé try to find out where the most powerful player is. And the most powerful player, ladies and gentlemen, in this very risky, politically risky game, I believe, are consumers. This group, Mrs Federal Minister, has decided clearly against food produced from genetic engineering. However, there is still a powerful lobby behind it: farmers, ladies and gentlemen – at least those farmers who have been trying for decades to play a pioneering role in the biological sector, especially in Austria. Mrs. Federal Minister! As Minister for Consumer Protection, you have today had the opportunity to take a political position for consumers, which is clear. What you've demonstrated here is an ordinary political ping pong game with your coalition partner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the usual coalition manner, this is the departure of positions: by blaming the other. Mr Schuster even goes so far as to say here that we can give up these products. Then who needs them in this house? Who wants her in this country? – Now is the question: With what power, with what political commitment is opposed? The lobbyists of MONSANTO and other companies that rely on genetically modified food that farmers need only more than feeders and auxiliary workers, where consumers are only more willing eaters, have decided clearly. These companies want to be on the market at all costs with their products. The decision was made clearly in America. In the 1996 harvest, soybeans are mixed with those which are not produced in a genetic way, in order not to break the front line, that consumers and food producers also make a clear choice for the majority of consumers. You know very well, Mrs Federal Minister, that if no clear steps are taken here and today, it will no longer be possible to distinguish in the future. I am not talking now at all about the animals eating this feed. That's where the farmer can decide. But we do not have a label! And what will happen? – We will no longer be able to distinguish between all the products produced from soya, where soya is genetically produced and where it is not. What to do With bread, food oil, baby food, Mozart balls, soy milk, tofu, margarine, cuts, baking fat, vegetarian spreads, Mayonnaise, Mrs Federal Minister? What's going to be Do you do with all these products? How will you train the consumer to become a powerful citizen? What's this talk, Mrs. Federal Minister? You have today, here and now to decide that you are on the side of the Austrian population and otherwise, Mrs Federal Minister, not on the side of business makers at the expense of health, at the expense of farmers and at the expense of the third world. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller has offered a tactical variant until the time of labelling. Now, suddenly, many are here in the house for complete labelling. Why isn't that yet? I say that this will ultimately not be possible in the field of genetic engineering, but that we will be able to resist it exclusively by adopting a ban on imports. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have failed on this crucial point today, and that is why the Greens are submitting a motion for censure against you. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the sharpest parliamentary instrument in this House. The statements by the SPÖ and the statements by the ÖVP have clearly indicated that no remedy is to be expected in this sector of the Federal Government and the coalition parties. Mrs. Federal Minister! At least in your Prime Minister's responsibility you would have been able to make a clear ban on imports and would have signaled in Europe that a small country could defend itself against the powerful lobbys of the food industry, the genetic engineering of food, the patenting of life. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have told only and alone in a tired, sad talk that has been written in your ministry about areas that are without dispute at all. No one here in this House has ever acquitted that genetic engineering in the medical field can be very useful and useful. But you have failed in the crucial area, the genetic engineering of food and trade and import to Austria. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, here in this House, this woman minister, who obviously does not know which side she has to stand on, to fail to trust.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9114	The motion for a resolution just read has been properly tabled and is supported accordingly. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9138	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Wabl, on behalf of my group, I should like to reject this motion of censure with all my determination. I shall try to explain in detail why the decision taken by the Federal Minister for the immediate, complete and comprehensive labelling of genetically modified food is a correct one. However, this discussion also requires – and I say this clearly here – a very conscious discussion of the policy of the EIA in this area. I wondered what Mr Schuster said. If it considers that genetically modified foods should be banned, it should submit an own-initiative proposal and negotiate this issue in the coalition! On the principle: For me too, genetic technology is a technology of the future that cannot be shut down in principle. I do not think that we can do a black and white painting here either. It is necessary to examine every field of application and in the extreme case of each individual case, such as today the issue of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya. It is to be asked: To whom does it benefit, and what possible impact can there be on health, economics, ecology and consumer policy? For our group, it is only possible to allow genetically modified foods if their safety is guaranteed by strict controls and clear, comprehensive, binding labelling is ensured. And now I come to this political question, which has been dealt with by Mr Petrovic. She meant, Mrs. Krammer doesn't make a policy against the corporations. Ladies and gentlemen! What's this about? – There are two questions: on the one hand, the prohibition philosophy and on the other, the so-called label philosophy, namely: Do we want to prohibit foods that have been genetically modified and have been shown to pose health risks, among other things? I agree with this ban, I say quite clearly. However, if we cannot provide proof of this, then we cannot make a ban, a ban – and I would like to say that as a lawyer in all clarity – which is sustainable for a maximum of three months. The other option is to stand for complete mandatory labelling. This too, ladies and gentlemen, is a policy against the groups, because European consumers, Austrian consumers, will not opt for these products, but for these products. And that, I would like to say quite clearly, is a credible policy: a yes to mandatory labelling. Now on this request of the three opposition parties. – Let us stick to Article 16 of the Release Directive. I do not want to focus more on this, the regulation is clear: If there is a legitimate reason to accept, a genetically modified product may be prohibited under certain conditions. A decision, as it says, is taken within three months of the procedure laid down in Article 21. According to the information provided to me, there is no additional information, contrary to the view of Mr Langthaler, which would not have been examined during the safety review. Therefore – and this must be said clearly –: Such a decision would be repealed within three months by our Federal Minister. Therefore – and this is also the line of the ministry – we advocate an immediate mandatory and very clear marking. A word on Mr Petrovic's comments: Mr Petrovic said that the Federal Government had broken a promise after accession to the EU. At that time it would have been promised – I quote literally – that consumers would benefit from a stricter food label, and that would no longer be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This promise will not be broken. On the contrary: It is now realized by the initiative of the Federal Minister Dr. Krammer. However, it is necessary – and I say this to the EIA with all the clarity – that these two regulations will be signed as soon as possible. That is, Mr Bartenstein and Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister, are invited to make this decision so that Austrian consumers can make a decision against this imported genetically modified soya. Why do we think the label is so necessary? – I can inform you about the latest survey. More and more people are calling for a clear labelling of the gentech food: almost 100 percent of Swisss are for it, 95 percent of Germans and 94 percent of Austrians in 1995. The May 1996 study shows an increase in this area. In 1996, 97 percent of Austrians already called for a clear label. This clearly supports the policy of the Federal Minister – and I can say that here too. I do not want to address the whole problem of the novel food regulation, but I would nevertheless like to say one thing very clearly: We believe that it is a matter of maximum safety for all genetic engineering products – and, on the other hand, transparency. From our point of view, it is more than just a tight, legally required label somewhere on the product or label. Transparency, as we understand it, means free access to all the information that could be important for interested consumers to decide whether they want to buy a product or not. Only this marking and this transparency ensure the right to a free, sovereign decision. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And now I come back to the ÖVP and have to say with all clarity: Unfortunately, Mr Schuster, this clear line has not been supported by the ÖVP parliamentarians in the European Parliament, alongside other points. Unfortunately, the line between the Social Democrats and the Greens in the European Parliament could not get the necessary majority for this. For example, the ÖVP voted against a liability for the producers of novel food in case of any consequential damage. It voted against the ban on calling genetically modified products ecologically and so on. I am also aware of the letter from the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family, in which he is very clearly opposed to a national regulation. However, I am also aware of the statement made by the head of state in Salzburg, from that federal country from which I come, which is openly opposed to the ÖVP Party line and whose position is very clear with that of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs. – And then I read again: It's blocked by Farnleitner. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! After your club, you spoke of a "Turbo". In this gear, however, not only must sand have come, but there must have been a rock-broking in it. I can very clearly invite you from the EIA to make no policy against 97 percent of the population. Therefore: Do you convince your ministers that they agree with the two draft regulations of the Federal Minister Dr. Krammer? I can also make a personal comment here – I am not long in Parliament –: I personally expect the two EIA ministers to sign these two regulations. If these two regulations are not signed and there is no mandatory marking, I will personally, alongside other members of our group, rethink my position on a request under Article 16 of the Release Directive.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9240	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. The speaking time is set to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9262	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to Mr Maier, I really do not understand the world anymore. He could have fulfilled these demands which he has made here for a long time, not later than last Thursday, at the meeting of the Committee on Health. He would only have had to agree to the opposition's requests, six in the number, then we could have saved the whole debate here. It has been a question of introducing a labelling obligation, and the further request of the liberals has also dealt with the liability regime. However, the liability has not yet been mentioned. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I really think that today's urgent request by the Greens is justified. Considering the genetic engineering overview of recent years, it can be seen that from October 1991 to the end of 1995, 512 applications for the release of genetically modified organisms in the EU Member States have already been submitted. In the first half of 1996, only 200 applications were submitted in the EU. You can see that such food produced will increase to a degree so that we will probably do easier in the future if we identify those foods on the shelves that are not yet genetically modified, which would be a much lower bureaucratic effort – except for us now. We are called on to make a responsible policy, and Mrs Krammer, in particular, has been called upon to do so. But she's always just talking about it. It makes press records, it explains to all of us and, above all, to the public the importance of the full labelling obligation and the speed of its introduction. Mrs Reitsamer Your side, putting the blame on the ÖVP by saying until 31. December the SPÖ wants to have done this, but the "evil" ÖVP, the coalition partner with whom she, yes, the whole SPÖ fraction, is in one bed, is putting it back on February. – The citizens have nothing of that. The SPÖ wants it until 31. December, the ÖVP by the end of February 1997, but the citizens in Austria want it now and immediately – and we liberals too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's where we're on the side of the citizens. We are not just talking about this, but we have made proposals in this regard years ago. We have already expressed our views on this at the Committee of Inquiry, which took place in 1992 – just as the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ did at the time. There was Mr Reitsamer, there was Mr Feurstein, where Mr Guggenberger was there: They all voted for it at the time. At the time, there was a unanimous decision in the Committee of Inquiry on Food Labelling. But now no one wants to hear from you anymore. Four years later, no one knows anything about it anymore. Move Now You're going to blame each other. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We discussed the consumer report on Thursday in the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs, and there has not even been any mention of the interests of consumers in relation to the consumption of genetically modified food. If 94 percent of Austrians oppose such foods, they should at least have the right to decide for themselves whether to take a food from the shelves, which is genetically modified or not. Whoever wants to take it should then take it if it is clearly marked. But if you do not want to take it, it must also be recognizable for him and therefore marked whether a food is genetically modified. This is a minimum requirement, something that is for our citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have been asked to do so as soon as possible. You also have Question Time in the National Council on 20 November. In September, you said that you are in favour of the labelling requirement, not only of food, but also of seed and feed. – I don't hear anything about it today. I'll deal with the arrest regulations another time. In any event, I criticise the fact that in the Committee on Health, Public Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, a member of the SPÖ literally said that the six applications were to be examined because of their significant importance, but in the next sentence, every debate would be held in this regard by making the request for a postponement of all six applications. So this topic was from the table. They didn't want to talk about it. Just as little did you, Mrs. Federal Minister, want to talk about the willingness to call the doctors. You don't want to talk about a lot of things at all, and when you're talking, there's usually nothing going on. I therefore support, as a liberal Member of Parliament and as the chairman of the Committee on Health, but not in this function, the motion of censure of the Greens, not only because of the genetic engineering disaster, but above all because, Mrs Federal Minister, you show a lack of willingness to talk with the countries, with their coalition partners and with all those who are concerned with health care, because you make unrealistic proposals, such as the closure of small hospitals, without replacement possibilities, and, last but not least, because you have made yourself so strong for the reputation and want to withdraw specialists from the hospitals during the night hours and put our patients at great risk. We therefore support this motion of censure by the Greens and hope that a better minister or a better minister of health will be your successor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9335	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9356	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In fact, we are seeing a major change in the food sector. It is unclear whether genetically engineered soybeans have no influence on the human body. It is unclear whether the intestinal passage causes a joy of mutation. It is unclear whether the cultivation of these foods causes a change in nature or biodiversity. It's unclear who's supposed to take over liability. It's unclear where these are even indictable. It is unclear whether fewer herbicides and pesticides are used or even more. It is unclear, unclear – this list is infinite. A thick fog floats over the genetic technology in the food sector. I am not opposed to genetic technology in principle. Insulin, blood components, anti-tumour and some other products in the medical and diagnostic field are a blessing for the affected patients because they are much safer products. Genetic manipulation is not necessarily a modification of the protein structure, and therefore it is probably not always necessarily combined with an increase in allergy frequency. But: This gene-manipulated soya is neither an improvement in quality nor a bottleneck to be bridged. We don't need him in Europe. Whoever does not claim a label for the citizen, actually betrays the citizens of our country, who betrays the consumer because the consumer can no longer choose whether he or she wants to eat manipulated food by genetic engineering. I believe in the future of genetic technology only if it can be classified as safe. This could, however, solve the problem of global nutrition. In the Philippines, rice varieties with a larger grain size are now grown, which survive under more adverse circumstances. I believe that this is a really interesting area for the future, but it is still too unforgivable. In the EU, I was there when the Novel Food Regulation was adopted in the European Parliament or assigned to the Conciliation Committee. When voting in the European Parliament, the difference was that the SPE proposals were the more advanced ones and that the EPP colleagues actually voted only in favour of marking significantly modified foods. That is why this division was created, so to speak, so that this regulation was allocated to the Conciliation Committee. The fact is that the Novel Food Regulation did not enter into force in good time. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I really did not know is that in Austria we seem to have two governments. The one side is the socialists. They say that the black ministers are actually responsible. The black ministers, in turn, say that the Social Democrats are responsible. I don't know about it anymore: Do we have a government now – or do we have two governments? Perhaps it would be time for the government to make a uniform statement in the relationship that we should achieve a comprehensive label in Austria. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I would recommend that you take advantage of this Article 16 of the Release Directive 90/220 EEC. It gives you the opportunity to protect the Austrian population even if the EU is sparse, that is the principle of subsidiarity that is being applied there. Therefore, I think it is justified if you make use of it now. In my opinion, this has nothing to do with courage, but it has to do with exploiting your rights that the EU gives you. Therefore subsidiarity is an important principle for liberals, and this is therefore applicable in this case too. In conclusion: I hope that Austria will never become a genetic engineering-free zone. Research and medical applications must always be possible. However, I believe that a comprehensive label must be required for consumers. This is possible for you, Mrs. Minister. Take advantage of your chance! You will see that you will not be charged by the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9408	The next speaker is Mrs Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9429	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My predecessor, at the end of her speech, recommended that you, Mrs Federal Minister, make use of Article 16 of the Release Directive. I say: I do not recommend it to you, but I have actually expected you to do so after all your announcements. My colleague, Mr Petrovic, pointed out that it has not been so long since you have clearly declared here in the House: They will not allow this soybean to come to the European market if it is not marked. Now you are required, now is the time when you can redeem your word that you gave at the time – but now you are kneading and pressing. As I said, I expected you to do that. It would have been a unique opportunity, as has often been pointed out here, to show backbone exactly when it becomes tricky, because you would certainly have been under pressure by the companies behind it. But They could also have demonstrated the value of the word of an Austrian minister and what is worth the word of a Social Democratic Minister, especially – and this is not so insignificant after the EU election. One thing I must say to you, Mrs Federal Minister, and also to your colleagues from your group: Do not wonder – this is a piece of politics – that if you constantly look beyond the clearly declared needs of the majority of the population and then do not respond if it is required – for example, if you make a request in a committee, delay, do not treat – you lose the last rest of confidence. This is not only the result of a survey, but it is confirmed again and again: Not only in Austria, but also in other European countries, the vast majority of the population clearly support a product declaration, a labelling of genetically engineered foods, and still says that it would not buy such food. This seems to be the real threat to the American corporations concerned, namely that there is a vast majority in the European market, which says: If the product is marked and clearly recognizable that it is a genetically engineered product, then I do not buy this product, but then I take another product, one that is not genetically engineered. Mrs. Minister! It is a tired excuse – I must tell you – to say that you cannot use this article because no new scientific facts are on the table. That's not true! There's a list that you know as well as I do. I am only telling you in keywords because the time is not enough to explain this in detail. But you know that, and you know it. It is not true that the soybean roundup has been evaluated for glycosate application. The potential for allergy has not been adequately verified. The potential for damage in the southern EU Member States has not been fully assessed. Only a fact of that should suffice for it and move you to make use of this article 16. It is a tired excuse if you say here in your reply that you see no reason to do so because the new scientific facts have not been available since admission at European Union level. – That’s just not true! This ping pong game between the two government parties, which we have now experienced in the last two hours, has been a special class political witness to poverty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you were to take your political responsibility quite seriously, you would spare yourself that you were to put the blame here, who actually wanted or didn't want anything or would sign this regulation. The fact is: The regulation will not help us in four weeks, it will not help us at the end of December, at the end of this year, it will not help us next year, but we would have needed a regulation now, we would have needed to deal with the proposals in the Committee on Budgets. But you didn't let that happen, that's what you delayed. It is then the only way to meet the clear will of consumers in good time to show political strength and courage. It is a political decision, Mrs Minister, that it is not a decision you must make now and here in this situation because of the fact that is known by the way. It is only a political decision. – If your Minister cannot, please do so, ladies and gentlemen, here in the House! Again: If a vast majority, if they say to the 90 percent of consumers that they want this labelling requirement and they wouldn't buy genetically engineered foods, I wonder what we're still discussing it for. The thing is clear! Then you can only agree to this motion for a resolution by the opposition parties and say that it is to be used by this Article 16 instead of kneading it. Mrs. Minister! If you don't think about it in the next ten minutes, then this mistrust, which is really a hard and certainly rare means, is a justified means in this case, because they obviously didn't understand when the hour is there to decide something politically, and when to set which priorities.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9498	Next come Mrs Anna Huber's speech. The speaking time is set to 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9523	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kammerlander concluded: Your contribution to the debate is as follows: What are we talking about when 94 percent of consumers want a more stringent label? Its conclusion was then: That is why we want an import ban. It is clear from this that this debate is obviously extremely emotional, and I sometimes miss the sight of what is really feasible and meaningful. For if there is talk of an import ban on genetically engineered soya products, as an Austrian consumer protectionist, I can only represent this requirement, completely and sustainable, and also support it – but with the addition that there must then be a pan-European import ban, because doing something on its own sounds pretty, and that also brings positive headlines to the claimants, such as the initiative of Minister Bartenstein, who has announced this very full-fledged but has already been pruned back by the Minister for Economic Affairs, but shows that this is very difficult. Why this ban on imports in accordance with Article 16 of the Release Directive is not possible has already been debated in this debate. But now to the colleagues from the EIA, who are referring here to the Conciliation Committee in Brussels, where better and sharper, a complete labelling of genetically modified food is needed. That's what I'm asking myself: Do we not really owe this to the EIA colleagues in the European Parliament, who have spoken against hard and comprehensive labelling? There is now a real need for action, because there is a danger that soy will soon come into the Austrian shelves. That is why it is about acting now, and the Minister has acted. Now I'm actually wondering: But where are the actions of the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs? That's not a game, it's not a ping pong game, it's a question of competence. It is now a matter of acting – and not waiting until perhaps in Brussels there is a satisfactory solution for us, that is, for Austrian consumers. By then – and there is a time gap, and that is probably undisputed – we need security for Austrian consumers, and the Socialist Group stands behind it a hundred percent. Any consumer who puts such a soy-packer into his chariot must know what soya is: [[the speaker holds up a sackerl of soybeans]] Is it one that has been created in Marchfeld, or is it one that is made in the USA and may have already been genetically manipulated by it. You can't see and recognize that. Because 94 percent of consumers do not want to eat genetically modified foods, but these foods are on the market, they must be – and that is quite logical and clear – marked. I am convinced that these 94% of consumers will then act, in that they will not buy these foods and will thus disappear from our shelves genetically modified products. I also think Mr Barmüller's opinion is extremely important, and I am therefore looking forward to the hopefully less emotional and objective discussion in the Health Committee when it comes to product liability and product liability regulations. We have found that we need this complete marking immediately, and the regulation has already been signed by the Minister of Agriculture. I really wonder where this motion of censure is headed. I think either empty or wrong side. The scheme could enter into force immediately with the signatures of the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs. This would be a sign here in Austria, on the one hand a sign for the negotiators in Brussels, that our demands for the complete labelling of genetically modified products must be taken seriously, and on the other hand for Austrian consumers, for those 94 percent who want to be sure in the future that genetically modified products can only be placed on the Austrian shelves if they are marked as such. I therefore call on the EIA to work for the immediate entry into force of the regulation which guarantees the safe, clear and clear labelling of genetically modified foods, and only two signatures, namely those of the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs, are missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9583	The next speaker is Mr Amon. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9604	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that the debate on this urgent question is very important, especially since this issue is of course very interesting to many Austrians. However, I believe that this debate must also be conducted very carefully, because there are fears, partly justified, but partly unfounded fears, particularly in connection with genetically modified products. I think it is wrong to play with fears and to act here on the piano of fear-making, because it produces nervousness and excitement which is really not necessary. The debate is also marked by a certain hypocrisy, which must already be said, especially if liberal mandates go down here and categorically reject everything. And then, in this book of the "Freedom of Agricultural Policy" you will find a three-stage model for the financial allocation of farmers and read that the liberals want a grant in the absence of nitrogen fertilizers, a grant in the absence of chemical plant protection products and weed control products and, thirdly, a charge of competitive disadvantages due to small farmers. There is the renunciation of hormones and genetic engineering. - So far, so good. So that means, in your opinion, a grant is justified if someone does not use genetic engineering. However, say You're going to have a paragraph. Of course, participation in the environmental programme should be voluntary. That is, you allow all these things, you want these things, but you ask if someone voluntarily fails to give up. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] And this is a double morale that is certainly to be rejected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the Austrian People's Party believe that the consumer has a right to know which product he consumes, that the consumer should actually get the product he wants. Therefore, an explicit yes for the labelling of modified and modified products related to genetic engineering. In this context, I would like to point out that we will reject the motion for a resolution against the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. In connection with § 16 it has outlined the legal situation – and nothing is added to it. But I believe that this debate must be continued, in the sense that not only consumers have a very low interest in genetically modified products, but also producers and the trade chains are quite skeptical about this matter, because they cannot be interested in the fact that consumers do not buy their products. If, for example, Unilever and Nestle announce that they want to refrain from such modified products, if the three largest Austrian trade chains say on their own that they want to protect their consumers from such products, then, I believe, one can clearly see here in what direction we are going, namely in a quite right way. Mrs. Federal Minister! On the other hand, however, there is certainly a need for an act of strength, a European act of force, because the'schrebergarten-politik' must end! That is also confirmed by Mr Wabl's statement when he asks whether we really believe that a complete label can be imaginable. – Yes, do you believe that it would really be possible to ensure a complete Austrian import ban? This can only be solved at European level. And for that, the government must be fully committed and fully involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thanks also to Federal Minister Bartenstein, who commissioned the Umweltbundesamt with an investigation. The results of this study and the studies of the Ministry of Health are certainly still waiting to take further steps if the results are so. But I warn very much, especially in view of the delicate matter, of a panic! We live thank God in a country where we have very good products – and not in a genetically modified "Jurassic Park".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9677	Mrs Aumayr has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9698	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Mr Amon, you have done a bear service to your group today. How can you be pushed in by Mr Schwarzenberger? You have spoken of something that you do not know at all! Such a thing is really dangerous, I must tell you quite honestly. As long as there is no explicit ban on the use of genetic engineering in agriculture, Mr Amon, there is no such ban! – as long as a remission can only be voluntary. You can't deny it before! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There is a hormone ban!]] Mr Amon! The top agricultural official in Austria, a Mr. Astl – but you do not know these rulers – was once the head of the AMA, now he is in an important position in the PREAKO. It is very clear and opted for genetic engineering in agriculture. And please ask, Mr Amon, how Mr Schwarzböck stands on genetic engineering in agriculture or Mr Schwarzenberger. These gentlemen are hiding themselves all the time! I would also like to ask you, Mr Amon: Why has your Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats voted against a strict label? I mean, it's not going to be any more doubling at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This debate is proof that since accession to the European Union, the Austrian Federal Government has been absolutely unable to meet the demand of almost 100 percent of the population. ==References== This possibility was given up on June with the accession to the European Union. The Austrian consumers do not want a label, as has been the case so far. There are small numbers printed on a product that no human can read without glasses. If so, they wish for a label, which clearly and clearly shows that it is genetically modified foods. The Austrian population wishes for a ban on genetic engineering in relation to food, and you simply cannot follow this desire. It is now relatively little to introduce a label in Austria, because we are already supplied with products from animals already fed by the free market worldwide, to which this gene soy bean has already been fed. This means that you should also prohibit the import of meat and sausage from the European Union and from the reform states. To what extent the groups already determine the quality of the food or the seeds, Mrs Minister, that is really terrifying. Large corporations such as Pioneer, chemical companies such as Ciba Geigy present and sell the seed right now. Today, a farmer can no longer produce and sell his seed, local varieties, and so on. This is forbidden because only seed which has previously been approved by the Seed Commission may be offered. This approval costs hundreds of thousands of schilling, i.e. the companies already have the full power in this point. It must be clear to you: They have given up the possibility of protecting the Austrian population from genetically modified food by accession to the European Union. The Minister is fully aware of the legal basis of the Maastricht Treaty, which must be clear to you, and you are all in favour of it. So don't say goodbye to the responsibility now! They are ultimately responsible for the insecurity of the Austrian population and the credibility of politicians is severely damaged!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9754	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9775	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request from the Greens shows that it does not solve problems by simply ignoring them. For years we should have had an honest discussion about biotechnology, genetic engineering and genetic engineering. Science and research should have provided the facts, and policy would have had the task of informing the population and making the necessary legal adjustments. It is precisely this honest discussion, ladies and gentlemen, about the benefits, but also about the risks of genetic engineering, that has been missed. There are many areas, especially in medicine, where genetic engineering is no longer to be thought away from our lives, and has become just too vital, such as insulin production. Formerly, only about 500 grams of insulin were produced from pancreass of approximately 100,000 carcases, in very different quality and with very different efficiency. Today, this insulin is produced in the necessary sufficient amount of genetic engineering in the gene laboratory, in the highest purity and highest quality. It is similar with the hormone EPO, which is necessary for the formation of red blood cells. Here, too, thousands of gallons of human urine were needed to produce a few thousandths of grams of this hormone. Today, this hormone is produced in the required amount from genetically modified mouse cells. Ladies and gentlemen! So, as I have pointed out here, there are areas, especially in medicine, where genetic engineering certainly has its meaning and where two thirds of the population accept this, yes, even welcome. For example, about two thirds of the population are expected to improve by genetic engineering in the field of medicine, especially in the field of drug production; over 100 drugs are already produced genetically. The population is also expecting progress in areas of diagnostics, such as HIV testing, which has only made early detection of AIDS possible. But also in the fight against cancer, and especially in the field of transplant medicine, there will be substantial changes and the solution of many problems by genetic research. So while genetic research in the field of medicine is quite out of dispute and is also considered necessary, it is often rejected in the field of food production. Surveys conducted by the Opinion Research Institute ÖKONSULT have shown that around 80 percent of Austrians do not want to buy or eat genetically modified food. More than two-thirds of the population want this area to be genetically-free in Austria and advocate a referendum on this issue – similar to Zwentendorf. Ladies and gentlemen! This survey also showed that the reason for the distrust of the population vis-à-vis genetic engineering lies in an extreme information deficit. Almost three quarters of the respondents feel inadequately informed about genetic engineering and the consequences of this genetic engineering by scientists and politicians. And that's exactly what you've been missing for years, Mrs. Federal Minister. You also admit it indirectly if you say that you want to launch a large information campaign. But this campaign is too late in the present case. The announcement of the two regulations is also too late in the present case. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! They have obviously been held by the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs. It is also too late for Mrs Reitsamer to understand that she is now saying: If it had known that it was merely a delaying tactic, it would not have agreed to postponeing this problem in the Committee on Health. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of genetic engineering in food and food production is to improve quality rather than reduce production costs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9820	Please pay attention to the speaking time! It is a voluntary time limit. You can continue to speak, I just wanted to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9836	Thank you, Mr President. – The aim is therefore to reduce production costs, to simplify production and thus to make industrial production possible or to create new products – partly even with inferior products. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals confess to a healthy and close-to-natural food production, to the biologicalization of our agriculture. I therefore call on you to stop this profit-oriented development in the field of genetic engineering, particularly in the food and feed sectors. Mrs. Federal Minister! Penalties You are the lies that lead you to weak decision-making here, and issue an import ban on these genetically engineered products, for this genetically engineered soy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I also call on the SPÖ to strengthen her Federal Minister and to agree to the motion for a resolution of the opposition parties. It can't be, ladies and gentlemen, that the motto here is: If one cannot scientifically or yet prove that something is dangerous, it is considered to be harmless – and this, although there are serious concerns about it and experts believe that there is a risk to the population and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, decision-making and ignorance become a security risk. In particular, we want to know exactly which Members or Members of the Austrians, whom he would have to represent and protect, will pose such a safety risk. We therefore make the following request: The members of the FPÖ Parliamentary Club and the Green Club call for a national vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic, Mr Langthaler, Mr Motter, Mr Salzl, Mr Freundes in respect of measures pursuant to Art. 16 of the Release Directive 90/220/EEC. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you support this request, which was tabled here by the opposition parties – to the protection of the Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9905	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9926	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. Salzl has rightly referred to the fact that genetic engineering is beneficial in medicine. In the food industry, on the other hand, there is rightly widespread concern about the use of genetically modified products. That is why the powerful consumer must be able to decide freely – and it can only do so if it is marked. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now say something to the European Parliament and to the European Council because so much injustice has been spread here from the speaker's desk. The Minister for Health has rightly pointed out that Austria, Germany, Sweden and Denmark have remained in the Council in voting on labelling in the minority. The majority in the Council decided that only significantly modified foods should be identified. [[Abg. May. Main: That's the pigry!]] If, as the Freedom Party has always wished and represented, we had entered the EU before Maastricht, then this Council decision would have been final and we would have had no more opportunity to do something about it internally – we would have been bound. But we have come to Maastricht, and since the conclusion of the Maastricht Treaty, there has been a completely equal position of the European Parliament. However, because there is such an equal position, it was possible for the European Parliament to stop this decision from being taken by the Council. – That’s the truth! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, it required the qualified majority of at least 314 votes, otherwise the Council's opinion would have become law. The European People's Party has now tabled seven proposals, the most important amendment of which stated that the word "significant" should be deleted. So not only those genetically modified products that have changed significantly are to be declared, but all that has been shown to have been genetically modified is to be declared. That's the crucial difference. And for this proposal and the other six relating to additives et cetera, there were far more than 314 votes, which would not have been possible, the Socialist Group, the Liberal Group and other political groups would not have voted in favour of these EPP amendments. This has been very crucial in the European Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it has been said here that socialist applications have been rejected, that is not quite the case. They were not rejected, but they did not find the majority of 314 votes. But what were those applications? – For example, there were 120 amendments from a German Social Democratic Party: a huge bureaucracy! It couldn't go through. The other applications were, however, a common component. . I am pleased that the Minister for Health has stated here that she fully supports this attitude of the European Parliament, including in the Council, as it has now been decided by the European Parliament. Now there are only two options: Either the Council accepts this opinion from the European Parliament, then all proven genetically modified products are to be identified, or it does not accept them – then it is free for the individual countries to make their own rules. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And where you can't prove it?]] If it's just claimed, then don't! I'm telling you quite honestly: It is a strong piece if a motion of censure against Mrs Minister is based on the fact that the Greens simply claim that they have sufficient reason to believe that there is a risk to health and the environment, and that is why the Minister is, as it were, "appropriate" because she does not express any prohibition under this provision. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier rightly pointed out: After this examination, there is nothing we can put on the table again, which would not have been tested. It is also necessary to show a certain degree of seriosity. For these reasons, to file a motion of censure is simply unscrupulous and purely provocative! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This case shows how important it will be for the European Parliament to be fully involved in the other issues in which it does not yet have full competence. That's what we're supposed to do! With regard to labelling, I can promise you that our colleague Rübig and, as I believe, Mrs Graenitz will also ensure that the European Parliament does not give in and that this enormous restriction is removed, that only significantly modified products must be marked.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10003	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Dr. Petrovic, Motter, Dr. Salzl and comrades concerning measures in accordance with Art. 16 of the Release Directives. I would like to see a natural vote carried out in accordance with § 66 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, and I shall therefore proceed in this way. We discussed the problems encountered during the last na tional vote at the President-in-Office's Conference, and we agreed to set a mode of voting for the name. That is why the Members' vote is taken from the Chamber's seat. The votes shall be asked to rise from the place for the purposes of the notification of the voting behaviour after the name call and to reply clearly exclusively with "Yes" or "No". Abstention of votes is not permitted. The President-in-Office of the Council will, by repeating the name of the voting Member and by reproducing his voting behaviour, provide additional clarity on voting behaviour. If a Member is not present, which logically results in his being unable to vote, the chairman shall expressly determine this. The presidents of the club will ensure disciplined behaviour in your political groups. This is also set out in the President's Protocol. We are therefore voting in such a way that, on behalf of my group, I would ask the individual Members to express their votes. Those who agree to the request by Petrovic, Motter, Salzl and Comrades will declare with "Yes" their voting behaviour, who vote against the motion Petrovic, Motter, Salzl and Comrades will reply with "No". In this sense, I'm starting with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10065	The vote will end. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10095	I'll start the interrupted session again. I would ask you to take the seats because we still have a vote. I announce the results of the vote as follows: valid votes cast 163, of which "Yes" votes 50, "No" votes 113. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stoneographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour: With "Yes", the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck, aumayr; Barmüller, Blünegger, Böhacker; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Graf, Gredler; Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haselsteiner, Haupt, Hofmann; Kammerlander, Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter; Nut trees; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner, Trenk; Wabl, Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gradwohl, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer; Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Chapel, Kampichler, Karlsson, merchant, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, King, Head, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, smoke-callat, riding, heron, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10271	We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection under Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. Such a decision by the National Council requires a special quota, namely the presence of at least half of the members of the National Council. I note that this quota is given. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support Mr Wabl's motion for a censure to rise from the seats. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. That is what we have done in this debate and in the vote. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10314	The next step is to carry out the short debate required. It concerns the request made by Mr Mag. Mr Peter, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Peter and comrades concerning a federal law on the pursuit of commercial activities until 31. This is the first time we've seen it in the European Union. After the end of this debate, the vote will be taken on the motion for a time limit. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. In this debate, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker will be given a speech time of 10 minutes for reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government should also not exceed 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter, for – as has just been said – a speaking time of 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10343	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Long, it's been a long time! ==References== January 1996, in the deep winter, the Liberals have submitted a request for a recasting of a commercial law to replace the old trade order. It was the application number 14 during this legislative period. ==References== There was nothing happening in January 1996. The proposal rests deeply and firmly in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The industrial order, the admission to entrepreneurship, is also an essential area of employment policy in Austria, which we have devoted today to the current hour. Only freer, easier access to commerce, self-employment can provide a way out of unemployment. In Austria we have a sum of obstacles on our way to independence, one of the largest is the trade order. We Liberals have made the effort to introduce a completely new commercial law into the committee to discuss it. Parliament has so far refused to discuss this. The chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, is among us, she knows of this request, she has followed the first reading, she has heard our call for a subcommittee to deal with this request. Nothing like that has happened so far! Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot allow this important question to be dealt with and debated in the same way as the question of shop closure. What we've experienced in the last few days is bizarre, ridiculous: 60 hours, 66 hours – all in the pre-parliamentary room! It is still Parliament, it is still this House that is discussing in its Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and then in its plenary session how the legal framework of the shop closure in Austria is to be. The same applies to the rules of commerce. Only: The committees of the House did not meet. Requests for opposition lie there, lie there and are not treated. Is this your idea of parliamentary democracy, Madam President? Is this your idea of how you deal with requests from your colleagues in the committee? The Committee simply does not meet. The subject will not be put on the agenda. The proposal to convene a subcommittee shall not be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the real political scandal we are talking about here! This isn't just happening in the one case. This happened with the school-time law until it was too late to repair the semester holidays for 1997. In the final debate the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has not yet made a statement. He will then meet sometime when one may or may not have agreed in the pre-parliamentary room. Is this Parliament really just a decision-making body in the process of sanctioning what the social partners have already done? And then the government sells the whole thing. Is that the idea of how we... [[Call for the call.]] Well, it's easier, she doesn't have to listen. It would hurt her. But at least she doesn't go out. That's an advantage. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the real problem that this Parliament must discuss in its own understanding. There is obviously no request for a reasonable action to be taken by the opposition parties here, so well-founded that they cannot be so objectively prepared that Mrs President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is prepared to convene the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and to have this matter discussed and the proposals made by the other parties. Dr. Heindl of the Social Democrats has made a proposal, there are proposals from the Austrian People's Party, the liberals have expressed themselves on this issue. This is to be put into a subcommittee, and the negotiations have to begin where they belong, namely to the Parliament, to the House. I can promise you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, and Madam President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: From now on you will receive from us every month in this Parliament's part-session a deadline proposal - the next time without debate - for so long as you hold it worth doing what your parliamentary duty is, namely to take seriously, read through and deal with requests you have in a committee. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Much was discussed on the subject of trade regulations. All except a few experts now agree that the current trade order is unsustainable. It is unsustainable, and the Federal Minister has gratefully expressed himself in this direction and made proposals on how we can achieve a liberalisation of the trade order. It is in the nature of the matter, Mr Federal Minister, that from our liberal position your proposals are too limited. But it is precisely this advice, Mr Federal Minister, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is here. This is precisely the instrument of a subcommittee. Just block large-scale coalitions, that's a little biterl. It's a bit of a little bit to believe: We make that up in the extra-parliamentary space, and then we call – husch, husch! — the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Then it's going to be – g'deviation, g'deviation! – blessed and finally comes to plenary. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is the kind of legislation that this Federal Government has applied in a similar way to the consolidation programme, the savings package and the structural improvement law. 98 legislative instruments on a string here to decide to strike through 98 legislative instruments in a committee, without any willingness to discuss: This is not a parliamentarianism, that is the neocooperatism of Austrian style! This is the way in which we deal with parliamentary democracy, and the ladies and gentlemen of the government groups are playing the game. You drive over them as much as you pass over us! Madam President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I urge you to call on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to depart from the bad habit, to set up a subcommittee and really to negotiate the trade regulations where the subject belongs, namely to Parliament, because this is still the legislative body. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore propose that the House should hold this request until 31 December. ==References====External links== This is a little less than half a year, but time is enough to negotiate seriously where negotiations should be held, namely in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10433	The speaking time of the other Members of the House who are taking the floor is 5 minutes. The next one on the list is colleague Dr. Heindl. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10458	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Peter, I understand your trouble. I too would like to see the reform of the trade regulations already decided. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Only: If we really want to create a large plant, we must also hear the views of the countries – and we must say that the business regulation is also about the whole of the plant law. [[Call the ÖVP: A century work!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Half year!]] You know that the first part of the entire reform package has been reviewed by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. In the next few days, I hope that the first opinions will be received. Then comes the second part or, if you want so, the first part, the actual business order. If we have all the opinions, then this will be discussed in detail, I promise you, because we are also interested in it – I said this in x debates and repeat it – to reach a broad consensus, but also a good law. But since there are many materials in here – you know exactly, the whole plant law is much wider and much more problematic than access to the industry alone, as important as this point is – it has a deadline until 31. ==References== ==References====External links== We've set a deadline for ourselves. We want it to be with 1. In July this whole conflict of law came into force, but before that ordinary deliberations took place. For this we will need at least two or three months in spring. We therefore reject a deadline. First of all, we want to get the opinions of the countries, and then we will have extensive advice on this and hopefully take decisions on it unanimously. No deadline until 31. March! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10509	The next speaker is Mr Drunkl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10531	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter is to be approved: Only entrepreneurs create jobs, and we must shape the framework conditions in such a way that entrepreneurs can do something again. And in doing so, the trade regulations certainly play an important role. Whether it is the most important instrument for making the framework more economic-friendly, I am putting it down today. We all know here in the Chamber or here in the House that this matter has been working intensively for months. And the goal is to create a future-oriented commercial law that will enable us to overcome the challenges of the future. We therefore welcome the way the Federal Minister has gone, namely the right of establishment, which is often the biggest obstacle to the establishment of a company, to negotiate, to assess and, as he has promised, to forward to Parliament as a government template this year. If you have studied the government plan on plant law, you can see that this is the right way. It brings administrative simplifications, red tape reduction, extension of the simplified procedure. We can therefore very well facilitate access to entrepreneurship by means of improved plant law. We know that in many bodies – you know, Mr Peter, just as we all know – already about the second part of the trade order – the trade regulation itself, the regulation of access to commerce is very, very intensively negotiated. I must agree with my previous speaker: This is a very complex matter, and there is nothing in the husch-fusch process. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: How much time do you want to spend?]] I must wonder about one thing: If I remember correctly, it was just the opposition, you were just from the Liberal Forum who, in connection with the adoption of the budget here in 1996/97, spoke of a Husch-Puff action. It was too much for you to study and read the documents. Therefore, please give the responsible authorities in this Republic the opportunity to negotiate and thoroughly prepare such important matter! [[Abg. May. Peter: In Parliament! Where it belongs!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How long?]] Mr Peter and Mr Haigermoser. In Parliament, we cannot negotiate a matter until there is a serious proposal. [[Abg. May. Peter: Go, please!]] Please apologise if I take the view that the Liberal proposal is not a serious proposal in our sense. We have already made this clear during the first reading. Our way is different. In the matter itself, the principle still applies to us: Renovate and don't demolish! For the procedure, please let me hold: do not negotiate Husch-Puch-Actions, determined and result-oriented and, if possible, lead to a broad consensus! In this situation, in which so much preparation has already been made, in which the Minister of Economic Affairs has a commitment to bring to Parliament a government proposal this year, both as regards the right of establishment, but also as regards access to trade, and to negotiate quickly, I believe that the proposal for a time limit is being empty. It runs, in part, the development of plant law. [[Abg. May. Peter: What follows, you have to explain that to me!]] You will therefore understand that we cannot give your request the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10621	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10643	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Pre-holded: We will be happy to accept this proposal for a time limit, because, like Peter, we believe that the reform of the trade order is an infinite story. And this excuse, Mr Drinkl, has to be negotiated qualityly now, is simply not true in the form, because the citizens and those who want to make themselves independent have been held for decades. It is not time to address the contents of the Liberal proposal now. We will meet – I hope at least – in a subcommittee. We liberals have also tabled an appropriate proposal, which, I believe, is a suitable basis for a modern reform of the current trade regulation. But it's very interesting to look at the moral image, which is about the "reform" – under quotation marks – of the trade order: There's a lot of secret papers being sent back and forth in the Chamber of Commerce, and there's a couple of shanks in it. In this case, even the Chamber of Commerce is misused in order to carry out the business of the Federal Republic of Germany. This is very interesting for this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. In a letter from the Bundesinnungsgruppe, Section for Commerce and Crafts, of 11 June. October 1996 – on the official paper of the Chamber of Commerce! – it says: "In the light of the meeting of the Federal Board of Directors of the Austrian Economic Federation, the accompanying request for an opinion is to be seen." You hear and marvel! The official paper of the Chamber of Commerce is being misused as a means of transport for the sake of a party organization, ladies and gentlemen. This is already a strong tobak, and this is obviously Wursch, Madam President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Abg. May. Trattner: She doesn't find anything with it!]] This goes so smoothly: Austria Chamber of Commerce: The ÖWB-Klausur is mentioned here in this official paper. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Where are the liberal proposals? Where are the concrete proposals for freedom?]] – Again a misuse of the forced membership contributions, ladies and gentlemen! What else? Let us, however, go into the question of how Parliament will be dealt with by you. It is stated in these papers that no ideological bastions are to be mined. So it is an ideological bastion for you to accommodate a modern industrial order. This can be read from another paper. In addition, among other things, the collection of bodice and laundry producers – a honing trade – is strong for the fact that nothing of this kind is happening in this country at all. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is a free desire!]] The last one is the thesis – literal quote from this letter of May 15, 1989. October on the official paper of the Federal Chamber of Commerce; now you must be careful, ladies and gentlemen! –: "Good reform succeeds now and with all power." So far, so good. "The longer it is resisted, the more others" – the parliamentary parties – will "take over the design." What does that mean? – For the sake of God’s will, the Parliament, which has been called upon to do so, the parliamentary parties will take the form! [[Call the ÖVP:Other! It's called "Others."]] This must be prevented with all power, ladies and gentlemen: "With all our strength, we will prevent the Chamber from taking over the design in the trade order." After good night, democracy! You still find this ridiculous, and the paper of the Federal Chamber of Commerce is being misused. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: No!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] With all the violence, we, the instigation of middle and laundry producers, will prevent access to trade, self-employment, business creation and job creation from being facilitated. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I know why you do not agree to this deadline. You want to gain time, you want to grow over the whole grass, then leave things with the old as before. Ladies and gentlemen! We caught you once again on fresh deed. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: First you said it took too long, and now it's fresh!]] Unfortunately, you have God's undeterred posts in your tube post system, but that's good, because your forced members are increasingly no longer willing to follow this path you are setting out here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would therefore ask you, Madam President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, to: Do you comply with the oath formula, which you too have sworn here, namely to give Parliament the rights to which he is entitled under the Constitution, and do not prevent the Parliament from acting in his office! That's what you're called to do! These things, which I have just quoted here, have once again given you the mirror, the mirror in which it becomes visible, which has led to the fact that in Austria we have an insurmountable trade order.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10769	Next, Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner has the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10790	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would appreciate it, ladies and gentlemen, chamber functionaries and representatives if you could listen for three minutes – I promise it no longer needs – the words go primarily to you. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We always listen!]] I usually do that when you speak. We complain on various occasions of a development in Austria, which we regret together and whose danger we have also correctly recognized. We also have suffrage-like recipes ready for this. We are talking about innovation boost, employment initiative, export billions – or as always the patent recipe – and we are actually in agreement that these instruments are at least promising. Other keywords are: Renewal initiative, debureaucratisation, renewal and the like. But now, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: When do we want to talk and when do we want to act? We know that we are not autonomous in our actions. We know that we need to take account of different things – not just the heads of state, but perhaps the least. There are other things in economic life that restrict us in the decision. But one, ladies and gentlemen, we can: We can fulfil the tasks for which we have been sent to this House. One of these tasks is to deal with legislative proposals or legislative initiatives – insignificant, by whom they are brought in. However, I reject it, Mr Drinkl, when you say: Only serious applications are dealt with, and what is to be taken seriously, I agree. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is not only democratically at last and a blow to the face of the opposition – you might want to do that – but here you see at your own chair. We can't take that. If I really understood you, dear Kurt Heindl, you talked about hurrying for a while. To this end, I must say: You are a man of the economy, you know that the haste or the time pressure is not determined by us, he is given to us from the outside. For while we do not act here, thousands of jobs are lost, every day, weekly and monthly we miss the opportunity to finally create jobs in order to at least facilitate one of you accused of wrongdoing. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr. Drinkl! It is unbearable to me if you justify this being a complex matter, it has to be handled with determination and results. As determined and result-oriented as the savings package I in eight days, such as the savings package II in seven days or the work contract reform?- Oh, my God! How determined and how result-oriented do you think this should happen? These are excuses, ladies and gentlemen. At least give Parliament and all parliamentarians the fair opportunity to discuss a matter in a committee – that is at least not an unfair one – and then, when we have exchanged our thoughts and arguments, let us vote on it here in the plenary room. Then put your majority in place, because you also have to represent it. Only: The discussion would also not harm you if you would like to take advantage of the interests of the economy and the interests of this country. The discussion, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, should allow you. We don't want to prejudicate you in your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10840	Mr Andreas Wabl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10864	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of talk about parliamentarianism. What I cannot understand, Mr Drunkl, is that you are fighting a vehemence against a process that should in itself be the most normal in this Parliament. You're arguing you don't want a husk-fusch law. You argue that the heads of state must be heard, you argue, we have to examine this very carefully, we have to conduct very precise discussions and and and so on. But, ladies and gentlemen, once you discuss a request from the Liberal Forum, whether he is good or bad, whether he is doing something or not, you refuse this simple procedure. And with that you make a very, very big and decisive mistake: They prevent the early integration of population groups and mandates into a discussion process, which may prevent such laws as the work contract rules, and which may prevent solutions from being reversed in one, two, three months. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not like Mr Peter's legislative proposal, although I believe that the trade regulation belongs to one of the most restrictive laws, to one of those laws that serve exclusively any ruling interests of any chamber or chamber, and that this is only an obstacle in the economy. I've seen it myself often enough. Such a thing about a bureaucrat jungle and such restrictions, that has nothing to do with liberal or illiberal, but it simply has to do with an accommodation, a stoned bureaucracy, which obviously leaves its claims in the last breath. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens are in favour of this deadline, because we want this House to carry out its tasks and that the discussion about it is conducted openly, fairly and democratically. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] All your arguments are credible only if you also have a dialogue, a discussion process with the opposition. Then you can take the words "result-oriented" and "target-oriented" into your mouth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10909	I don't have any further words. That concludes this debate. We shall vote on the request, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, to report to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the motion for a resolution 14/A by Mr Magistrate. Peter and comrades concerning a federal law on the pursuit of commercial activities until 31. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who may apply for this deadline. Peter enters for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. This concludes the short debate on the deadline request. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10948	I will now resume the negotiations on Agenda items 7 to 9. Mr Dr. Schwimmer came to speak. I am told that his speaking time is 5 minutes and 19 seconds. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10972	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I just want to repeat: What we are deciding today is not the introduction of the toll-vignette, as the first speaker falsely said, but rather the facilitation of the toll-vignette, which partly results from the consultation procedure with the European Commission, but also partly because of its own considerations in Austria. These are the weekly vignette – which, in fact, will be valid with two weekends even ten days – at the price of 70 S, further reliefs, especially through the reformed so-called criminal provisions and better possibilities to be able to pay in the event of a neglected toll in time, together with a supplement. This will certainly make the handling of the toll vignette more practical, which, in particular, will bring substantial reliefs for tourism in Austria. I would also like to thank the Minister of Economic Affairs for following Parliament's suggestions on the motions for resolutions on the exemption of vehicles. In accordance with the relevant Regulation, not only the vehicles used, the vehicles of the road service, the military vehicles, the public safety vehicles, but also the disabled vehicles and motor vehicles used in humanitarian aid transport are exempt from the toll obligation. An important argument for the introduction of the motorway toll by the Vignette in Austria is that it will be possible to create a gap between international transport connections and to reach a European level, but with this gap - and I also want to keep the first speaker from the FPÖ - it will create jobs and secure jobs. The claim that jobs would be threatened with the toll-vignette is completely absurd at all. The opposite is true: The increase in revenue and the use of it for the closure of the gap have led to a very strong employment impulse, especially for the construction industry. As I have therefore agreed to the introduction of the toll-vignette itself, because it is the right way, we today also agree with the reliefs to be decided on in the toll-vignette.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11015	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11036	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Schwimmer said that there should be reliefs for the Austrians who will use the motorways in the future, then it must be said to him that the reason was not just a result of the consultation procedure with the European Union, why such reliefs were created by the Federal Government, but also that the fact that it has been said by the European side, it is an abshen which is not acceptable to this extent, that it has played a role. That is why we have now introduced a weekly vignette so that tourists in Austria do not have to pay for the whole year or for a longer period of time. That was the reason. Ladies and gentlemen! This also shows quite clearly that this measure was not an ecological measure but a purely financing measure. It is a peculiar fact that this federal government is more and more often engaged in innovation in the same year of laws which it decides to adopt. The Federal Road Finance Act is accompanied by the year 1996. This novel, ladies and gentlemen, also bears the year 1996. This shows that the Turbo, which has apparently been installed in the Federal Government, has not increased the quality, but probably the law issue of this House. Ladies and gentlemen! The Vignette should, quite clearly and clearly, finance the gap on Austrian motorways. I wonder, Mr President, why this Federal Government has abolished the commitment to mineral oil tax. The oil tax should finance road construction. This commitment has been abolished because of budget problems, and the money that was allocated to road construction has not been implemented in the general budget and is faced with the fact that the money for road construction is no longer available and new sources of funding need to be opened up. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals will reject this pure acquisition of money. We do not see why, as an opposition, we should resolve the mistakes of the government with our support. This is not necessary, especially because the vignette does not in any way mean environmental control of transport. That would be something we wish not only for a road pricing, but also for the first steps to be taken in this direction. That would be something you could win the liberals for. However, ladies and gentlemen, we will not give you our consent to this. Cost-truth in transport – and this was particularly written in the German Federal Government’s main book – cannot begin by taking up a contribution in almost every car that travels somewhere in Austria, but cost-truth must be based on how much a person drives, how much the environment is burdened by public or private transport. If that happens, you will also be able to create a real competitive situation between public transport on the one hand and individual transport on the other. That's something the Liberals want. Please remember this summer. It was the Liberals who, taking up an idea from the European Union, proposed that all the flat-rate taxes currently in force in the transport sector in Austria, especially in the individual transport sector, should be converted into taxes, i.e. kilometre-related and emission-related. This would be a measure which would have a very strong environmental control function. This would also mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we must put on the table clearly how much the financial burden on cars in Austria is already. We have, in fact, converted this for individual motor vehicles. It turned out that in weights that are quite widespread, for example, with an Audi A4 of 74 KW, a kilometre equivalent would only be reached at more than 34,000 kilometers. If one says how much the standard burden, the financial burden per passenger car, is, then it becomes clear how deep the Federal Government is already in the sack of citizens, but without this in any way having an environmental impact, because the flat-rate taxes will be lifted even if you do not use your car and thus do not create an environmental burden. If it were the Federal Government's concern to take account of environmental burdens in particular, then it would have already resorted to the "roadway bill for Austria", which Mr Farnleitner was certainly not unknown because he came from 1993. This traffic bill for Austrian roads shows that a passenger car using the main motorways reaches a cost-covering rate of 57 percent, taking into account accident costs and environmental costs, while a car on a federal road only reaches a cost-covering level of 31 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the fact is that the introduction of the Vignette will naturally push traffic from the motorways to the federal roads. The fact is that environmental pollution is increasing, and that, from an environmental point of view, it is also included in a national economic account. More of the costs will be produced. That is why today – and I should just like to remind you that this proposal has not been adopted by you in the speed of our wish – that the national accounts will be extended as soon as possible by ecological criteria. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In any case, this will have to be done by the European Union's initiative by the year 2000. We could have preceded a step in Austria, but what has not yet happened, as has been said. Therefore, since the Federal Road Finance Act will have absolutely no positive environmental impact and in fact only serves to close those financial gaps that have been opened up by the Federal Government by abolishing the commitment to mineral oil tax, the Liberals will not give their consent to this law. With regard to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenstingl and my colleagues, who are in favour of a toll picker for vehicles with alternating marks, I would like to say that we are going to join this motion for a resolution because, in the end, there is no environmental additional burden by a vehicle equipped with a change mark. You can only drive one vehicle. Therefore, it is not necessary to have a pickerl for both, but it is enough to solve a pickerl because – I say it again – one only induces an environmental pollution. We shall vote against the motion for a resolution on the prevention of double toe as a result of the introduction of the toll picker. We do not think it would be useful if we wanted to take the step towards more cost-truth, to remove those punctual charges that there have been for very special construction projects – when there has been a commitment to mineral oil tax. We don't think that makes sense. We will therefore not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. We also do not want to exclude city highways from a general cost reality or from the effort to ensure a cost-effectiveness in transport. There is no real reason why, for example, overland motorways should be subject to criteria other than urban motorways. The agenda item 8, which calls on the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs to provide for derogations to be granted to the vehicles in question, will be approved. That's what we think makes sense. We will also agree to Agenda item 9, which is being negotiated here under one – this is a request made by Mr Reichhold, which provides for a loophole of an already existing motorway in the Carinthian area. We believe that Mr Reichhold's request makes sense. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, we also note that we do not think it useful to take up new motorways in Austria in the major. It makes sense to close individual gaps. But we do not want to have a fair competitive situation between individual transport on the one hand and rail on the other, in a situation where there is no cost truth, to the extent that, as is still happening, individual traffic continues to be preferred. We believe that public transport deserves more attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11120	The next item is the speech by Mr Eder. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11142	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the management of the high-level road network in Austria has been under discussion for a number of years. Not least since the merger of road companies, my group has drawn up and presented direction-setting concepts. Already in the context of the merger of road companies mentioned above, it has been shown that there are huge savings potentials. Furthermore, it is a particular concern to stress that the above mentioned efficiency improvements and rationalizations in these societies could take place without social tensions in the enterprises and did not take place at the expense of personnel. I am therefore particularly grateful to the staff and their representatives in these companies, of which I know that they would also cooperate very flexibly and cooperatively in the matter of final merger in a company. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition to this merger, the question of road pricing was always in the foreground for us. I also share the opinion of my predecessor, Mr Mag, in some areas. Barmüller. A satisfactory level of cost-reliability can only be achieved through the driving performance dependency of a toll system. The vignette, whose design we are adapting to the appropriate suggestions of the European Commission today, which have resulted from the consultation procedure, is therefore also a transitional solution for us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put another amendment here, which... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Nothing lasts as long as Austrian Provisions!]] I would also like to tell you the dates, Mr Barmüller. However, I would like to make a quick request for an amendment before, which assumes that the customs guards' bodies have so far only been involved in the implementation of the 1996 Federal Road Finance Act within the framework of their activities as border control bodies. It is now planned that the customs guards' bodies shall take action within the framework of all their tasks under customs law. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I just remember that in the law itself, as dates – and this is now addressed to Mr Barmüller’s address – for the installation of the road pricing, the years 1998 for the truck and 2001 for the passenger car are laid down in the law. The technical possibilities will be at this time... [[Abg. May. Peter: We will remind you!]] Yes, I'll make sure we do it myself. We'll do it together. The technical possibilities will undoubtedly be given at this time, because I believe they are already to a great extent as foreign examples show. Ladies and gentlemen! The vignette is now an advantage for two reasons. First, it allows relatively fast to achieve revenue – that is not a question at all – which also benefits road construction under law. This means, among other things, that the loophole – and I am really speaking only of the loophole – can be speeded up in the high-level road network. This is important not only for the drivers who, in addition to maintaining the existing routes, receive a further concrete return, but also in particular for the economy and, of course, for the construction industry. I do not need to stress what the projects decided in the Federal Government's construction summit mean for the domestic labour market. Secondly, the Vignette is also closely linked to the possibility to adapt the management of the high-level road network in Austria to the Maastricht criteria and thus to make full use of the aforementioned synergies and efficiency gains. The proposed merger, which I have spoken about, will in any case meet the relevant EU criteria already in the period before the introduction of the road pricing system. It is also necessary from the EU's point of view that the new society, which is to be founded here, is already in place in 1997. For this purpose, it must be equipped with appropriate assets, which I believe should be done by transferring the right of fruit on the high-level road network. I hope, for example, that the countries which are still holding shares in road companies will not prevent mergers. There have been some difficulties with the merger three years ago. I hope that these will no longer occur. I do not see the question of conservation as a problem in this regard. I assume that no changes will be made in the responsibilities of the Federal Road Administration of the countries and the road companies in the short term. In the medium term, however, I would call for the national institutions to become themselves so far as to be able to compete as independent competitors of the market, even in order to be able to make even better and more flexible use of the know-how of the employees. For all the reasons mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote in favour of today's amendment, while I would like to point out in particular that our motion for a resolution, which has already been adopted in the Building Committee, which calls on the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs to exclude certain vehicles of use, police, rescue, fire brigade, mountain rescue and so on, as Mr Schwimmer said, from the vignette solution by means of a regulation. However, I would like to conclude by stressing that the work on the outlined comprehensive reconstruction of the management of the high-level road network in Austria should be pursued with emphasis from my point of view and that the merger mentioned should be carried out at the latest in the first quarter of next year. That would be my request to the Federal Minister. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11247	The request submitted and supported in accordance with the rules of procedure by Mr Eder shall be included in the negotiations. The next item is the speech by Mr Anschober. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11271	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What the greens think of the vignette, I really don't need to repeat. We have already documented this very clearly and clearly. I consider them to be a socially and ecologically completely unforgivable money-raising system, which does not correspond to what we all – I can only agree with the previous speakers – would consider necessary, namely steps and measures towards cost-truth particularly in the individual transport sector. It is not possible to save a fundamentally misguided concept by the fact that, whatever the pressure, some of the pressure from the European Union, some of which are of course also created by the car drivers' organizations, which have also been massively committed to a number of exceptions. In my opinion, the best solution for the vignette would be the exception for all citizens and the very, very rapid introduction of alternative measures that are on the table. This is either electronic road pricing, which already works in some areas of Europe, so it cannot be the technology alone in Austria, since the preparation is already lacking in the long term. I can recall Parliament's 1991 debates, where there has already been a call for international examples of where it works. But this was unfortunately not done to God in time. Secondly, I have to say that there are concepts in the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself which cover what the Greens are proposing as a solution in this area – a kilometre tax, which is not reduced to the motorway, but is generally defined without a total increase in the load on all roads. There is a parliamentary response to the question, which took place about half a year ago, in which the Ministry of Economic Affairs also decided to consider it in this direction. This would also be easy to measure, for example with a plombed tachometer and reading during annual picnic control. This would be a relatively cheap system, which would be feasible, which could quickly implement an Austrian-wide mileage and thus a form of road pricing before electronic implementation. Thomas Barmüller has already addressed the disadvantages of the Vignette. I'm saving myself to repeat this now. We have discussed it several times. But, Minister, perhaps this is an opportunity for us to discuss a second area briefly, and I would be very curious about your opinion now. There has been a question response half a year ago, which estimated the annual net income from the vignette with about 1.2 billion schilling. I know. Forecasts in a newly introduced system are not a simple matter, quite clear. But I assume – and you will probably not disagree with me – that any exception, as small as the population affected by it, will nevertheless not lead to an increase in revenue, but rather to the opposite – even if, as has been said, smaller groups of people – but also the EU-enforced rules will not contribute to the increase in revenue. So 1.2 billion schillings were the estimates at the time. Now I hear that in your ministry, for three weeks now, the draft regulation for the financing of the first shortfall package, the 15-billion schilling package, has been in place that it has already been presented to the Ministry of Finance for the production of agreement – I think, that is the concrete formulation – and, of course, the refinancing is planned through vignette and road pricing. And there is suddenly no longer 1.2 billion schilling, but, as I hear, 2.5 billion schilling is going to come out, despite these derogations, which are likely to be decided today! My question now is: As it is, of course, an essential financial policy question for Austria as a whole, whether the forecasts are coming, I ask you how you suddenly calculate a doubling of revenue, how you come to these new figures, how you come from 1.2 billion to 2.5 billion schilling. Because – and that is what I need, I hope to tell no one here in this House – this can of course also indirectly affect the government debt ratio, because our debt through ASFINAG in a range of around 77 billion schilling – my memory is measured above the thumbs – plus the 15 billion shilling that we would have to calculate here, can only be fairly calculated and calculated out of the government debt ratio, if the ratio of revenue and investment is actually simple. I believe that if the forecasts on revenue – 2.5 billion schilling – are not very well-founded and are not sure, a risk that should be discussed. That is why, in this debate, my request, Mr Minister, to give us an insight into how these new forecasts have come about. I know there's a study behind it that was commissioned. Nevertheless: Tell us what concrete, completely modified estimates and calculations are here, so that this House can say with good conscience, that is so explanatory and that could become reality. – I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11340	Mr Kröll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11362	Mr President. Minister! High house! On request 288/A and 233/A (E) concerning the Federal Road Financing Act and Regulation establishing exceptions to the Mautvignette, there is a lot to be found, including the additions to the discussions of the Building Committee 347 and 348 with the grounds for the application. I am already aware that with the introduction of an annual toll vignette, which has already been identified today, the basic and the derogation for motorways and highways will not all have a joy. Nevertheless, for a good reason, we can accept the requests made by the Building Committee, the relevant Members with the improved measures and reliefs now envisaged. In fact, it is primarily about EU adaptation and significant rules of relief and relief. Reasons: First: We need more roads, not just the closure of motorway gaps, but in general. From my home country I know that the gap of the Pyrns has to be closed, but also in the Ennstal we have been waiting for a regulation for many years, for example. Other road constructions are therefore necessary. We need, of course, financial resources which are not generally available from the budget. That was also the reason for the vignette that – I believe it is around 1.5 billion schilling – these revenues are specifically and specifically available to road construction. As a affected superior, I say: A general vignette for all Austrians and all road users who also come to us from abroad and travel through Austria on motorways and highways is more justifiable than the current solution. I already understand that a Viennese or a Lower Austrian would like to never pay anything. But when we go to Graz or Linz, we always pay toll, and we do not see that we are being disadvantaged. That is why I think the vignette is a more just solution, because it is a solution that concerns all of Austria. [[Abg. Applebeck: We do not want to pay twice, my colleague.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Slaughter!]] You, I'm good at living with that. I have ten mandates and two mandates. That's not a problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So if we achieve more justice and at the same time obtain funds for further road constructions, it is also the right way. If we had enough money and did not need to build roads, we would also not have to deal with vignettes and exceptions in this regard. But that's not the way it is. The derogations provided for by Regulation by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with the approval competence of the Ministry of Finance, take into account both the interests of the worker commuters – this is an important matter – and the annual toll card owners. A solution has also been found for the operational vehicles, namely an exemption for disabled vehicles, for the entire executive, fire brigade, rescue, rescue and military vehicles. This is, I believe, really a solution to which one can say, if one sees the condition as we see it: that we still need resources for road constructions. In this regard, I should like to refer to the efforts of the Heads of State, including our wife, Mr Klasnic, as well as many mayors from these regions, who have been able to carry out essentially what has been mentioned here by the Minister. This exemption, or by taking into account the annual toll cards and the consignor's cards, ensures that there is no additional toll for these groups. It is not only an EU-compliant solution, but above all a tourism-friendly one. The weekly ticket with the 10-day validity and two weekends of 70 S for the passenger car or for a bus with 300 S is just as interesting as a 2-month vignette of 80 S or 150 S for a multi-track car or 1 500 S for the bus. It has responded to legitimate concerns and needs of tourism in our regions and has been quite flexible. I therefore believe that these short-term stages are now also EU-compliant, and that, as I have said, if you evaluate everything, it is not a question of whether we need it or not, but of whether or not it is necessary for further road construction. Financial conditions must be created, as fair as possible. Therefore, exceptions are necessary. At the same time, however, there should be a vignette for all Austrians and all road users driving high-level roads in our country. I believe that in principle we can agree to the improved derogations and reliefs. We'll do it, and I'll invite you to do it, too. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11418	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speaking time: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11440	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If the colleague, in his speech to my colleague Rosenstingl, has submitted to my colleague Ignorance, the first point is to reject it sharply. Secondly, he must be considered double-use, unless he has not listened to what Mr Rosenstingl has said. [[Abg. Marizzi: He was right!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: He just said the truth!]] He has explained exactly what freedom is about us. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You've admitted, you're putting it under me!]] You can now shout out what you want, what you've done was ignorance! [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You said it yourself, you put it on me!]] I put it to you, and this is the following: These are two items on the agenda, which are discussed here: We also agree with the point on derogations for use vehicles, Mr Schwimmer, because we see an improvement in them. We will not, of course, agree with Amendment No 288, because there are no improvements, which is just a fine cut of the Vignette load package, Mr Schwimmer. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why do you even interfere?]] I defend my colleague Rosenstingl. We all know what it is all about: a change to the Federal Road Financing Act, which we adopted here months ago and which we have not already voted in favour of, because this Vignette system is basically wrong, Mr. Schwimmer. That's what experts say, not just our liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, in the political discussion, there were commitments by the then Federal Minister Ditz to keep the section Kufstein/Kiefersfelden and Kufstein/Ausfahrt Süd mautfrei. This Federal Road Finance Act explicitly states that the purchase of the Vignette is necessary in the use of federal motorways. It is therefore quite logical that exceptions from this purchasing obligation should also be laid down by means of the Federal Road Finance Act. We have one point where such derogations exist, namely those for use vehicles; we are also free to do so. It would only be logical and useful to lay down the proposed derogation, which, in the meantime, also after a longer period of time, Mr. Farnleitner's Federal Minister, seems to have recognized the dramatic situation in Kufstein, due to day tourism in the Kitzbühel area, because otherwise one would not have sought a solution which, however, now seems to be such that it is only shortly before the second exit. If one were to keep the exception in the law, examples would not be feared. However, it may well be feared that the solution you are trying to achieve will be an example. Then: Can you tell me, Minister of State, what will be done in Bregenz? Maybe they'll be set up somewhere else? You have to make it easy for me to doubt the effectiveness of this law as a whole and the conformity of the law with this rule for Kufstein, because how do you then want to carry out the checks in this area? There must be no border control on entry, and there must be no traffic control for the first five kilometres. This also does not control alcoholised handlebars or speed breakers in this area, because, according to amendment 288/A, these controls can only be carried out in connection with traffic monitoring. How do you imagine this on your return trip, Mr. Federal Minister? There is still greater legal uncertainty. It would then be necessary to carry out control at the border at the exit and would further strengthen the weekly border stand already in place. Federal Minister! I think you just know the reality too little. I doubt at all that the checks in Tyrol can be carried out in such a way that they will ultimately produce the results you are imagining. In holiday periods, there are 90 percent transit traffic, and those who do not leave the motorway in the corresponding areas can only be stopped if a sample-like check is carried out; for the first time or during the first time, there is no administrative penalty. I do not think that Mr Schwimmer is positive. He also tailored the Swiss model. There are very high administrative penalties, although in principle I do not want to compare them. De facto it is that "the stupid tourists" who stay in Tyrol must buy the vignette, also the Austrians will have to buy them, and the only transitors will again take advantage of all possibilities – as happens now in the Brennermaut area – either to avoid the secondary road network or to escape traffic control. Federal Minister! You said to me in committee that a Lex Kufstein was unthinkable for you because of the violation of the principle of equality. However, we liberals are not for such sloppy law enforcement solutions as they are now forced by you and your party colleagues. That is why we are proposing the following amendment to Amendment No 288/A: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to comply with Mr Ditz's promise in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11559	The amendment tabled by Mrs Haller is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker was Member Marizzi. Please, honourable Member. 20 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11584	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haller, I don't understand you. They are against the vignette and at the same time for the derogations. It's like your husband's against a car buy and would give you four winter tires instead of a bead chain at Christmas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] I cannot imagine how all of this fits together, Mrs Haller. [[Abg. Haller: I did not give the promise of the release of toll, Mr. Cot!]] They are against the vignette and the derogations. No one knows. You have to explain this to me, I'd like to finish in 5 minutes. [[Abg. Auer: What's popular, it's against it!]] – Yes: We're against everything, but don't know why. Mr Schwimmer has already talked about the positive changes in this novel, and this has also been discussed in detail in the Committee. Col. Rosenstingl has already brought the philosophy of the word: Work destroyer. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! The Federal Government will invest at least 37 billion Schilling in the development of the transport network over the next five or six years. There should be a little caution with the word "workplace destroyers", because if you can count on a little, colleague – you can perhaps take the calculator – then you can calculate how many jobs are secured with it and how many orders the construction industry has. This allegation really comes from the last load. Mr. Rosenstingl! If you say that the vignette would basically be a scrapping action, I have to stop you: Every year – you are so foreign-friendly – 77 million foreign cars and trucks travel through Austria. Neighbor countries like Italy have a beautification, Switzerland has a vignette, France has a road pricing system, and then the people drive through the country and don't even refuel. On the one hand, we know that we are a transit country, and then the accusation comes that this is a scrapping action. It is fair because people across Europe are saying that motorway use must also cost something. And if 77 million foreign trucks and cars are going through, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, then you have to talk about it and say that the first step is the vignette. Switzerland has it, it is satisfied with it, and I believe that no Austrian who is driving on a motorway in Italy can drive there free of charge. So I'm on the next subject, because you say that's anti-tourism: In Italy the journey from Tarvis to Venice on the motorway, I think, more than 70 S, and a tourist vignette for ten days costs 70 S, my dear ladies and gentlemen! I don't think there's supposed to be anything to do with us and make it ready. In my opinion, the introduction of the vignette and all the changes on the one hand have a positive effect on road construction, on the other hand, we also have a cost-effectiveness in transport. Because colleague Barmüller is sitting here: I know I may be alone in my group, but I am careful about the introduction of road pricing. The vignette costs the Austrian taxpayer something, but brings the state 2.2 billion schilling. The road pricing will burden the driver with 10 billion. I believe that if Mr Barmüller says on the one hand that the driver is now so heavily burdened, and on the other hand pleads for road pricing, then I must say that he goes a narrow way on the shaving blade because the road pricing costs 10 billion. I know the Greens want this, and the Liberals want it too. Perhaps they want the ÖVP and the SPÖ to lose in the next elections, because we will decide, and the others will be against it. And with that, we are again in a situation of which the others say: Yes, we were in Parliament for the other variant, but the government has decided. Col. Rosenstingl has again confused something – he has talked about the Semmering tunnel again: He meant the railway tunnel, I mean the road tunnel now, because not the railway tunnel is financed with the vignette and with these financing systems, but the road tunnel. Please direct this to Mr Rosenstingl! He spoke about the Semmering railway tunnel; here in this building complex the road tunnel is meant. And I, ladies and gentlemen, from the district of Neunkirchen, tell you: We're glad! Federal Minister! Mr. Ditz was elected 18th. It was promised here on 1 March 1994 that the financing would now be secured and that it would start. Mr Anschober asked you to do something about this, and I would like to see the timetable and look at it carefully. I would therefore be glad if you could send me this once, when the flooring is really there and when the official works are started there. This project has taken ten years. Semmering – you know that – experiences a renaissance of tourism, but he suffocates in traffic. We have an 80 percent traffic burden, and we want to expand tourism there. All the political parties in the district have the consensus that this Semmering road tunnel should be built. Federal Minister! You can make us happy if perhaps in the spring of next year there is the flooring ceremony. Then we'll all come. In principle, we are all – even I personally – for the vignette, I am personally also in favour of the regulations provided for. In road pricing, you have to watch out for a little bit – it costs 10 billion schilling. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a first step towards cost truth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11651	The next speaker was Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member. Possible speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11672	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are two reasons why I spoke here: One is the aspect of Mr Marizzi. I mean, the vignette and the road pricing are just two very different accesses to the cost-trueness of transport. I believe that, for this reason, the Vignette was the quick solution within the framework of the savings package, because it is relatively easy to implement, but that the sustainable solution for the production of cost-truth in transport – and also for the production of an equal level of opportunity between rail and road – should be the road-dependent burden. The fact that this is not problem-free is admitted, and that, for example, in the area of commuters and so on, and so on, under certain circumstances there will be a different legal need, I leave it completely open, I admit that is so. This does not mean, however, that one must not seek the principle of a solution that reflects the use of the transport system. That's why I mean, road pricing is certainly not easy, but it's fairer, more responsible than the vignette that works linearly and inflexibly. But what I am going to say today, and what I would have liked to see in the Stenographical Protocols, is this: We have here once again a "novelling in the short rhythm", i.e. once again one of the repairs under the so-called savings package – this time imposed from the outside: It was not quite EU-compatible, from anyone who is here only a short time to demand the annual vignette, therefore we have a novel in the form of an initiative proposal, the whole package of savings being an initiative proposal. But then I am all the less aware of why Mr Auer and Mr Eder have now tabled the derogations for use vehicles in the form of a motion for a resolution. So this is an exception that is very well formulated! If we wanted to, we could have chosen the path of the initiative and not the motion for a resolution. In this context, the Members of Parliament, who have in some cases requested exactly what has been requested in the context of the savings package and who have decided on what is now unsatisfying in the use of vehicles, as we are completely together in content, call on the Federal Government to change what Parliament has decided by means of an initiative proposal. So I'd rather have expected an initiative proposal. [[Abg. May. Peter: Maybe they can't be different!]] But perhaps this was more a request for the display window, and there is a resolution all the more quickly written and less binding in the effect. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter.]] In the specific case, he is very capable of majority, I only wonder when we can expect that this exception, to which everyone confesses, will be decided in such a way that it also has the power of law. The motion for a resolution is beautiful – our group will agree to it – and we would rather have agreed to a relevant initiative proposal. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11714	President. — I call the European Democratic Group. – Ladies and gentlemen, please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11735	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues have already given an in-depth opinion on the amendment of the Federal Road Finance Act in 1996, and I would like to make a few fundamental comments. To build, maintain, improve and expand an appropriate infrastructure is the prerequisite for flourishing the economy and thus for maintaining, safeguarding and re-establishing jobs. The development of road transport is an indicator of the economy as a whole, and it is likely that this will continue to be characterised by productivity increases in the future. If the figures for transport in the Federal territory of 1995 are compared with those of 1980, it is noted that traffic has increased by 80.2 percent over the past 15 years. It is therefore legitimate and essential to seek new forms of funding to close the gaps in the high-level road network. ==References====External links== January 1997 and the proceeds of the road pricing, which hopefully comes in for trucks from 1. Of course, 100 per cent must be used for the completion and shortfall of the high-level road network in January 1998. A few other thoughts: Tourism, Mr. Federal Minister, is not only in a structural crisis due to a change in guest behaviour, but also an easy accessibility with appropriate infrastructure is of great importance for a tourism area. If guests cannot travel quickly and easily, they avoid this area and drive where this is possible. Therefore, a rapid expansion of local experience for tourism communities is vital. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also very difficult for the population to explain why tunnels are being built in areas where no one lives, but which are certainly threatened by slabs and avalanches, and where over 1,000 people have their food point, nothing is happening at present. It is clear that one is paid out of the disaster fund and the other is to be taken from the Federal Road Administration resources, only for citizens is the tax money a money without mascherl, and this is hardly to be explained to them. In addition, the B 145, which I am now talking about, is the most frequented federal road and the important access to the Salzkammergut after the B 1 in Upper Austria. In the Salzkammergut, just over 50 percent of the tourist value added of the Federal Republic of Austria is generated. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to eliminate the last difficult coniferous tube to the Salzkammergut and to construct the localisation of Traunkirchen as soon as possible. Dear Federal Minister! Since June 1966, the general project for the tour of Traunkirchen has been available to the Ministry for approval. Tomorrow will be a meeting with the building director of Upper Austria. I would ask you, after a positive outcome of this meeting, to ensure that Traunkirchen is approved as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11796	I call Mr Wabl. Possible speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11818	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen still present! We have discussed in the committee how useful this measure is of concern to the extent to which the derogations are appropriate and how appropriate or inappropriate the question of road pricing is. In itself, the ideology or idea of road pricing is the most appropriate answer to the problem of performance-dependent taxation. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think this system is extremely problematic. I believe that a much simpler system would lead to much better effects in connection with the achievement of the cost reliability: a quite ordinary explosion of the kilometre counters and a billing similar to that of the gas bill or electricity bill, which could be carried out with the constant review by the car workshop at Pickerl. This will be paid with the insurance. One could even use consumption as a key. If the argument comes that people who have to drive very far, of course, have to pay a lot – of course, the cost-truth should go through – then we have to try on this side to achieve a balance, but we should not be depriving ourselves of driving. That is why I consider the derogation for fire brigade, rescue and federal army to be the wrong way, even though I believe that the general public and the state should, of course, stand up for it, but the cost truth must, of course, be safeguarded. I believe that this type of derogation is wrong. But it is usually the argument that those in Europe and in Brussels want something completely different, and they have signaled us – there are special circles that signal something like this, which are probably the lobbys that earn billions of money with the new road pricing system – that will not come. Then comes the excellent argument: What do we do with the car coming from abroad? – Of course I also offer them something! Either they—they won't do that—or I'll offer them a vignette—adapted to their stay and stay. Ladies and gentlemen! I already know that all of this is very complicated and that power relations in Europe are very difficult. But why is it not possible if I really want to find and find a simple unbureaucratic solution? – There are enough technically talented people and practically engaged people who think about it and come to very good and coherent solutions. I only know this as a gas-reducer and electricity-reducer that this works without a complaint. I'm in Vienna for about ten years now, and I've never seen anyone with me. It works automatically. I have my electricity and gas meters, and I'm going to tell you the numbers, and if the gas and the urban works distrust me, they'll have to read them. It's much easier with the driver: He goes to the workshop, and there the pickerl is automatically read out, and then I pay the insurance as I do at the car's tax. Ladies and gentlemen! Such simple solutions are therefore not going through because I have the terrible and terrible suspicion that the cost truth is not actually being sought, but that all these measures are merely used to stop budget holes. I have already said in the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, that I have nothing against the fact that a government is trying to put an end to its budget gaps by individual ministers. That's necessary. You have to get the money somewhere. But then I ask for a correct argument, a correct line when taxing. People have to be told why these taxes are lifted, and they are also keen to understand them. For if I collect taxes under the wrong title and suggest to people that I do so in order to achieve cost-truth, I think this is the wrong way, because I believe that I am discrediting one of the most important measures in the tax system, namely the greening of the tax system. This reduces people's understanding of an important tax measure. I know from surveys carried out in recent months and years that most people want to make a contribution to environmental protection, even if it costs something or much. But there is no understanding, ladies and gentlemen, if under the title of eco-tax, only measures are taken under the title of environmental protection to reorganise the budget. Because then it's more correct when I say: I must reorganise the budget and try to get money here, and take measures that bring a lot of money. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that's acceptable. But I do not think it permissible for these measures to discredit environmental instruments which are ultimately to the detriment of all. You've chosen a way I think is wrong. You know very well that cost-truth is only achieved if I actually accept what I have calculated in connection with total economic costs and if I have actually put all the external costs on it. That would also increase competitiveness in Austria as a whole, and that this would also bring a great competitive advantage to our Austrian economy in the future, you unfortunately overlook. That is why we are left with nothing but to reject these proposals that you have tabled. I would like you, Mr Federal Minister, to present and enforce some more consistent proposals in this context. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11887	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Please, honourable Member. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11908	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment of the Federal Road Finance Act essentially takes account of the European Commission's high ease of use, and I believe that this also takes into account Austrian tourism. There will be a vignette for cars up to 3.5 tonnes for the week to 70 S and for single-track motor vehicles for two months to 80 S. The validity of the vignette will also be increased to ten days. This also corresponds to the average length of stay of our guests in Austria. Because of this weekly vignette, the proposed combination vignette, which includes two journeys for important routes, will not be available. In addition, adjustments have also been made to criminal provisions. Repayment provisions for the use of the non-Vignette motorway have been made in concrete terms. The terms of this draft law are intended to ensure compliance with private law due to public interests. However, this can only be ensured if the criminal framework is designed in such a way that those affected do not have excessive control efforts to act in accordance with the law. The threat of punishment must indicate that the person who withdraws the toll carries a significant cost risk. The bodies responsible for monitoring will monitor the proper execution of the toll either by sampling in the framework of traffic surveillance or by regular checks at border. In the case of a vehicle driver who has withdrawn the toll, the possibility of payment of the toll and of an amount laid down in the toll regulations will first be offered. If this is done, the handlebar will have the possibility to use the toll roads for another 24 hours. This makes sense that the drivers are not forced to leave the high-level road network and to use other roads only because of entering. However, if the handlebar does not carry out the payment in spite of a request, it will be in accordance with the administrative penalty law. Of course, the penalty payments of the Bundesstraßengesellschaft are transferred, since the funds were also retained. The fact that the money is used for the preservation of the federal roads is of course. I am also very pleased that, in the form of a resolution to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, the Committee has asked him, by means of a regulation, to create derogations and to exempt vehicles of firearms, safety executives, rescues, rescues and military vehicles from both the driving power-dependent tolls and the obligation of vignettes. These derogations are in the sense of general public interest and are undoubtedly justified on an objective basis. It would also not be reasonable to require the various aid organisations for operations in the interest of the general public, for example for the recovery of accident victims on motorways, to pay for the intended toll. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the amendment allows for a fairer system of use on the one hand and more economic administration on the other. The current toll solution is a sensible transitional solution to road pricing, which, I hope, will also be implemented in the scheduled timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11963	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11984	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the revision of the Federal Road Finance Act, a law that is just as young as bad as I mean. This vignette will certainly not make a change to public transport, it will certainly not be a solution to the transport problems. It is that, as some of my previous speakers have already announced, it is simply once again an expenditure for the budget. The roads have already been paid out of the mineral oil tax. However, it is no longer used for purpose, and the commitment to purpose has been abolished. This is the result of once again getting a grip on the citizens' pockets. We will certainly not support this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When I think of the arguments of various previous speakers, ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the honourable Member, who believes that all this is facilitated and therefore quite positive, that tourism is shown a particularly positive direction by these measures taken here, this clearly rounds out the picture I am taking from the SPÖ-EIA Government and its Members. It is, as he said, because the collection is facilitated, that is, the collection by the executive. The sale of vignettes may be carried out by the executive officers, while collecting the penalty. He said: The Vignette is an advantage for tourism. – This should be said to the Tyroleans, for example, that this is an advantage in the area of day tourism. I don't see it like that. If the introduction of a vignette is the solution to job problems, we would logically have to conclude: If we introduce more vignettes, we will have full employment in this country again. Mr Marizzi sees a contradiction in the statements of my colleague, Edith Haller, a contradiction because the liberals are against the vignette and yet vote in favour of the derogations. . Well, real political findings, Mr Marizzi, you must also admit to us. We know that the vignette is not to be prevented, and I can very well imagine what statement you have made, the liberals would vote against these regulations. Then the liberals would probably be villains who speak against these reliefs. It's not quite understandable. You referred to Mr Rosenstingl. I can tell you why Mr Rosenstingl spoke about the Semmering base tunnel. We are discussing the Federal Road Finance Act here, but, ladies and gentlemen, I can remind you - Mr Marizzi, I think you know - that the Lower Austrian Landtag in 1988 adopted the decision for the construction of the Semmering-Schnellstraße, which S 6. This decision was taken with the approval of all land day groups, and it was given a corresponding priority, namely stage 1. The base tunnel, the financial resources for the construction of the highway, is not available. However, I think it would be useful to meet the demand for the construction of the highway and finally stop this absurd project – we know what problems are related to it due to the exploration drilling drilling that was carried out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I accept the motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12077	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll involve him in the trial. The next speaker is Member of Parliament. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: Five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12102	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the Federal Road Finance Act today, we must first ask the following general questions: What financial means do we have for dealing with the urgently needed gaps in the high-level road network? What financial means do we have to ensure that roads can be preserved or maintained? And we also have to ask ourselves quite honestly how we can handle the ASFINAG debts accordingly, so that we do not leave a huge debt mountain for the next generations, because we are interested in the fact that youth also has a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is Parliament, not the Sunday speaker! 50 percent more tax!]] – So much for general consideration. I only have 5 minutes, please let me talk! If, ladies and gentlemen, as a Tyrolean Member of the European Parliament, I deal specifically with the situation in Tyrol, I must, in spite of all the concerns that exist there or there, agree with the obligation of vignette. To date, particularly those regions where special toads have existed have been particularly disadvantaged, and now an approximation has been made. However, we must ensure that more equality is created in future systems. In order to limit these disadvantages, certain solutions have been put forward. I think, for example, in the case of special-maidens, of annual card owners to whom the vignette is reimbursed. I am thinking of the commuters, for example the heavily burdened commuters of the Wipptal, who also enjoy derogations. However, I am also thinking of the 10-day vignette of 70 s – two beer – which is the best way to prevent a toll flight, with accompanying investigations being carried out here. The Minister will tell us about this. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In Germany you get a box of beer around 70 S!]] Now, quite specifically, the Kufstein problem raised here by Mr Haller – unfortunately, it is not present. I admit that this short part is a problem, but it was proposed by our Minister in a non-bureaucratic way, namely that labelling should only take place a few kilometres later and that no execution by executive bodies be carried out. And I think that should now be said to the competent Council of the State of the Liberties, Lugger, who has every opportunity to satisfy the people of the country. There would be a non-bureaucratic measure by Landesrat Lugger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that our June 1996 motion for a resolution has also been taken into account and that vehicles of fire brigade, rescue, mountain rescue and the like have been excluded from the obligation of vignette. Ladies and gentlemen! It is no secret in Tyrol that I have always spoken for the vignette from the very beginning, because I come from a region which is subject to enormous traffic pollution. I come from the district of Landeck, the westernmost district of the country of Tyrol. Through the city of Landeck donate 20,000 vehicles a day. And it is not even, Mr Wabl, the Greens, against the fact that a bypass is being built there, that the southern passage of Landeck is built. I would like to thank the Minister for the start of the construction of this passage in the near future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also think about the Stanzertal. Who doesn't know: This is the valley where the 2001 sliding season will take place. There is also a bottleneck that needs to be adjusted. But this can only be done if appropriate possibilities are available when there is such revenue. It can't be so, ladies and gentlemen, that you let the muscles play when you ask, but then, when it comes to financing, the eyes close. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In view of all these brief considerations, I say that I am obliged to make a statement. I am referring to the commitment of these funds to the loophole in the high-level road network. I'm talking about nature conservation. But I also say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a clear yes to the protection of the people affected and that appropriate relief measures can be taken by means of the toll. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask: I am looking for increased positive public relations abroad so that our moderate toll fees can be met in comparison with other countries, so that Tyrol can continue to be attractive as a tourist country in the heart of Europe and thus vernadery and bad manufacturing have an end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12178	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Possible speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12200	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a brief comment on the obligation of vignettes. I have always believed that if motorways are already underway, not everything should be pushed over a comb. However, I believe that a vignette that does not include the other tolls already available in Austria is a great nonsense. The Austrians would certainly be more satisfied with a vignette which is a bit more expensive, but which includes all other tolls. The whole thing is nothing but a purely monetary acquisition of the Federal Government, otherwise nothing at all! My contribution to the debate is mainly related to the application 73/A by my colleague Reichhold on financing and completion of the section on the West Volksmarkt – Klagenfurt East of the A 2 South motorway. The country of Carinthia has been trying for more than 30 years to complete the South motorway, i.e. the A2 within the national border. Despite the strong volume of traffic – this section has a frequency of 30,000 vehicles per day – and a keenly forward planning work, the remaining section between Klagenfurt and the international market has not yet been realized. The planning of the section, which covers 17 kilometres, took place with the involvement of all the municipalities concerned or citizens' initiatives and the concept was presented in September 1994 to the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs for the adoption of the so-called 'Training Regulation'. Due to the extremely heavy transit traffic, the population of the affected section of the Packer Bundesstraße and the Klagenfurt settlement area is faced with an unacceptable noise and pollution burden. There is no doubt that the quality of life, the safety and the liquids of transport and the general economic development in this area are seriously affected. I come from this part of Carinthia and can only testify. The closure of this motorway gap is therefore a top priority from the point of view of transport and economic policy. For this reason, as was already said by Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel on the occasion of a debate with Chief of State Dr. Zernatto and Head of State Dr. Ambrozy as well as Head of State, Ing. Reichhold promised in May 1994 to start building this gap in 1996. In addition, from a labour market perspective, it seems useful and necessary to make public sector infrastructure projects a priority. The race regulation is based on the operation of the economic and transport representative of the country of Carinthia, Mr. Landeshauptmann Deputy Karl Heinz Grasser, since 23. In May 1995 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website The first excavating work is to be started in this year. For further sections, basic disposal procedures or water law negotiations are currently under way. Further calls are to be made in the spring of 1997. The entire section is built by the Austrian street share company. Building supervision for the second section of the Dolina International Market may be carried out by the Federal Road Administration. Federal Minister! So after all the conditions have already been created, the ball is now with you. It is up to you to make the necessary federal resources liquid to carry out the final gap between the south motorway between Vienna and Palermo within the meaning of the affected population along the Packer Bundesstraße.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12236	As the last speaker, Mr Karl Gerfried Müller has now spoken. - Please. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12255	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the closure of the South Motorway in the Klagenfurt – International Market area, a long-term wish of the affected, suffering-tested population will be fulfilled. Above all, the eternal return to debt, as I hope, is now finally over. The Carinthian government has played the ball to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which in turn declared to me at the previous meeting of the Building Committee, as far as I remember, that the country is sparse in planning. The country has, of course, fought again. As I said, There was a constant back and forth. However, the fact is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs needed nine months for the transfer regulation this year, and I am glad that the Ministry of Finance has worked faster and responded to this transfer regulation within five days. The basic termination has been carried out and the tender documents for the first phase of construction have already been issued. The award of the work for the so-called "Grünbrücke Haidach" can take place in January next year, so that construction can actually be started in spring 1997. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This loophole of the motorway network was not only demanded by the population, but by all parties in the country of Carinthia for decades. However, it seems that the beginning of the construction had to be postponed over and over again because of the lack of financing. With the introduction of the road vignette, financing is at least ensured, and the inhabitants of the towns so burdened by traffic can finally re-breath after the realization of this construction project. For them and for many other road users, I think a new period of time begins. The permanent columns that donate day and night through the local areas will soon no longer exist, and the dangers to the children by road traffic, the many serious accidents that occurred there, hopefully belong to the past. On the one hand, this expansion will complete our high-level road network, but it is simply and simply about making the arrainer towns more viable again. In road construction, the development programme will only be fully implemented in 1998. Of the 18 planned projects with a total investment volume of more than 37 billion Schillings, only projects with a construction volume of about 17 billion schillings are ready for tender. It is therefore essential to speed up administrative procedures as well as planning. It must not happen anymore that urgently necessary construction projects, in which even funding is already ensured, are unnecessarily extended by lengthy procedures. The closing point of Klagenfurt – the international market is unfortunately a negative example – although the result is now a positive one – for how long the various stages of the proceedings can take each time. The sufferers are mainly the inhabitants of the affected villages. I hope that, as our initiative provides, an administrative simplification will soon take place, in the form of no neglect of the legitimate concerns of citizens or the interests of the environment. High house! In times when we have to overcome a fad of economics, quick action is more in demand than ever. Every delay costs money and jobs. I voted in favour of the Liberals' motion for a resolution at the beginning of the construction immediately, because the fact cannot be denied that there was already a commitment in 1994 to the immediate start of construction by the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Dr. Schüssel, to the competent members of the Kärntner State Government, and because I expect a minister to say that he is speaking, even though there has now been a change of place. Federal Minister! I hope in the interests of all those concerned that everything will now be done by you so that the gaps promised by all will finally be realized in the fullest and fastest way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12318	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Please take the seats now because we have several votes to take. I shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 347 of the supplements. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request to Mr Eder, Mr Schwimmer and Mr Comrades. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary proposal, then on the part of the amendment concerned and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Members of the Haller and Comrades have submitted an additional request, based on § 1 para. 1 refers. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. The amendment tabled by Mr Eder, Mr Schwimmer and Mr Comrades refers to paragraph 8 of the draft law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this part of the draft law, in the version of the amendment tabled by Mr Eder, Dr. Schwimmer and Mr Comrades, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This amendment was accepted. Finally, I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This part of the Committee's report has been adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at the third reading for this draft to have a corresponding sign of approval. – The draft was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Rosenstingl and others on the prevention of tolls on urban highways. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on the prevention of the double toll as a result of the introduction of the toll picker. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request has not been accepted. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on toll pickerl for vehicles with alternating marks. Those who are in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Rosenstingl and others on the prevention of waste of money and the destruction of the environment by useless Prestige projects (Semmering Tunnel). Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution has been rejected. [[Unrest with the liberals.]] – Perhaps you could leave out the emotions after the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 348 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. This resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 29.) We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Construction to take note of its report in 349 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of taking note of this report, I would ask him to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The report has been adopted by a majority. 10. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (21 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the 1989 Procurement Act (362 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (92 of the Supplements): Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (363 of Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (93 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Bundesgesetzblatt 1996 (BGBlG) (364 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12508	We shall now proceed to items 10 to 12 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. These are the reports of the Constitutional Committee on Government Templates 21 of the Supplements: Federal Act amending the 1989 Procurement Act (362 of the Supplements), 92 of the Supplements: Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (363 of the Supplements), and 93 of the Supplements: Federal Law on the Bundesgesetzblatt 1996 (364 of the Supplements). The report has been abandoned. We can therefore go into the debate immediately. Mr Deputy has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12543	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the Government template 93 of the Supplements, the Federal Law on the Federal Law, we decide an important, an elementary law, important for the population and for us, for the National Council itself. After all, this law defines how our laws are declared. This has worked so far, but certainly a reform, an administrative reform, a rationalization is appropriate for a number of reasons. Firstly, the clarity, the visibility, the ease of use by a separation in a first, second and third parts is increasing. Of course, there are cost savings for lawmakers, from journalists to lawyers to local authorities, for example, Austrian state printing also has a legal basis to use electronic means, and there are many other improvements. Ladies and gentlemen! It is positive that we will take a unanimous decision here, as well as in the Constitutional Committee. The greens have missed. However, I assume that the Greens will also give their approval to this proposal. But a small price was to be paid for this unanimity. The FPÖ has made partout the template a little cumbersome, a little comprehensible, because in § 2 para. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "General Regulations" in parentheses was the word "rejections". Ladies and gentlemen! "Instruction" here is to be understood as a pair of terms by regulation, i.e. as an administrative regulation, as a provision, as a service instruction. This is a historically grown pair of concepts. The separation, the removal brings ambiguity. The motive is also unclear; it is unknown to me. There cannot be new torments for students of law. But in the case of a weighing of goods, it has made sense to accept this small dissatisfaction in order to achieve the unanimous decision of this important matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Another aspect. The separation law – regulation – state contracts in parts one, two and three – now roughly simplified – relativizes the complaints regarding the flood of law and makes it transparent that not even a quarter of the pages published in the federal law paper contain laws. Some 44 percent are regulations, around 30 percent state agreements and the rest are other statements. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also populist lay players who complain of the flood of law, and – I see that this is how it comes to an end of the obscene "union against the flood of law" because one can no longer make headlines with false, spectacular numbers. I therefore propose that today, on the occasion of this legislative decision, this "union against the flood of laws" should be dissolved; as a liquidator, Mr Frieser is pressing straight ahead. Ladies and gentlemen! General and final: Laws do not depend on the number of pages, but on the quality, costs and follow-up costs, and ultimately on whether the laws form the basis for high employment in Austria, for social justice and for respect for all the people who live in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12600	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Please, ladies and gentlemen. They are satisfied with a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12615	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We too are pleased by the ÖVP that we are finally adopting the Federal Law on the Federal Law, and I am particularly pleased that this law will be approved by all five parties represented here in Parliament. This is at least once a sign that reason can also prevail in this House. The recasting of this federal law has several advantages, which has already been mentioned in the Committee. It is the first one that will be cheaper in production, and the second, it will also be cheaper for those involved. And I would like to stress one particular point as someone who comes from the legal profession: the expectation that the redefinition of the federal law paper is also reflected in the costs for the referee. But above all, the archiving of the federal law paper will also be easier for us in the future. As a third positive element in this law, I would like to point out that this law is a contribution, although a tiny one, to debureaucratisation and also a step, if in turn, a very, very small one, towards New Public Management. Ladies and gentlemen! We all permanently use the keywords "slender administration", "debureaucratisation", "deregulation". We must note, however, that the cause of over-bureaucratisation, for overregulation in truth, is our laws. This is not only attested by officials, but also by the Constitutional Court. We are therefore all called upon to adopt only truly necessary laws, only understandable laws and, as far as possible, cost-effective laws. Now to you, Mr. Herb. You have once again expressed yourself on a topic of which you do not understand anything, or to an association you have not informed yourself about. If you were a little more competent, I'd invite you to join this association. But unfortunately this is not the case. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The aim of this association is precisely to enable or provide assistance to high-quality laws. A member of this association is Professor Ruth Vodak. She's Linguist. "Linguist" means a language scientist and has nothing to do with Italian noodles. Professor Ruth Vodak has been awarded the Wittgenstein Prize. She is a scientist who has also gained special reputation by comprehensiblely formulating legislative texts. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] But you should be among those who understand all the laws. If you are really so good, I would recommend that you assist the Professor and President Fischer in finally formulating the rental law in such a way that everyone understands it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12676	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Stadler. Please, honourable Member. You also want to get out with 5 minutes of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12691	Mr President. High house! The three legislative instruments which are now in place for decision-making in the National Council are indeed – and this has resulted from the debate in the Committee, Mr State Secretary – indisputable materials. I therefore do not understand why we are now keenly trying to construct any dissonances and divergences by means of a debate contribution. A discussion in the Committee will probably still be allowed, and the Committee's debate... [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: But also in plenary!]] Of course! But do not try to enrich your inconsistency by removing any resistance from the opposition parties or from the other groups of the House that were not present at all. The principle is that there should be a substantial debate in the Committee. This has been done, and the political groups have agreed on a joint decision-making of this incontrovertible matter and have agreed to the proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would like to take today's day and the fact that we are today taking a decision on the Federal Law Law Law, on the occasion of the 30th anniversary. ==References== Today, just 78 years ago, the Republic of Austria made the first decisive legislative act of its history: the decision to set up the Provisional National Assembly, which was a parliamentary forerunner of today's National Council. Not least because of this, the Austrian National Council is also called "National Council". This decision of the Provisional National Assembly, which at the time exercised the supreme power in the State and took the act of establishment, was announced in the State Law No. The state law paper was known as the precursor publication body of our federal law paper. At that time, it was also established that the state power of the Republic of Austria – at that time still German Austria – should be divided into a force exercised by the State Council of the Republic of Germany-Austria, which was initially called the Committee of Enforcement, and a legislative force exercised by the Provisional National Assembly. This decision was adopted by the National Provisional Assembly as a decision to set up the State. October 1918 was not taken here in the house, because in this House the representatives who had been sworn to the emperor have still spoken, but – and this is also seen as a federalist act in the founding of our Republic – in the hall of the Lower Austrian Landtag in the Herrengasse in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is appropriate to remember this state-founding act today. I regret that today no one in the official state – in the official state cult, so to speak, the other states knows God to celebrate much more extensive – this founding act of 30. In October 1918, a little more attention was paid to the opportunity to refer to this first rally in a publication body of the Republic of Austria. For us, the freeman should be 30. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12732	There's no one left to speak. The debate is therefore closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. - I ask you to take the seats. I shall first vote on the draft federal law amending the tendering law, together with the title and receipt in 362 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a corresponding sign. – This draft law has been adopted unanimously. We come to the third reading at the same time. I would also ask for a sign of approval in this case. The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the draft Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, together with the title and entry into 363 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it in the sense of § 82 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council specify the presence required for the vote of the constitutional number of Members. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give a positive sign. – This draft has been adopted unanimously. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their assent at third reading to this draft to give a sign. The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. I now vote on the draft federal law on the Federal Law of 1996 and the title and receipt in 364 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, who give their approval to this draft law may announce this by means of a sign. – This draft has been adopted unanimously. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may make this known by a sign. The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 13. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (310 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Law on the Hygiene of Baths (388 of Supplements) 14. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (313 of Supplements): Federal Law on Medical Devices (MPG) (389 of Supplements) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 157/A (E) by Mr Mag. Reinhard Firlingenrund comrades concerning feed bans for animal and bone meal in food production (390 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12848	We now come to points 13 to 15 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. These are: Reports of the Health Committee on the Government Template 310 of the Supplements: Federal Law amending the Law on the Hygiene of Baths (388 of Supplements), Government bill 313 of the Supplements: Medical Technology Act (389 of the Supplements) as well as application 157/A (E) of Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades concerning feed bans on animal and bone meal in food production (390 of the supplements). Does anyone want to report? – Mr Schuster has reported on the report. – Deputies! I would ask you to return your report on item 13 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12869	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I will report to the Committee on Health on the Government template 310 of the supplements: Federal Law amending the Law on the Hygiene of Baths. The accession of Austria to the European Union requires an adaptation to the EU's legal situation in bathing hygiene law. This Directive should be transposed into national law. I should also like to make the following corrections to the Committee's report in 388 of the supplements relating to the Bathing Hygiene Act. ==References== Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be replaced by the following: "In addition, costs for purchasing at least one secci disk (cost approximately 3 500 S), a portable pH meter (cost approximately 9 000 S) and a portable oxygen measuring instrument (cost approximately 10 000 S) per sampler or state-owned bacteriological-serological research facility are to be expected. On the basis of the fact that each State should have two of the above equipment (one replacement device each), each bacteriologically-serologically-serological research body shall be charged with the purchase costs of approximately 270 000 S. These requirements have already been taken into account in the 1997 budget." On page 12 in paragraph 20 § 15 para. In the last line, 3 it does not have to say "the minimum duration of the test operation" but "the minimum duration of the test operation". On page 12 in paragraph 20 § 15 para. In the previous line, it does not have to say "such as floccinants, disinfectants or pH-value adjustment" but "such as floculation agents, disinfectants or pH-value-adjustments". [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] On page 13 in paragraph 26 Section 14 para. In the previous line, 4 it does not have "a permit of the secondary device", but "a permit as a secondary device". As a result of its negotiations, the Health Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft legislation attached to the written committee report, taking into account the newly referenced print error correction. Mr President. I would ask you to call the speakers on this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12924	I have not known at all that a correction can bring about so much happiness. – Mr rapporteur! Thank you very much for your remarks. The oral reporting to points 14 and 15 has been abandoned. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. As the first speaker, Mr Pumberger spoke. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12954	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I now had the impression that the rapporteur not only made a print error correction, but also, in part, a supplement. – I don't think I've been questioned. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Aviso on today's agenda had originally planned much more agenda items for the Health Block. But then, on the one hand, the consumer report has already been dealt with in the Health Committee and, on the other hand, as I have said today, the treatment of equal numbers of applications relating to labelling requirements of genetically modified organisms has been postponed and cancelled, without allowing for a debate on them. There are now three items left on the agenda. One of them concerns the bath hygiene law. This is an adaptation to EU Directive 76/160/EEC. It is primarily about the introduction of microbiological, physical and chemical parameters for surface waters. The review of the water quality of whirlpools, i.e. hot water sprinklers, small baths and, in accordance with an additional request from the coalition parties, hot air and steam baths is incorporated into the law. I welcome this directive on the protection of swimmers from infections or other health damage. It is positive not only for health but also for tourism, in which there are really biggest problems in Austria. If we can ensure that bathing water quality is achieved through the co-approval of this law, we will, as I think, take an essential step towards speeding up our underground tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The various responsibilities are to be criticised by this law. If, for example, bathing water quality is found to be not in order in one area, the health authority will first be informed, namely the district headquarters. This in turn imposes a ban on bathing in the worst case. It does not, however, have the right to make the bathing water rehabilitated accordingly. The water law authority, i.e. the head of state, must be used to do this. It must be called upon to ensure that the water is put in order. Moreover, bathing water quality depends not only on certain criteria, but also on waste water, the introduction of wastewater, the diffuse entries by agriculture and so on, so that agriculture must also be considered. With this in mind, it would be necessary to require that cooperation between the various sectors is really better and more unbureaucratic. This would be desirable in order to ensure rapid and unbureaucratic rehabilitation of bathing waters that may be contaminated, contaminated and which do not comply with the EU directive. The next point concerns the Medical Products Act. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a little different. This Medical Equipment Act essentially replaces the Health Protection Act. This has eight paragraphs that are fixed on one and a half pages. Now it is replaced by this convolut. However, the government template already covers 117 paragraphs in the first article! . I am surprised that Mrs Frieser has not yet complained about the fact that there is a new bloating of a legal matter here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, improved quality assurance for medical products is to be welcomed. All products used in medicine – from injection needles to large devices, such as Gamma Knife – are very difficult. There will now be a division into five groups, and cross-group articles will be demonstrated by the Minister's authorisation of regulation on one issue or another, with injustices again. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, this law regulates a matter far beyond the EU directive. The EU directive does not demand as much as we do in Austria as we do once again as we do! – It could be said: That's good, there can never be enough safety in medical products! – But we also have to think about manufacturers and producers. In Austria, hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises have a significant competitive disadvantage over producers in other EU countries due to these strict requirements. Therefore, this law is a serious disadvantage for our small and medium-sized enterprises that manufacture medical devices. It is really not necessary for us to decide today on such an inflated government template far beyond the EU directive. Very strange in this law are the 29 regulatory powers. These powers for the Minister are very far-reaching and completely unusual. The executive is left with a lot of discretion. These powers of regulation will not be subject to direct parliamentary control either. – I believe that all of this is not necessarily necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to criticise a little more. If a medical product is authorised in an EEA country, its placing on the market must be tolerated in any other country. This may result in a manufacturer from the Federal Republic of Germany having the so-called conformity assessment carried out in Portugal and then selling the product in the Federal Republic and in Austria, which we must tolerate. This can lead to serious difficulties in one case or another, if we are no longer able to guarantee a national authorisation or are no longer able to carry out it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that this is an inflated legislative matter, which contains far too many, namely 29 regulatory empowerments. The law goes far beyond the EU directives laid down by the European Union. This is to the detriment of domestic producers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Austria must also tolerate the placing on the market of products once authorised in an EU Member State and cannot require national authorisation. Because of these many negative points, we will not give this law the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13020	The next speaker is Mrs Onodi. - Please, you have the floor. 3 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13042	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The term "medicine product" is relatively new and includes a lot of products. Many of them belong to our everyday lives, such as glasses, bandages or fever thermometers. However, their main field of application is the medical devices in the outpatient and stationary medical care. The field of medical devices has so far not been very clearly regulated in Austria. The current regulation for medical devices now creates legal certainty in an essential area and is therefore of major importance for the entire medical complex. Medical devices and medical research are also valid in an increasingly international area, wherever they are available. The present government template provides for an adaptation to European standards such as international agreements. This does not only seem economically meaningful, but is also desirable in terms of the quality assurance component for every user of these products. Ladies and gentlemen! The field of medical devices is characterized by a huge development dynamics. In an increasingly short period of time, new and constantly refined technologies find their way from technological development to testing in the field of top medicine to broad application in daily medical life. Therefore, an important part of this draft regulates the conditions and conduct of clinical trials. Clinical research with medical products must meet particularly high medical, ethical and legal requirements as research in humans. Innovation phases and experiments are always at some risk. Therefore, the protection of experimental subjects must be of the highest priority. The rules concerning the planning and implementation of the study and its scientific capacity and review are also very closely linked to the protection of the subjects, and the regulation that a clinical examination of a medical device may be carried out only if the evaluation by an ethics committee has been carried out before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13085	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). But since he is not in the hall, this word message cannot take place. I therefore call on Mr Leiner. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13109	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! About 400,000 medical devices, ranging from staples to heart pacemakers, heart lung machines and gamma Knife, are subject to very high quality controls in this law. It is particularly important for these devices to be subject to high quality control. I really do give Mr Pumberger a right when he says there are too many responsibilities that should be better coordinated and the bureaucracy should be reduced somewhat. I believe and hope that the Minister will also assert her influence in this area. It is right and useful to introduce a minimum standard for such products throughout Europe, especially because our country is too small to produce or test sophisticated and specialized medical devices. For some devices, such as computer tomographs, gammaknives and so on, even Europe is a small market. The Austrian law, which has already been mentioned, goes far beyond the EU directives, and this, of course, already poses certain problems. For example, medical devices consultants are only anchored in German and Austrian law. These medical devices consultants have already taken initiatives in Germany and set up their own association there and enable their own training, which naturally leads to additional costs. We don't want that in Austria. The qualification of the Austrian medical devices consultants is reserved for a separate regulation. So everything is still possible in this area. I would also like to say a few words about Dr. Pumberger. The many regulatory empowerments – 29 they are! – also make me a parliamentarian problem. This is a way of passing Parliament's decisions in this way! The Minister is therefore called upon to address the problem with a great deal of attention and to use the empowerment within the meaning of our economy and of the patient. Mrs. Minister! I am firmly convinced that you will do so. Remember – that has already been said – that the structure of the domestic medical product trade consists of 87 percent small businesses with up to ten employees. The implementation of this law already entails considerable additional costs for these companies. At least 60 percent require quality management certification. An important factor for the medical product trade is the constant availability of the equipment and therefore also the availability of a trained service on site. Because it would be very expensive to deal with interference caused by trans-regional service networks and associated with waiting times, so that for many applications, especially in intensive medicine, very expensive second devices would be necessary. All appropriate measures should therefore be taken in such a way as to preserve the small-scale structures of medical product dealers in Austria. Furthermore, the Federal Law, which amends the Law on the Hygiene of the Baths, takes medical-hygienic measures to protect the health of the Baths. Its own health and the population is only a small part of fate. Health is essentially something to be molded. Each individual can contribute in his or her self-responsibilities. In an analogy, we are called on as politicians to shape the best conditions for good health of the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also the case with this novel, which is a quality improvement for the health of our people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13170	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speaking time: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13191	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== I referred to the lack of sterilisation conditions of some TKV plants within the EU in the context of a request to the Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection on May 1996. As I did at the time, plants that work without pressure and dry heat are not suitable to kill the BSE pathogen and other germs, especially heat-resistant spores, such as spleen spores or clostrides, really enough. However, such installations are legally operational until today due to the lax EU legislation and lax handling within the EU, as they were specifically practiced in 1992. It cannot be ruled out that contaminated products from such plants also come to us in Austria. In order to prevent pathogens from entering the food chain of our pets through poor sterilisation, I asked the Minister of the State whether she would consider import restrictions on such products from defective TKV plants. – The then reply of the Federal Minister was roughly as vague and unsatisfying as today in the requested ban on imports of genetically modified soya. At the time, she replied: "As animal meals and fats are products subject to harmonisation through appropriate EU rules, the European Commission is responsible for the authorisation or restriction of import as well as for the control of third country farms." She also said: "If, however, there were to be a need to impose further restrictions for health reasons and for the protection of the Austrian population or the Austrian animal population, the Ministry of Health would provide additional measures in accordance with Sections 2c and 5 para. 1 of the animal disease law." Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to read the entire text of the answer any more. However, what fatal consequences such insufficiently heated and sterilized feed can have, the BSE crisis has shown us due to the BSE epidemic in Great Britain. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can be glad that in Austria we have a high standard in animal health laws and also in the legal provisions relating to our TKV plants. The Austrian animal body recycling plants have a very high hygienic standard and are subject to a very excellent control, with a control of the plant and also the feed batch heated there by means of a pressure pen, by means of temperature pen and due to the duration of heating. In addition, a product control is carried out by additional examination of the animal fat or animal meal produced at the research institutes to see if any disease germs could still be present. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the high hygiene standard in our TKV plants and the feeding ban on animal and bone meal – I really must thank the Federal Minister for her excellent response at the time – BSE in Austria has been no problem until now. I therefore hope to be able to eliminate the last residual risk by this resolution on a ban on animal and bone meal from low-hygiene TKV plants. This decision is certainly also in the interests of our domestic agriculture, in particular animal production. That is why we fully support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13242	Mrs Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13264	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law on bathing hygiene is a necessary adaptation to the EU's legal situation. The innovation includes indicative values, so-called limit values, for swimming in surface waters – according to microbiological, physical and chemical parameters. As this law also causes costs estimated for 1997 at 3.4 million schillings for the first time and will subsequently amount to 3.1 million annually, I hope that these costs, at least for 1997, have been taken into account in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! As in the Committee, we are voting in favour of both the law and the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Guggenberger and Dr. Leiner. Section 14 para. 3 C. However, I would like to make 17 amendments which include a further procedure. ==References== The amendment tabled to the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection by Mr Guggenberger/Leiner is a step which is also in line with our intentions. In accordance with § 212 of the Industrial Code, in addition to health experts, civil engineers of relevant fields or chemical laboratories may be entrusted with sampling and laboratory analysis by the owner of a bathing facility. Paradox, however, is that a civil engineer who is entitled to examine, analyse and assess the usefulness of drinking water under § 50 of the Food Law is not entitled to draw up an opinion on the quality of water that is only used for bathing and showers. [[Abg. May. Peter: Unheard!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think something has to happen. Our criticism is certainly appropriate. We do not see why these civil engineers – including private companies and initiatives that may be active in the drinking water sector – are being affected by hygiene specialists. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the government's medical device law, it is noted that in the future, each manufacturer of medical products in the EU will be able to carry out the conformity assessment, the so-called EURO authorisation, and also place his product on the market, in an appropriate place of his choice. In contrast to the chair of the Liberal Group, we consider this to be positive; my colleague, Dr Gredler, will address it even more closely. The vast variety of production and dynamics in this area, it is known, require labelling of these goods; my predecessors have already explained this in detail. A criticism is, I have already put it in committee, that this law constitutes a sample of laws. The question may be whether a new law should include such a level of legislation, especially as the European Union has fewer rules for its relevant rules. Mr Leiner! Did I not understand you correctly now or in the committee? They believed that this law could also have a role model. I would like to say once again: I do not think that a law-making process should be used as a model. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: There are security instruments in there!]] However, I believe that it is a bloating issue, which is why I also do not reject the criticism of the medical board as you have expressed it to me in the Committee on Health. Then: It is worth considering that in the future many medical devices are to be transferred to industry in relation to their suitability testing. I also believe that, for example, patches, associations et cetera, therefore simpler medical devices, should be excluded from the precise documentation obligation, as this would require a huge increase in the amount of control. It should be noted that there is a need for monitoring. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite this criticism, we agree with the law, because for us the benefits outweigh. For example, the competitive advantage of a uniform quality certification on the world market opens up new perspectives that we do not want to shut down. Finally, I would like to refer to the Firlinger/Motter resolution on the prohibition of feeding on animal and bone meal in food production. This application was made in April 1996 and is therefore no longer up-to-date in this form. However, I am very glad that this is no longer the reason for a new five-party request. My previous speakers have already explained this in detail, and we are happy to give this request our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13360	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13384	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High Committee! First of all, I would like to refer to the amendment to the Bath Hygiene Act introduced by Mrs Motter. I believe that he is a very useful complement to the present legislative text, and he is in line with its content, as Mrs Motter, in her amendment, has put it to the vote by our group. I would like to add to the Bath Hygiene Act: As in the Committee, I am still not convinced that the information at that time was correct. I agree with this bathing hygiene law only under those conditions which are included in the report of the Health Committee: namely, subject to the cost-effectiveness of 3.5 million schilling in the first year and 3 million schilling in the following years. In the Committee, I was supported by the fact that, in the examination procedure on this law on bathing hygiene, only the country of Lower Austria has referred to the same number of bathing establishments affected by this law as would be useful to examine, as they are now adopted as a basis for the entire Republic of Austria. If we also consider that this bath hygiene law has been extended to include two other areas, sauna facilities, especially hot air and steam baths, I believe parliamentarians, whom we are equipped with the budgetary authority, should not be concerned whether this cost question is dealt with in an superficial way. I hope that the fear that these figures could not be kept and that additional costs would grow will not occur. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would be grateful if, in a brief speech, you would give an opinion on these concerns which I have raised in committee, perhaps with specific figures, on the cost-covering question, also on the extension of the bathing hygiene law which the Committee has made. The medical device law concerning my group has a different attitude. Mrs Motter said that for her and her group, the new quality mark to be created is so dominantly positive that, compared to the inflated legislative work with 29 regulatory powers for the Federal Minister, who can now be fulfilled, she considers the benefits and the safety of the products to be the priority. I would like to point out to my group that this quality seal allocation is a difficult matter. Although more primitive medical goods will be subjected to a simple process of quality proof, in the case of more complex and technically complex devices – from sonographs, arthroscopic devices, operating tables, automatic drug distributors and large-scale devices – it will no longer be possible for the inspection standards to differ from those companies that dominate the world market and their lobbys. It will therefore be the almost only procedure and the small, today quite successful and innovative co-operators will suffer enormous disadvantages in this sector. This qualification – in accordance with the EU rules in various qualification classes and for the respective processing steps – can also be demonstrated differently from the cost of additional evidence, so that small suppliers are forced to adapt to the large companies and a single market in medical products is created here. Especially for innovative small suppliers who have created a market niche due to the individual demands made on large-scale equipment, this is a decisive disadvantage. This is also a huge disadvantage for the quality of life of patients affected by it who need to use these standard products, products that are exclusively standardized and no longer individually adapted. Despite all the good intentions underlying this law, I therefore remain in my decision to reject the law – even because from my point of view its implementation is flawed, flawed and too bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13435	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13457	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my colleague, Mr President, who has clearly stated that the basic intensification of this law is true. We're going one step further: We believe that this Medical Products Act brings more safety to patients and consumers, and thus overall greater legal certainty. The criticism of the Freedom Party, for example on the question of the authorisation of a regulation, cannot in any way be joined. We believe that it is precisely this regulatory authority that can react to the market and that clear decisions can be made by the competent Federal Minister. Nor do we believe that the argument is correct that this law goes far beyond the EU directives and would therefore be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! We are very glad that this law goes a step further because it helps us to fight people and companies that we simply call as consumer protectionists. I have allowed myself to bring you some documents from our customer traffic, for example the report of a patient who is being cared for by an above Austrian doctor who sells her gemstone chains at the price of 4,000 s, with the aim of curing her cancer. What does this law bring us? – This law enables us to actively combat – in the third section, in the field of advertising for medical devices – these galeries, regardless of whether they are committed by doctors or traders. Such a possibility has so far been lacking. Let me give you another example. I have here a magnetic ceiling at the price of 4 300 s, which is sold to pensioners on advertising trips in Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, in the European area. [[The speaker shows a ceiling]] The healing is promised by – I allow myself to read the list of sufferings here – allergies, general weakness, Angina Spectoris, disease Beggarew, scar pain, neuralgia, rheumation, vegetative disorders, cellulitis, Ischias, Herpes, heart problems. – This ceiling is currently being sold as a medical product. Through this law, we have for the first time the opportunity to take active action – namely administrative criminal law, but also competition law through serious providers. We are therefore very glad that this law is now coming into force, and our group or coalition is fully committed to these provisions because these provisions help Austrian patients and consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13508	Mr Schuster is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13529	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The agenda item 15 of today's sitting deals with the report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the request from Members of the European Parliament. Reinhard Firlingenrund comrades concerning feed bans for animal and bone meal in food production. Mr Motter, Member of the Liberal Forum, pointed out that this request had already been made in April of this year, on grounds of topicality. Much has changed in the meantime, and this request has therefore been withdrawn, which was not quite easy in the Committee because the first signatory was not present. But now there is a five-party request on this subject. I can now put the following request into the discussion: Request Mr Schuster, Mr Onodi and Mr colleagues, on the rejection of the motion for a resolution157/A(E) by Mr Mag. Reinhard Firlingenrund Comrades concerning the prohibition of feeding for animal and bone meal in food production (390 of the supplements) (point 15 of the National Council agenda) to the Health Committee pursuant to § 53 para. 6 C. 2 GOG. The National Council wants to decide: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Reinhard Firlingenrund Comrades concerning the prohibition of feeding for animal and bone meal in food production (390 of the supplements) (point 15 of the National Council agenda) is hereby amended in accordance with § 53 para. 6 C. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council referred again to the Health Committee.' At the time, there was a very turbulent situation in the Committee, there were several votes, misbehaviors and more. We believe that this issue will be discussed again at the next meeting of the Health Committee, and I hope that the five-party proposal, as my previous speakers have announced, will in any case be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13592	Mrs Gredler has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen. No voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13613	Mr President. Minister! High house! For the first time, for animal or carcass meal feeding: This corresponds to a feeding of vultures rather than a feeding of normal animals. I believe, however, that the initiative taken by the Liberals will now lead to a reasonable regulation. The major problem, however, is the growth promoters in animal feeding, namely antibiotics. Antibiotics cause our consumers serious concern because they generate resistance that can lead to death. If this goes on, it will soon be impossible to use antibiotics in intensive medicine if one continues to tolerate that these so-called growth promoters, i.e. antibiotics, are fed to chickens, for example. In principle, it should be noted that animals are entitled to animal feed. A labyrinth has been created to the Federal Law on Medical Devices: The Millimetres of associations must be strictly observed. How do you want to check that out? – Whether you come to the right number of millimeters or not depends on the train and pressure you exercise. However, I do not know any surgeon who puts exactly one cut on the millimeter to be able to establish an association, which is why I think it is a nonsense to try to create an overregulation. Mrs Motter has already said that some of these rules should be excluded. The European Medicines Agency, which has recently been established, also has the meaning of achieving product conformity and facilitating the authorisation procedure. I believe that a very good solution has been found in the sense of Austrian and European consumers. What I miss is that in § 3 para. 8 has not pointed out the voluntaryity, it will only be clarified later, where under § 49 para. 4 a withdrawal from a study at any time without adverse consequences. However, it is forgotten that in a study one can also administer medications that one must "screw out" because otherwise they can lead to grosser disasters – up to the patient's heart attack – which is why, as it stands inside, it is certainly not applicable. As the last point to the Bath Hygiene Act: I must say that this late adjustment has come about because it has been negotiated in the EU Treaty, which has led to a serious disadvantage. A list of the 3 000 purest bathing areas in Europe has been published for the first time this year. Austria was not represented. These 3 000 places, of course, have been advertising with their water quality or the purity of their beaches, and the Austrian towns have been excluded from it. Our tourism organisations have therefore not had the opportunity to point out that in Austria there are quite paradisiacal conditions which could be praised to attract people from European countries to Austria. I think something has been missed, so it was high time that this adjustment had come. If we had had them before, some hoteler might not have come to that Bredouille that had been given in this year. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] With regard to the quality of swimming pools, I can only point out that the water prunes taken from the swimming pools do not say anything about the actual quality of the water. I attended a diving course in Austria and was to be found for a month at minus three meters. You can't imagine how cruel it is when hairbrush and other horrors pass by you that you saw the day before. I would recommend to these water inspectors to sit three meters below the water surface and pull their bells there.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13670	Mrs Buder has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13692	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has referred to the Bade Hygiene Act – it is true that it is a late adaptation, because the implementation of the Council Directive of 8 June 1989 on the approximation of the laws of the Member 12. 1975 makes it necessary to amend the current law on bathing hygiene in order to adapt it to the EU's legal situation. During the accession negotiations, Austria became a deadline for the renewal of bathing hygiene. 12. 1996 and this period is now being observed. The new Bath Hygiene Act sets out certain quality requirements, measurement and testing methods for the protection of bathing against infections and other health damage, as well as for the preservation and improvement of bathing water quality. By amending the EU Directive in Austrian law, the scope of the Bath Hygiene Act – so far restricted to indoor pools, artificial outdoor pools, baths in surface waters and sauna facilities – is also extended to hot-driving pools, small baths and bathing areas in bathing waters, as well as to hot-air and steam baths in the health committee with the amendment request of Mr Onodi and Dr Leiner. Moreover, the implementation of this Directive naturally ensures that bathing sites meet certain minimum requirements. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk briefly about the extended scope of application: This is extended to baths and bathing areas in surface waters and to small baths. A minimum degree of hygienic requirements regarding the characteristics and operation of hot-driving pools is specified as regards the heat-driving pool baths. The specification regarding the hot spray baths has become necessary, because the highest potential risk by transferring pathogens in baths is derived from these small-room warm basins. The population and tourists benefit equally from good water quality in swimming, which is extremely important for a country like Austria, which can, with pride, point to its clean rivers and lakes and thus also advertises in tourism. If my previous speaker is already talking about paradisiacal conditions, I believe that in Europe we know very well how our rivers and lakes are ordered. Compared to the EU, we have for the first time reporting obligations for the 1997 bathing season. Reporting can only be carried out if the report is sent to the Ministry of Health by the countries six weeks after the end of the bathing season. The first test has to be carried out at the beginning of June and six studies are planned. It has also been discussed about the costs: They amount to over 3 million schilling a year. Although the 1997 budget has already been decided, this amount will be increased by re-implementation in the budget. Of course, additional devices are also necessary for testing. The 1997 budget provides for 270 000 S. Countries shall not incur any additional costs other than the cost of reporting. I believe that the money for the cost of the trials is better placed than if one has to pay follow-up costs, which then apply to the healing of diseases. Of course, this law also provides for penalties for non-compliance with the provisions or for non-compliance with the required permits. They go up to a height of 100 000 S. If a serious risk to life or health of persons has arisen due to such an infringement, or if the perpetrator has already been punished twice in accordance with these provisions and if there is a criminal offence, fines up to 300 000 S are provided. I hope, however, that there will be no criminal offence. I believe that the present government proposal, which amends the Baths Hygiene Act, will make another essential contribution towards health care, and I hope that all the political groups in this House will agree to this law. Unfortunately, we cannot accept the amendment tabled by Mrs Motter for health reasons, because the risk of infection in bathing water is considerably greater and more diverse: Just remember that the infections can also get into the lungs over the nose and over the skin. That is why we cannot accept this request. [[Abg. Mother: What about drinking water?]] The amendment tabled by Mr Onodi, Dr Leiner, in the Committee on Health, has already made an extension of the assessment bodies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13729	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13751	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! With the Medical Products Act, we have a law that concludes a further gap in the transposition of EU directives into national law. Although this legislation has been considered critical, it is still a work in the final effect that goes far beyond the EU directives, which can and will work very well across Europe. It has been taken into account all the problems, and our law is very far ahead of the law adopted in Germany about two years ago. It is certainly a lot more extensive, yet I think that we have learned from the process in Germany and avoided sources of errors. Some important positive and critical points have already been discussed in advance in the discussion. I do not want to extend the discussion on this law. In the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there was a very detailed discussion on how this committee always has very detailed discussions. We will vote in favour of this law by the ÖVP, but we know that an adjustment or further improvement will still need an active monitoring and observation. – Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13786	Mrs Pittermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13807	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In addition to the pharmaceutical industry, we know another highly expanding industry, namely the medical engineering industry. The medical and technical developments of the last 50 years are of course for us. I remember: In my early childhood I still saw many war invalids with primitive wooden prostheses. What technical miracles, on the other hand, are today’s prostheses! Renal function can be replaced by dialysis, heart and lung function by the cardiac clotting machine, which allows many heart operations first. Stem cells are obtained by means of cell separators and save bone marrow withdrawals, with endoscopes we can investigate the body's interior and perform minimally invasive surgery. If 50 years ago mask anesthesia with aether and extremely unpleasant high radiation X-ray X-ray examinations were standard, we now have anesthesia and surveillance devices that allow gentle anesthesia in high-risk patients, and with little straining, high-resolution imaging procedures that we could only dream of recently. The use of lens implants, joint implants, vascular implants, balloon dilations and infusion pumps is natural today. For reasons of time, I'll save you more additions. However, this diversity shows the importance of ensuring the quality of medical products. I therefore welcome this law, which guarantees this security and creates EU conformity. The possibilities of giving people a longer and better quality life through medical devices are fascinating. Nevertheless, we should not forget something very essential: For the benefit of the sick, human attention and conversation are also extremely important. Unfortunately, hospitalists are more prepared for technical than human investment. Appliances are granted rather if this allows for an unnecessary increase in personnel or a possible savings in personnel. The medical practitioners are concerned that, under the pressure of the ever greater possibilities of treating severe diseases in ever shorter periods, in increasing administrative and documentation obligations, humanity and the training of the disciples remain on the road. Even today, studies show that hospital patients have the most contact with the cleaning staff. As an opponent of a two-class medicine, I wish that every patient will find the level of human use he needs, and not only the private and prominent patient. Profits from corporations and shareholders are important, but they must not become an idol of politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The speechlessness and de-olidarization of society are moaning signs. Let us always put people with their needs, desires and concerns at the centre of our reflections and actions! This law, with its protection of quality, has a share in it. However, we also promote human quality with the same use!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13875	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13896	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I give Mrs. Pittermann right when she says that people in medicine and healing need more attention. The fact is, however, that the use of medical facilities and aids has achieved a tremendous increase in citizens' life expectancy in Austria. Like many areas of life, one can also be of different opinion on the Medical Products Act. It was said here that this law actually goes too far and goes far beyond EU standards. That's right. This is certainly a disadvantage for manufacturers. In my opinion, however, it is an advantage for consumers, and people's health is more important to us on this issue. That is why we will agree to this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not normally belong to those who support a breach of EU standards, especially when it comes to competition for our economy. Our economy will have more disadvantages under this law. Nevertheless, I believe that we have taken the right course. We are also discussing today a motion for a resolution on the prohibition of feeding on animal and bone meal. It has been said that the situation has changed and we have gained new insights. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that: The Committee has presented this request to us by Mr Motter and Mr Firlinger. However, after Mr Firlinger was on his way from his group to the Paradise of the Freeman, this request could not be further discussed and implemented. He could not be withdrawn either because Mr Firlinger is not represented in the other group in the Committee on Health. That's embarrassing. But I can't help it. That is why, under not very professional chairmanship, we have to say that once again, there have been some voting turbulences. This is the result of the fact that we are discussing this request today, where we can do so unhindered. Let me now make a few remarks: First: All experts, and last but not least Professor Dr. Franz Lettner, an internationally recognized specialist, say that the feeding of animal flour and bone flour is in truth nothing dangerous or serious. On the contrary: This supports the natural cycle. This is fully borne and recommended by science, but with the requirement that animal and bone meal, especially animal meal, should not be fed to ruminants. There is a ban on this in Austria. This is a positive thing, and I believe that we will also be guided by it, even if Mr Gredler says that in animal and bone meal she sees the problem that hormones and antibiotics are included in it. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: I didn't say that!]] Mrs. Dr. Gredler! That's not true. You can learn about the production of animal flour and its labelling! You will see that there are no problems in this area. If you think an animal has a right to animal feed, I'll give you the right. But we really have no problems in this area. On the contrary: It is said that the feeding of animal meal in the way we produce it in Austria – and I am always in favour of strict specifications – has led to a positive development throughout production. Even on meat quality, there is in no way only nearly dubious negative effects. That's to be said! I think we need to talk about it. The fact is that animal meal was raised in connection with BSE. How did it come about? – In England, animal meal was fed by sick sheep to ruminants. This was a capital mistake that Austrian farmers today have not least to pay with huge income losses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] This has happened, Mr Haigermoser! I also think that our Minister may. In the last meeting of the Council of Ministers of Agriculture, Mr Molterer bravely suggested that all BSE-damaged farms should receive a corresponding charge. I hope that the 'polluter country' will also be diverted as soon as possible and that we will come to reasonable solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, because it is the better request, because it calls on both the relevant ministries – both for health and consumer protection and for agriculture and forestry – to act. That is right, because all the other applications before that were made only for topical reasons and not for material content. So since we have the better proposal, we will also agree with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13952	Mr Wabl has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13973	Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I am speaking to you, Mrs Van der Steiermark. However, I am not talking about the flood of law and the terrible, unreadable texts of law that you do not understand and that people do not understand outside. I would like to make a brief comment on this wonderful request by the former Liberal Mr Firlinger. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: He's still a Liberal, he says!]] Aha, he's still a liberal! . I would also like to focus briefly on the comments made by my previous speaker, which I believe are very misunderstandings. As a matter of fact, it is true when Mr Donabauer believes that the feeding of animal meal in itself corresponds to the circular economy. Of course you're right. If the meat intended for human consumption is placed on the market by a slaughterhouse and the rest, namely the bones and other meat waste, fats and other, will be ground into animal meal, I think it is legitimate and permissible. However, the massive restriction must be made that this animal meal should not be fed to ruminants. This restriction is correct and important. It is not possible to construct parts of the animals slaughtered for human consumption, while burning, digesting or otherwise depositing other parts of the same animals as inedible. This cannot be the purpose and purpose of Mr Firlinger's great liberal request! Mr Firlinger said that, first of all, it must be ruled out that ruminants are fed with bone and animal flour. But he didn't differentiate that. He was no longer able to do this because he was already working on preparations for the change to the liberals. Secondly, it is very important – and this is still to be clarified in Austria – that residues of sick animals, possibly also of animals infected by BSE, should not even be used to feed all-fooders. We know that England has huge warehouses of animal meal, which one is trying to accommodate in some way on the international market. This is very dangerous, and therefore, Mr Donabauer, I believe that we must be particularly strict and restrictive here. In principle, however, I am right, Mr President, that the request is wrong and indiscriminate and therefore has to be referred back. I am therefore a counter-voicer because I am opposed to the other points, and that is why I have been notified. However, I am on your side in this request, although I believe that we must be very careful in this respect. The proposal by Firlinger is poorly thought out, indifferent and will not be better, even if the other liberals still defend him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14005	Mrs Dunst is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14026	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make three comments on the content discussed today. First of all: I am pleased that all five parties have the same view in the area of bath hygiene. Of course, such a new system is of particular importance in a tourism country such as Austria. One can certainly speak of confidence-building measures if the control requirements are observed. The domestic and foreign guest should be able to bathe in our domestic waters with pleasure without having to fear. In particular, it should be certain that constant controls and a corresponding warning system will ensure the high quality of the Austrian baths. Secondly, I was not exactly surprised when I had to hear from several speakers that the Medical Products Act was too long for them! Mrs Motter! I have to tell you honestly: If you're just talking about a monster law, then my disappointment is particularly great. They agree that the EU has less than 29 regulations. In this case, however, I am quite right to say to the Minister: This consumer protection law cannot be long enough. I think you should say that again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My speaking time is short. That is why I should like to come to the third and last point of my statement. Mr Salzl and many others of my previous speakers have referred to the motion for a resolution on the prohibition of feeding on animal and bone meal. I would just like to make two brief comments: First: As we all know, the feeding of animal meal to ruminants has been prohibited in Austria since 1990. Secondly, No case of BSE has yet occurred in the Austrian animal stocks. Since 1990, the brains of all animals with central nervous disorders have been routinely examined after their killing at the Federal Institute for Animal Disease Control in Mödling. If it comes back today, I can only say: Caution is the mother of the porcelain box. At the next meeting of the Committee on Health, this five-party proposal, which I am convinced of, will certainly come about again. Dr. Pumberger! Mr Schuster. Mrs Motter! Mrs Haidlmayr! I hope you will stand by your word! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14072	Mrs Huber is now on the floor. 3 minutes of self-restriction in speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14094	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to the Medical Products Act, which we Social Democrats – I would like to stress here – do not regard as too bloated and as too far-reaching, because when it comes to health, there can be no too much control, hygiene and protection for patients. In particular, the obligation to report is a central point for me in this act. In this way it has been achieved that complete tracking of all medical products is possible, so that in the event of a crisis it can be done precisely and quickly and suspect or harmful products can be removed from the market without long searches. Thus, the risk for patients to be treated with a inferior or even harmful product is largely minimized. I also see a further safeguard mechanism in the establishment of the Medical Register, especially because this safeguard mechanism must be seen in connection with the forthcoming European database. The fact that the presence of such a central register is very useful and important has shown us the practice, for Austria has had its own heart pace register for over seven years, which has proved itself to be the best. I believe that, in particular, the special provisions on hygiene and quality to be adopted on the way to the regulation are an essential criterion for the Minister for Health. Because this puts forward every brush, especially in highly sensitive medical areas, a bar. This medical device law, which results from the need for the implementation of an EU directive, will mean – I am convinced – for many affected, patients and consumers, more safety, more protection and more quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14132	No one has been reported in the word, and that concludes the debate. Would the rapporteurs or the rapporteurs like to speak? - That's not the case. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We therefore first proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the bath hygiene law, including title and receipt in 388 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for an amendment. I shall therefore vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Members of the Motter and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Z. 17 § 14 para. 3 refers. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I now leave Z. 17 § 14 para. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are for this purpose to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, including the print error correction made by the rapporteur. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – The request was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also a matter of simplification of votes. The request was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft legislation on medical devices, including the title and receipt in 313 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 389 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them a positive sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Mr Schuster and Mr Onodi have tabled a referral to the motion for a resolution on the 157/A (E) motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Firlingers and comrades concerning feed bans for animal and bone meal in food production. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a referral tabled by Mr Schuster and Mr Onodi. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. This request is therefore to be consulted by the Committee on Health. 16. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 229/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Act of Accession on the Administrative Procedures 1991 and the Commercial Regulations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14255	High house! We're going to the 16th. Agenda item: This is the first reading of Dr Kostelka and comrades' motion 229/A concerning a federal law amending the Introductory Act on the Administrative Procedures and the Commercial Regulations. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kostelka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14283	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Two years ago we debated in this House on the horrendous murder of four Roma and Sinti in Oberwart. In the course of this debate, it has become known that local bans have not been in the past since 55 years for ethnic, racial, religious and also for disability reasons in Austria, but are still happening today. At the time, I explained from this point of view that I did not know that. When I said these words, however, it became clear to me that the words I heard all too often in my youth in relation to the Nazi regime. I therefore swore at the time that it did not once again apologise "I didn't know!" Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have, in the course of the course of my group, tabled a request for a change in the trade regulations and the EAEC with a view to the drastic but acceptable penalties in those cases where, because of their disability, racial or ethnic origin or religious attitudes, someone is referred to or prevented from entering a local. Ladies and gentlemen! We were close to solving this problem during the last legislative period. However, the amendment could not be decided because, by a group of the House who claimed to represent the economy, the position was taken that a penalty of up to 3 000 s would be acceptable in such a local ban, but no more schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how to prevent local bans! We want to take this shame from Austria also in international space. We want to prevent anyone from being referred to a local out of one of them in Austria for 55 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We understand that Rowdytum should be kept away from locals. You can discuss with me whether there should be a local in which you have to wear a slip as a condition for the visit – but it is not acceptable to set the skin color behind this slip as a condition for entering a local. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No pre-litigation cases and no baggage sentences for such blatant, serious violations of humanity. Give yourself, your Christian attitude and humanity in Austria a chance: Please vote with us for a damnation of the local ban and an effective ban on such action. I'm asking you to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14349	Mr Puttinger has now been notified to the House. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14370	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! If you're talking about "a party of this house," you're telling me who's meant to be! We're not hiding here. Let me say that it is the ÖVP that it is economics of the ÖVP or that it has been the Dr. Puttinger. One should not be too cowardly to mention those who have acted against it. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That would be you!]] The present application provides for the extension of the trade regulation in § 87 as regards the protection interests of persons who are discriminated against solely because of their race, their skin color, their national or ethnic origin, their religious confession or disability. In this form, the application is fully acceptable. However, Article 1 of your application is not acceptable, which provides for the increase in the fines of 3 000 S – and you have not said so in your speech – to 30 000 S. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to make it clear that I am opposed to any form of discrimination. You, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ – Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, I also blame you – take the matter too easy. It is probably necessary to put up a criminal framework without any imagination and to threaten the withdrawal of the rules of trade than in the event of discrimination. Its application is forward-looking and ultimately a hypocritical measure. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Stuck in!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Yes, of course!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: How much can it be: 3 000 S or 5 000 S?]] Let me tell you what I am thinking, let us stick to the principle: Money cannot change the setting. I am sorry that you think you could buy the attitude with money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Rather, it needs to be clarified about intolerance, even in schools, but also the presence of all of us against cases of intolerance in the public. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They believe that this is a matter of administrative punishment and nothing else. I'm sorry because it's much more about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, the present proposal for an initiative is a classic legislation. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: We must abolish the criminal law!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Now you really generate yourself!]] Mr. Klubobmann! Sage You have nothing but the reasons for your request: I quote: "Lastly, a case from Salzburg became known in which an African was refused to visit a discotheque solely because of his skin color." [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Do you want to defend this?]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: The face was inappropriate!]] I would like to thank you for asking me, and give you and the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party the following information: Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! The truth is that, according to the doorstepper, this African, who had already complained about this xenophobic local in 1994, behaved aggressively and was ill-dressed. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Shame!]] Now the interesting thing comes along – listen You're good at it! –: The doorman who refused entry to this African was also an African. Please explain to me now how an African black can discriminate against another African black because of the skin color! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Shame!]] [[Abg. Wabl: In the ÖVP, it happens daily that blacks are discriminated against!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, the fact that black Africans have been employed in this locality – and you know that very well because we have told you this in the negotiations – and that most of the visitors are Black Africans. High house! Finally, let us keep in mind: Tolerance to groups of persons affected by discrimination is undoubtedly an important component of peaceful living together in a democracy, but leads over people's hearts and brains and not through administrative criminal law!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14565	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen. You have a speaking time of 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14586	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dr. Kostelka! Your request concerns a very serious problem, since I - and my group too - agree with you. Only, like my previous speaker, do I believe that it is the wrong way to remove these discriminations by increasing criminal provisions. It is about reducing discrimination! However, with higher criminal conditions, discrimination is best built. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Discrimination is the best way to reduce it by creating understanding; I am also giving Mr Puttinger the right to do so. This understanding and this climate of tolerance, which you are constantly talking about, Mr Kostelka and my honourable ladies and gentlemen, must not only refer to the skin color of someone who belongs to nationality, but, of course, must also refer to political dissidents. [[Abg. Wabl: Enough!]] But here, Dr. Kostelka, I see a huge manko with you and your group. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now he's fleeing!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today it is already the case that the entire block of the left will decide when to discriminate against society and who is allowed to be released. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny, that's absurd! Do you have any examples?]] This is not absurd at all, Mr Novotny. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let me give you an example right away: Your Federal Chancellor, in agreement with his advisers, has created the Freeman in relation to the exclusion philosophy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But unsuccessful!]] He said that the whole of the FPÖ, including the Federal Party, must be excluded, and therefore severely discriminated against. In view of this, Mr Kostelka goes on his way and brings this request, which seeks to combat discrimination, to Parliament. Allow me to find the paradox. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mrs Mertel! I would not raise my mouth at all in this matter, they know exactly how you behaved against us here in Parliament. They have created a climate in Austria where certain people determine what to think and what to say, and those who do not comply with these requirements are closely excluded and discriminated against. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Brainwashing!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have created an opinion dictatorship in Austria, which seeks the same, where all intellectual politicians join forces with the government to march together against the opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vrannitzky said, for example, that the liberals are a political bagage. From the young socialists, the federal partyobmann of the liberals is released as a shot-off by representing a target disc with his face and writing "shoot your shot" on it. No one of you has made a request, no one has spoken of you as being a first-rate discrimination. There was no indignation on that from you, but only joy that our Federal Party observer would be able to do something like this. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's why you're for local bans? What does this have to do with local bans?]] For example, this hetze, which you constantly run against political dissidents, has led a liberal chief official not to go to a local on Spittelberg, which any greener operates. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's how it goes!]] Such a hatred also leads to the threat of disadvantages to free people wishing to register if you do not go down from the list. But then I hear no call for a threat of punishment. Ladies and gentlemen! Your exclusion philosophy you can not unravel from discrimination due to hair color, skin color. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You just can't see that separately. They're banishing! Ladies and gentlemen! Protection against discrimination is indivisible! That's something you like to be in the mouth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Accept the law!]] Mr Kostelka – I hope he is still here – I accept your touch in the case of the African. I really wonder, though, that in another case where you have been personally addressed, where it is not about a family of another race or skin color, but about a disabled Austrian, you have shown no touch at all. I'll read you a letter. A woman from the second district wrote to me the following – that's not laughing, you'll see it already –: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] "My husband and I have been a member of the Fisheries Association for 42 years, Section Danube Canal. 20 years ago, a section hut was established at Asperner Mühlwasser for the Committee members. The money was provided by the section, but all members worked on building the hut. At that time, according to Mr. Fritz Zapka, it was said that entry is permitted for members of the committee and that the spouses and the children are to be tolerated. Since my husband and I have no children, but my disabled brother lives in our common household and I take care of him, he was tolerated as our child. He is monoloid, very quiet and very popular with other members, not at all aggressive or loud, because he cannot speak. After becoming Chairman and Vice-President of the Fisheries Association, Obmann Fritz Zapka announced at the last meeting that from 1 January 2004 he had been appointed to the Committee. 1. In 1995 only more paying members may come to the section hut. My wife spoke to Mr Zapka on Friday, after the last meeting, that he now wants to enroll me and my disabled brother from January as members. But Mr. Zapka doesn't want to know about both of us, because according to his statement that he gave me on the phone afterwards, the section hut is not a social office and therefore a disabled person has no access." [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's unheard of!]] That's inappropriate. Then it goes on to say: "We've been going to the hut for 20 years. Since I don't have a lot of leisure opportunities with my brother, who is disabled, I ask you to help me get my brother and I taken up as members. I have asked myself that Dr. Peter Kostelka is the President of the Austrian Workers' Fisheries Association. As Mr Zapka rejects us as Vice-President, I hope he has more heart as President." [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: If she had written to Kostelka, something would certainly have happened!]] Mr Novotny! Before you open your mouth, I'll tell you what I did. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: This is a completely different topic!]] Mr Guggenberger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I've been serious. I gave Mr. Dr. Kostelka a copy of this letter and asked Him: Please, do something that the disabled brother, who is not loud because he cannot speak, can continue to go to this hut! Dr. Kostelka didn't do anything at all at first. After some time when the woman wrote to me again or called me, it turned out that Dr. Kostelka had not touched a finger for these people. Mr Kostelka is here proposing that people should be allowed to enter a place which is obviously discriminated against, but he is not ready to do something where he is president, for someone who is being discriminated against. Dr. Kostelka then told me: The woman screams that she will talk to me because the brother is not allowed to enter. – It is no wonder that the woman loses her nerves. You have been with a disabled person for 20 years, he has been going to the Fisheries Association for 20 years, and suddenly he is not allowed to go. Suddenly, it is said that the Fisheries Association is not a Social Office. – Sagittarius You don't have the head, read the letter! I'd also like to give you the letter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now I know what a Pharisee is!]] Dr. Kostelka, who makes such a great request here today... [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Is another topic!]] It has something to do with it because it is about discrimination. Excuse me, if you do not understand, then I do not at all understand what you are qualified as a disabled speaker of the Socialist Party. Mr Kostelka, who is so touched by the fact that an African does not let another African into an African site, has not even touched his little finger in this case of the Mongoloids. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that's terrible! Now I tell you, of the Socialists, the following: Do yours to create a climate of tolerance and understanding in Austria and here in Parliament, so that political dissidents are also accepted! If you've created this climate, we don't need to increase the penalties anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14879	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14900	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's hard to show interference here. I would also like to be willing and interested to look at the case presented here by the colleague, Partik-Pablé, but I am not satisfied with what has been said here. But it's interesting. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You also laughed!]] No, no, no, Again: It's interesting. But it has nothing to do with the matter we are talking about here, because it is by no means a law. [[Abg. May. Haigermoser: Tolerance is divisible – after Kier!]] Mr. Haigermoser! This is by no means a law which will enable the disabled to be discriminated against. I think we all agree: This law is precisely aimed at putting what the colleague, Partik-Pablé, has put into space here, under an appropriate administrative penalty in the future. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Can a people's representative not care about such a thing?]] It is illustrative, but not quite appropriate to the example described here, but at least in the vicinity; the colleague, Partik-Pablé, may have subsumulation problems in criminal law, which may be, can happen to judges. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A people's representative also has civil obligations!]] However, this is an application that works with the means of criminal prevention, because criminal frameworks are also a preventive means. [[Further call of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Haigermoser has no good behavior, I see, but that's not new. I apologise for this old finding. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: He's never said that before!]] I say it again: The law is not contrary to the concerns of the colleague Partik-Pablé. Nevertheless, you think that the criminal framework is inappropriate. It is particularly interesting to hear that from your mouth, also from Mr Puttinger's mouth, because I occasionally hear from both political groups, for example from Mr Fekter, who is chairing the Committee on Justice, that the penalties cannot be strictly enough. However, in the administrative penalty, which is absolutely inexorable to a spectacular extent of 30 000 s, it appears that there is a threat of existence for the gastronomy, which intends to allow discrimination to take place, one at a time is the level of punishment. If you want to have a preventive effect in this area, you will not get 3 000 S. There we are, I hope, agreed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Haselsteiner asked Mr Puttinger – Mr Puttinger has spoken here – to call him a sum: 5 000, 10 000, 15 000? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: When was the last case of discrimination in a hospitality company?]] Mr Puttinger! If there is no discrimination, then you do not have to fear the increase of the penalty, then they do not have to fear the penal framework, then the criminal framework may be unblemished art, which would be very pleasing, but I fear that it is not quite that way, I fear that there will actually be discriminations of the kind described here in this country. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens]] If that is true of what the colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, has said, then this is not quite an appropriate case to this law, but also a very unpleasant one. There's something like that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This proves that you have not read the template at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Partik-Pablé.]] Criminal provisions give each and every opportunity to ensure better protection of legal property. Although they will not prevent discrimination, they may have preventive effects. We hope that 30 000 s, over which there is such a great excitement, will be more preventive than 3 000 p. 30 000 s, and I think you should try it by 30 000 s. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why not 100 000 S?]] Mr Puttinger says that this is not necessary at all, because there is no discrimination at all. There, some of the things that are being disputed could be given the same penalty. That would also be a possibility: All that is not available in the world of colleague Puttinger is free of punishment. I believe, however, that the preventive effect of criminal legislation has a good meaning. If these are as effective as Mr Puttinger says, then it is all the better, but you do not have to fear the increase of punishments. This request is used to conduct a sham discussion, a sham discussion that causes excitement there – on the right side of this House – where one seems to believe that a religious confession might be appropriate to prove someone with a local ban, possibly also a disability, the ethical origin, the race or even the skin color. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now the tires squeak neatly!]] I am not concerned with examples, but if someone is abstract, that means that he is for that. Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you're abstract against it, then you're for it! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Don't talk out! If you think you're against it, then it means that you're in return for it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A woman Schmidt is enough!]] Mr Haigermoser, I ask you again: Try every now and then for five minutes... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: He can't!]] Can't he? – He has a so-called Mongorrhoea. Good. I'll tell you once again: Whoever is not our opinion here is for this! On the other hand, there is sometimes a need for certain occasions to do something like this, which can also be the cause of legislation – an argument by Mr Puttinger, who must be taken seriously. I take this seriously insofar as we all haven't come up with it before, that we need such a thing. It's right, it took an occasion for us to get on with it. That is why this is even a matter of law! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You always argue the way you need it.]] But I don't know what to say. If someone does not represent this position – like the colleague Partik-Pablé – and says that this is the opinion dictatorship, if one represents this position, then I must say: I firmly reject that! What stands here is such a fundamental fundamental legal system and so inseparably linked to human dignity that the word "consistency" cannot be found. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But we don't have to anchor fundamental rights in administrative criminal law!]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr President, I should like to thank If administrative criminal law is an instrument to better protect fundamental rights in practice, I should be right because the catalogues of fundamental rights will remain paper if we do not implement them in life. There is better persuasion, Enlightenment and reduction of prejudices, but it alone will not be enough. They also experience that some others are banned in this country, such as driving motor vehicles in an alcoholic state, and yet it is taking place. I therefore believe that the prohibitive punishment in this area cannot be high enough – and the withdrawal of the driver's licence is not quick enough. I can argue over the Promille border, but not about the principle. This also applies in this case: Either you think that discrimination should not be, you also confess to it and do not clung to a lavish 30 000 S! But if you think otherwise, then say it openly and don't hide behind 30,000 s, because that's bad! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15147	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen. 7 minutes of time limit – apparently voluntarily.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15169	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Puttinger – President Puttinger – said: "Tolerance is about the hearts and brains of the people and not about administrative criminal law." [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you say about Kostelka?]] How right do you have, Mr Puttinger, a wise word that you have said here! This is a principle which I would like to see very often in the Committee on Justice - you are not a member of the Committee on Justice - if colleagues in your group – no, it is only colleagues – so if colleagues in your group are talking about more severe penalties, more narrowness, more incarceration and more than just non-exhaust. I would like you to think also of the heart and the brain and not just of the administrative criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: So now the thumb screw Mr. Kostelka will put on!]] Criminal law is always the Ultima ratio, is always the last means the state that holds the monopoly of violence should use. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, anyway. But, Mr Puttinger, our task is to carry out a fine of up to 30,000 p.m. – and in this case it is a fine of up to 30,000 p. – in terms of moral values. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And for the withdrawal of commercial law!]] It's in our hands. We have the privilege of deciding what these values look like. Nothing other than the reprehensibleness of conduct is expressed by a criminal measure. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about the drug offences?]] I wanted to give this to you as a little bethupferl this evening for thought before you talk again in a row, which I think your person is not at all adequate. You can sometimes also exaggerate a bit of lobbyism and party taking for a clientele that you represent, and I had this impression with you, Mr President and colleague Puttinger! Mr Puttinger! Is it not embarrassing for you to react in this way with your speech to racist hostes who may be there? I do not know this particular case, which is in the explanatory statement – it is not a legislative element, which is the reason for a request – but I know, first of all, stories of those concerned who, at the time, when Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, already in the last legislative period, had made this request, were in order to become active there. I mean, for example, local bans for members of the Roma People's Group. I think this is an incredible matter – and I ask you for nothing but this seriousness. Mr Puttinger! It is embarrassing for you, in your speech, to stand at the same level as the colleague, Partik-Pablé. I have so far had a very different picture of you, Mr President, which, unlike some others I have of people from the Freedom Party. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It's not forerunnery. First of all, we should not strive for God’s love in such things by using the word “hypocritical”. It is rather the expression of the Ultima ratio, and this time the name Kostelka is under the application. I'll give him the whole thing right. In my opinion, this request is far too late. I would have liked Dr. Kostelka, if he were still here, to ask the question why we should wait so long for such measures to be implemented, why has nothing actually happened all the time? I would like to see the general prevention effect of such a measure. We therefore do nothing more than agree to a federal law which amends the EGVG and the trade regulations within the meaning of Dr. Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15258	Mr Kiermaier has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15280	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have been in the hospitality industry since 1962. I think I could write a big book about all the experiences I've made in the last decades. Many of these experiences were and are pleasing and have made the profession of the hostess nice for me. But there are also difficulties that often occur in the form of unloving events. Such incidents are thanks to God, but they occur every now and then. I am speaking now, for example, of guests who do not know how to behave in a local. However, such a thing must be very strictly separated from the matter to be treated here. For this request is quite clearly opposed to racism and human contempt. It is a scandal when people are prevented from entering a local because of their race, their skin color, their national origin or physical disability. Mr Puttinger! I don't understand your concern about this 30 000 S. I am convinced that we and my colleagues will never have to pay them. I would never get into this situation because I would not come to the idea of not letting a person in at the door as a guest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must be very careful that with such generalizations we do not bring our status into a light which he does not deserve at all. I think it is important that we make it clear that there are two materials in this area: On the one hand, there is today's proposal, and on the other hand there is a law from 1952, which is very specific to the local ban. The latter law deals with the local ban on drunkards and rowdies. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We must try to merge these two materials. There is now a real need for this matter to be properly regulated. For example, it is very, very often the case that women in our trade – waitresses, innkeepers – are confronted at a later hour with guests who are anything but pleasant. It is very common for our servant staff and therefore often our family members to be harassed. However, it is necessary to remedy this, because at present the necessary instruments are not available. The Law of 1952 contains the possibility of prohibiting a ban on the District Headship, on the Magistrate, or on the League. We reject that. We want, rather, that, once a guest has done damage to a local person, both human and material damage, the hostess by law has the opportunity to ban this visitor from visiting his local. I did this once in written form, by means of a registered letter. But that's not legal. It is therefore necessary to legalize such a step. Nevertheless, we should clearly make a distinction with the other matter. A few days ago, three skinheads appeared in my basement – and I can really imagine having a good audience. They have settled down at the counter and have then explained aloud how many locals in the city they already have no access. The waitress looked at me for help. I've put an end to the ghost. Now I may feel that due to the well - known function that I wear, rest has been given. But I don't want to know what would have happened an hour later if I hadn't been around anymore. That's what I think we should focus on. Let's separate one from another. Let us make sure that in the gastronomy clear lines are drawn to protect the host, its guests and the staff in such cases! On the other hand, let us insist that every citizen, whatever the colour of the skin he is and the like, can enter a local unhindered. We're not afraid of 30,000 S punishment. I am convinced that ours will never have to pay them because every guest is welcome. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15343	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Guggenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15364	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Three or four years ago, at a local in my home district, which is mainly frequented by young people, there was the inscription: "Delights unwanted." In August, in a Innsbruck discotheque, a group of young mentally handicapped people from the University of Tyrol were refused access to a discotheque, personally by the boss. This was not an disabled person, Mr Puttinger, and the local owner in my home district was not an alien, but a Tyrolean. The head of the discotheque refused access to the young mentally disabled with the comment: I have nothing against you, but I can't see my guests spiritually People with disabilities! – Dear ladies and gentlemen! If that's not a scandal, what's a scandal at all?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] We are dealing with this request that we set out a clear, unmistakable sign that such conduct is undesirable and is to be rejected in every form. In order to signal this, administrative penalties also include administrative penalties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] It surprises me that on that side of this House, which otherwise will not tire out, it is suddenly said to demand more severe punishment and prevention and deterrence: We must solve all of this on the human, on the tolerance level! We don't need any punishment at all! – I understand who wants to see why Mrs. Partik-Pablé is suddenly against punishment. She probably became a Saula from a Paula. I don't understand at all. I can't follow your course. But I will ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that disabled people know exactly what attitude you have on this question. You can rely on that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Puttinger! Most of your guests come from the Federal Republic of Germany. Take a look at how this is regulated there! In § 185 of the German Criminal Code, such conduct is explicitly classified as honorary punishment and is subject to criminal punishment. You can also read in the German Gaststättengesetz! There it says: "In addition, the competent administrative authority may withdraw a hospitality permit for the lack of reliability of the host operator if it violates the prohibition of discrimination several times because it belongs to the reliability of the host host operator's operation in compliance with applicable law." [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: With us they go until the withdrawal of the concession!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] That's German law, and that's what we want! In Germany, what we are trying to do is already right. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The withdrawal of the concession is Austrian law!]] For example, look at France, Mr Puttinger. In France, even judicial lawsuits are threatened if one does what the Innsbruck nightclub owner has done. They are opposed to rules that have long been in place and are in existence abroad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Mr Puttinger! This is a first reading. You still have enough time to think. You can go inside now. We ask you industriously: Don't stand in the way of a solution! The Austrian legislator must also say clearly, clearly and unmistakably: There must be no such behaviour in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15457	Mr Puttinger has reported an actual correction. Duration: 2 minutes; the Rules of Procedure are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15482	Mr Guggenberger! If you'd been listening or if you'd read your own clubman's request, you'd know that in Austrian law we'd have a commercial withdrawal. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: I read it!]] Therefore, Germany cannot be a model for us in this context, because such measures are provided for in this request. And I have said that this is fully supported. – I'm sorry I had to correct you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15513	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen. You've got 7 minutes of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15535	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A law that makes it impossible to discriminate against different people, such as the disabled or people who belong to ethnic or racial minorities, is long overdue. I do not want to quote what Mr Guggenberger has already said. I am pleased that he is already reading the same literature as I am. The fact that discrimination against disabled people is on the agenda every day in the hospitality sector cannot be missed! Mr Puttinger! I need to tell you something: I come around in Austria a lot, and I have a lot of contact with disabled people, regardless of the cause and severity of their disability. Mr Puttinger! Faith You're telling me: I didn't just leave a place once or have not been let in at all. I pulled the tablecloth away from the table when I wanted to go with my wheelchair. I was turned away from the local by saying that I may be removed because I am not a pleasant sight for the other guests; if I stay, then the other guests stay away. – That’s fact! My acquaintance is a spastic. Not too long ago we went to a local in Linz. I went ahead, he was just behind me. Suddenly I felt motion in the background and turned around. And you know what happened? – A waiter and a waitress had subjected my friend to the left and the right, and he was already standing at the door again. My acquaintance couldn't defend himself because he needed to talk longer because of his disability. He just became a spasticist and a lot of movement while walking, and the staff might have thought he was drunk without comment and without any further question immediately expelled from the local. My acquaintance was once, when he wanted to eat in a local place, refused to eat something. They said they would pack him the food, eat at home, and get the drink he had just ordered for free, but he could not eat at this place. Mr Puttinger! That's how we do it day after day! This is how disabled people do if they want to go to public places or in shops or take part in public life somewhere. I haven't been served in a clothing store until last week. The salesman I asked if she was helping me try a jacket told me she wasn't a salesman. Another woman, who came after me, then, of course, showed her the clothes she wanted to buy and helped her try. This discrimination, which we experience in this form day after day, cannot be paid off to us in money. The personal damage and the injury we have to bear cannot be assessed in money. It's not possible. But if all those who discriminate and exclude people from society today are punished accordingly, then they will consider whether they will tear my acquaintances out of the local, whether they will take the tablecloth off the table in the future, when we go to dinner, or whether they will only offer us a place in the back of the corner in the garden, if we want to stay. We must not sit in the front, because this could frighten other guests and prevent them from sitting in the garden too! A punishment that suspects such behavior cannot be high enough. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the SPÖ.]] Mr Puttinger! I'm giving you a short-term tip: If you don't want disabled guests coming to your locals who may not be happy with you, then just take a few steps, because then we can't get in anyway! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15589	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I hereby accept Amendment No 229/A to the Constitutional Committee. 17. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 241/A by Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallatund Comrades on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Election of Members to be sent from Austria to the European Parliament (European Election Order – EuWO)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15628	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item: First reading of the motion for a resolution 241/A by Mrs Rauch-Kallat and others on a federal law amending the European electoral system. We are going into the debate. The word first receives the applicant. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15656	Mr President. High house! We made a European election almost 14 days ago, and it has been shown that, contrary to the various assumptions, the participation in this European election was very high. This means that even in Austria or especially in Austria, the population was very interested in this election, much more than in other EU countries. This election has shown that there is a great interest in Austrian participation in the European Parliament through the election of MEPs. It is therefore only too understandable that it is a matter for us to make it easier for those Austrians who do not live domestically to choose. Especially for them, a connection to the home country is often of particular importance, especially they are very interested in exercising their civil rights as well. It is therefore incomprehensible for the Austrian People's Party to make it difficult to exercise this right of vote through bureaucratic obstacles. The request we have submitted is mainly about facilitating the exercise of the right to vote for Austrians abroad, but also about facilitating the right to vote for those Austrians who are abroad at the time of election. The application contains in particular the provision that those Austrians who have registered in the electorate will automatically receive a voter's card and do not have to make a specific request for it, because only by registering in the electorate will they have their wish to vote. Of course, it is a requirement that their current address should be located in their home community. In addition, the application also provides relief in terms of bureaucratic conditions. In the future, two witnesses will no longer have to be taught for the exercise of the right to vote under the designation of passport number. An affidavit should replace this. In the sense of a comprehensive electoral right, it is also our concern to introduce this provision for the European electoral system in an analogous way to the National Council's electoral system. I very much hope that you can agree to this simplification in the interests of Austrians living abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15698	I call Mr Gusenbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15719	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have to disappoint you, Mrs Rauch-Kallat: We will not be able to fulfill your wish. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: We expected that!]] It is always easier to make hopes when you know from the beginning that they cannot be implemented into action. – I will explain below why it is so. It is not only about the simplicity of the right to vote, but it is essentially also about the secret of elections in Austria and the right to vote should be exercised in person and inexorably. It is absolutely crucial, I believe, that every citizen and every electorate has been put in a structural position to exercise their right to vote in person and inexorably. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: These are old hats!]] The ineffectiveness of the right to vote – you can read this in the Judicatur of the VfGH – is a very high asset, Mr. Khol, a dear Member. We Socialists believe that, since we do not have a right to vote, there is a right to vote, everyone in Austria must take the minimum effort, at least on the election day, to go to the constituency in order to make his election decision freely and without prejudice. We believe that if the Austrians who live abroad are so keenly interested in taking part in the election, which we are quite welcome, they can take quite a minimum effort. We believe that the changes made to the electoral system in the past have already done and been done enough to enable as many people as they really want to go to vote to actually take part in the election. In our view, a further change would lead to a serious threat to the other goods, namely the immaterial nature of the personality and the secret character of the choice. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: For 15 years, you have been against the election of letters!]] That is why we are not available to Social Democrats for this proposal from your side, dear Mrs Rauch-Kallat.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15795	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nut trees. Please, honourable Member. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15816	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After 22 months in the EU Parliament, with long stays in Strasbourg and Brussels, I have developed a very great understanding of the concerns of the Austrians abroad, who have always advocated their right to vote and then fought for it to be easier to handle the right to vote. I have also learned how interested the Austrians are in pursuing the events in their home country and how strongly the self-esteem of an Austrian foreigner depends on the economic, cultural and ecological success development in their home country, that is, in Austria. The Austrians have struggled for a long time for the right to vote in the National Council. The application is the basis of the then Ausland-Austrian platform. This concern was always supported by us liberals and also brought here in plenary. The coalition government, but above all the SPÖ – we have just heard it again – has long opposed the introduction of the Ausland-Austrian election law and has never taken legal steps in this direction. Only the recognition of the Constitutional Court during the XVIII. For the 1994 National Council election, the legislative period also imposed the right to vote for Austrians abroad. But the existing novelle is associated with bureaucratic shortcomings that make the choice difficult or even impossible for many foreign Austrians. Unfortunately, this imperfect regulation of the National Council election system has also been transferred to the European electoral order. Many complaints, especially after the last EU election, show the importance of simplifying formal rules. Above all, the affidavit described in this motion rather than the certification currently under difficulties, which must be made by a notary, a notary-like person, an Austrian representative abroad or by a confirmation by two witnesses, finds our support, although the problem of possible electoral influence has not been resolved in this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! This small request for a change in the European electoral system illustrates, for example, how little effort can be made in many areas of debureaucratisation in order to reduce the time and cost, without the citizens' anger, to increase the participation of the Austrians in foreign elections. On the previous item on the agenda, on the reduction of discrimination, there is also a reduction in discrimination against foreign Austrians: If you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, were to be free of prejudice in this House every month in this House, then you would not invent new burdens and would be ignominious to citizens! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15866	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen. There are 12 minutes left at your disposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15888	For God's sake, I won't need twelve minutes! Mr President. High house! I was an Austrian for sixteen years myself. I therefore think I can better assess what it means to be cut off from home, but if you are quite interested in the processes at home. I believe that the Auslandsösterreicher is well informed, and I am sure that the Auslandsösterreicher are interested in Austria and in the elections in Austria. Two months ago I had the opportunity to attend a celebration of the Auslandsösterreicher in Baden, and I must say that I was amazed at the commitment these make to Austria abroad. That is why I can only say that I welcome this proposed amendment to the European electoral system. It means simplifying the system. On the other hand, the municipality's commitment to vote is an even greater incentive for foreign Austrians to take part in the election. I also believe that an affidavit should be sufficient and that there is no need for witnesses to prove that it is being done correctly. As an Austrian, you should be able to trust other Austrians as well. A change in the National Council electoral system in the light of the adaptation of the rules on the right to vote abroad should be sought as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15921	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 241/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15954	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed applications 309/A to 312/A have been tabled. Questions 1387/J to 1411/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 31. October 1996, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the communication distributed in the room. – The session will be started at a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
