ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2143	I should like to welcome the ladies and gentlemen and ask them to take their seats. – We will soon make a fishing observation. The 40. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 37. Meeting of 19. ==References====External links== ==References== In September, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Preisinger, Rosenstingl, Schöll, Kröll, Dkfm. Mühlbachler, Sauer, Dr. Stippel, Ing. Tychtl, Vergestnich and Schaffenrath. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2180	I also announce that, for this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on resolutions of the Federal President or of the Federal Chancellor representing the President of the Federal Republic of Germany made the following communication: The Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Caspar Einmwerd by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Helga Conradress. The Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art Dr. Rudolf Scholten will take part in the current hour and will then be represented by Mr. Franz Hums. Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2216	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that the Dkfm. DDr. Friedrich König's mandate was renewed, thus relinquishing the mandate of Member Fritz Neugebauer. Since the election of Mr Dkfm. DDr. The king is already present and the said one is present in the house, we will immediately make the fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the woman writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words "I promise". Mrs. Parfuss will read the vow formula. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2240	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2256	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2271	I welcome Mr Dkfm. DDr. King in our midst. [[General condolences.]] The Croquis says: the "new" representative – but that would not have been quite true. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2307	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: "Crise at the Austrian universities" First of all, Mrs Dr. Petrovic. Your speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2340	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have made the crisis at the Austrian universities the subject of this current hour, because it is very important for us to draw attention to the situation of universities in Austria and to point out that, in this area, the government's promises, which have always been made, are not only more important for you than Austrian higher education policy, but also for us to continue every day on from a modern educational and research policy in Austria. In our view, this crisis of the Austrian universities has three essential aspects: On the one hand, the functioning of universities, their ability to set up their own task, to train young people, to provide them with the best possible training, in a way that allows the operation to be efficiently and smoothly handled. The second point: People work at universities: Students, teachers and researchers. With regard to the group of people working at universities, we note the impact of the load package that this group of people is far harder than all the others in the population. And this, Mr Federal Minister, in times when Austrian universities are in urgent need of resurgence in order to remain competitive with the most efficient research sites in Europe and worldwide. The third important point concerns the social situation of students. The social situation of students has deteriorated dramatically over the last few months, due to the load package – at a time when more and more people are becoming victims of a social-smarotch debate broken down by fence. Also in connection with the students you can hear more often: What do they need to study for? You're studying at our expense. – This argument is neither politically nor with an efficient equipment in this area. Let me now comment on the various points. The Federal Government, Mr Bundesminister, has presented this House in recent days with an extensive report on the Austrian universities and the situation there. This report clearly states: We can do until the year 2000 – I say: Thank God – expect an increase in the number of listeners. Increased interest in university studies is urgently needed in Austria. Federal Minister! You know the numbers as well as we do, you know that Austria, as far as the academic quotas are concerned, is unfortunately in the final European field. In other industrialized countries, the academic ratios are 25 percent, i.e. a quarter of the population has a university education in those states that are top academic. In Austria, it is 7.9 percent. Behind us, only Turkey ranks in these statistics. In fact, we should be very pleased that the interest in university education is on the rise. Only: What is your reaction to it, what is the German Government's reaction to it? – The response to the expected at least 10 percent increase in the number of students is a 10 percent reduction in courses. Federal Minister! How is that supposed to work? They know that in important areas of study today the audiences are already overshadowing that there is a dissatisfaction in the inscriptions that students, in order to find a place, have to stay in front of the doors of the evidence stations, and so on. 10 percent increase in students, 10 percent reduction in courses – this is the reaction of this federal government, a response that will surely strengthen the crisis at Austrian universities. There is nothing to do with the fact that, as an emergency measure in individual directions of study, the 10 per cent reduction is not allowed in the path of grace. The opposite would be said, Minister of State, that it is finally possible for universities to work in smaller groups, so much more efficiently. The longer periods of study mainly result from the fact that the support of students is no longer optimal. That is to say, even in times of savings and tax packages, an extension of the teaching offer and not a dramatic reduction should now be made. On the second point, on the situation of the medium-sized building: The efficiency, the working capacity of the universities also stands and falls with motivated employees at the middle level. It is precisely this group of people that the load package is not only uncertain, it is threatened in its existence. What we have been promised over the years, namely that those who still hang completely in the air in their professional safety, in particular the so-called "existence lecturers" are finally secured, that is not the case. On the contrary: One has not only insecured this entire profession, but has, in a way that affects women in particular, carried out dramatic cuts. More than 20 percent of the salary losses were charged to this population group – and this, as has been said, at a time when they are equally affected by the general burden on all citizens. My colleague, Mr Van der Bellen, will continue to address this problem in detail. On the third point, on the social situation of students: 50 percent of students in Austria have to pay less than 6 000 S per month. Now, after the removal of free travel, this concerns about the students in Vienna with a minus of just under 500 s per month, and if you add to that the cancellation of family aid and the amount of the deposit, then this will result in a total income loss of more than 2,500 s, i.e. 44 percent of the income. Federal Minister! There is no other group that is simply taken away by the tax package almost half of the money available monthly – and that, as has been said, in a country with a catastrophicly low rate of academics. How do you justify this, and how do you intend to counteract it in the future, Mr Federal Minister? Federal Minister! For this reason, we are making applications today, which are aimed at restoring at least the status quo as regards the social security of students, i.e. reintroducing free travel and maintaining family allowances until 27. Year of life. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We call on you here and today to extend the range of courses instead of the irrational reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2419	On the issue of an opinion, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Scholten, spoke. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2440	Mr President. High house! Mrs Petrovic! They finally used the word "irresponsible". – I mean, it’s not responsible to deal with such a serious topic in such an incredibly light-headed way. Let me give you a few examples: They meant that the so-called existential lecturers were particularly affected by this package. – These are one of the few groups that are not at all affected, because they were hired two years ago and no longer have teaching assignments. They also meant – and this is also said in a Green Paper – that 30 percent of study beneficiaries would be affected by the loss of family support. No study aid beneficiary may be affected by the absence of family aid, since a study grant beneficiary explicitly provides for the law to be compensated for the family allowance – and this has been so for a long time. That's no news at all. This means that what you claim apodically for 30 percent of the study aid beneficiaries cannot occur at all. They also said, statistically speaking, that what is going on is just Turkey. If, in the statistics of the Greens behind Austria, Turkey is only mentioned, then it is only Turkey that comes behind us. But You know exactly – and if you do not know it, I tell you – that the country that has the highest value in this regard includes all higher schools. If you want to keep the "education paradise" USA here now, I'll tell you: Both are trying, no comparison. If we want to reach 27.4 percent academic rate, like the US, and that's the top place in your list, that means that we're taking the higher schools into account, so that the academic rate – if I call it "artificial", it's up against the high schools unfairly, that is, maliciously. That wouldn't be a problem. You would only rightly say – and I would be on your side – that this is statistical play. All the countries that are listed here – except Japan, I do not know – but in any case the UK and the Netherlands have a long tradition of colleges or college-like courses, which are included in the academic rate. In addition, you can only assume statistically that according to your remarks, the number of students growing in astronomy must lead to an increase in the academic rate. However, I will come to this point later. In Austria, I say here on information, it is to be read in detail in the university report – a relatively low academic rate in international comparison, as measured by the average of the population. However, as far as the re-students are concerned, we have an academic ratio, which is quite well on the international scale, even slightly above the average. In other words, it can be assumed that over the years this significantly increasing rate of re-students will automatically lead to an increase in the average academic rate in the population. I come back to the "serious" way of dealing with the truth. Mrs Petrovic! You said quite literally that we had made cuts in the teaching contracts, namely in the fees. They also said that it was necessary for us to be competitive. Call me, Madam Member, a country in Europe, which – I don't want to say " generously" – would sound like they didn't deserve it – spend high amounts per hour teaching assignment, as is the case in Austria. Show me a single country on your list! – The United States certainly not, Japan – I say that easily – certainly not either, the United Kingdom with no certainty, the Netherlands definitely not, Germany definitely not. As far as Turkey is concerned, I do not know. They demand that we remain competitive by not being allowed to lower rates which are not at all available in other university societies. We should be competitive by not being allowed to reduce income in addition to basic income, because otherwise we would come to the back of other university pay systems, while what we lower does not exist to 100% in the other countries at all. So I ask you – with all your desire for polemics – to give the truth at least a residual position. They said that the increasing number of students would be accompanied by personnel reduction. – The opposite is true. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] First of all, we have to wait for the actual number of students for the 1996/97 study year. The Graz rector told me yesterday that there are currently five students in Graz more than in the same period of the previous year. But we'll see. The number of those employed at universities has increased. I am very interested in the fact that we have a reform-oriented discussion on the subject of universities. But I would like to know this matter seriously, and I do not want it to be dealt with in a lightly polemic manner. The universities must be taken more seriously in order to be able to deal with them in a serious way. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2525	There are further words available. The speaking time is now 5 minutes each. Next, Mr Van der Bellen. Not only but also because the current hour is broadcast on television, I ask you to keep the sound level a little lower. Please, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2555	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Federal Minister Scholten for being here. He made a trip abroad; he could have been apologised and represented. We appreciate that. I don't know exactly how to say that in German. [[General hustle and bustle.]] We recognize that. – This may be an appropriate formulation. We now have an hour, Minister of State. On this occasion, I may ask for very current things: How do things stand now – example service-law negotiations with the assistants? As far as I am aware, basically not much has happened since June of this year. Although opinions have been exchanged. The BUKO has submitted a position paper. But is there also a servicer's position on these things? As far as I am aware, at least your counterpart, i.e. the representative of the scientific staff, is not sufficiently informed about the position of the service provider in such an important matter. In the long run, one has to get the impression – I express very carefully – that a certain hemp tactic has been torn down for the time being. But how long is that supposed to last? I would remind you, Minister of State, that the rejection of the first proposals by the assistants was justified by the fact that these proposals are too expensive. - Well, should be, they're just too expensive. The Federal Accounting Office was asked to calculate what the proposals cost in detail, not only for the assets, but of course one must always take into account what this means some time later in the retirement age. These calculations are not yet available to my knowledge. Is it not possible to present these calculations? Why aren't they there? And when does the ministry's position come in this important matter? The suspension until the re-entry of the Structural Adjustment Act will hopefully not want the Ministry. Next point: apprenticeship quotas. We all know that teaching contracts, i.e. the number of hours, were on average reduced by 10 per cent for budgetary reasons; individual faculties more, to others less. I have the impression that the universities are trying to get the winter semester to some extent, as good as it is, to bring up the stage with Ach and Krach, even with the goodwill of those concerned, I must say that they are willing to read, in part, free of charge or not with reclaimed teaching assignments. This time, in the winter semester, because it's being negotiated because it's unclear how things are going to go out. But how will it continue? What will be in the summer semester? The teaching contracts for the summer semester are currently not known. That's unusual. In the past, it was possible to plan at least one year of study in advance by publishing the quotas at the beginning of the winter semester, including for the coming summer semester. That is not the case at present. How should reasonable planning take place under these conditions? I don't quite understand why this is a big problem. If I have understood correctly, then the new right of service will enter into force only in the winter semester of 1997, so that we cannot argue that we must wait for the service negotiations and the budgetary consequences of these negotiations before we can talk about the teaching assignments. Federal Minister! We all know that you have to work under extremely difficult budgetary conditions. But the aim of the Minister of Science cannot be limited to making budget adjustment under these adverse conditions – to cut down, to cut down there – and, in total, to keep the minds still quite calm. That can't be anything. I also do not know whether you can manage to keep this "work" alive with constant nominal budgets on the one hand, but rising numbers of students on the other. Because the increasing number of students, Mr Federal Minister, did not invent me, did not invent the Greens, but these are in the university report you have just presented, which also contains forecast figures for the next few years. As far as I am aware, a significant new increase in the number of students can already be observed in the current winter semester. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2615	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2645	Mr President. High house! Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen has started to be fair. I would also like to acknowledge in all fairness that it has a certain right to deal with the subject of university crisis at the beginning of the semester. I believe that if one tries to deal with the whole thing objectively, one must say: Speaking of a university crisis is partly correct and partly wrong. It is true that we are currently having a major discussion in this direction. So if, for example, a book called "Is the University Still to Save?" I have to say that this is, of course, an indication of the university's crisis. I would just like to point out that this book deals with universities in Germany. There is a debate that is going in this direction, which in principle affects the entire university life of the industrialized states. The question arises as to how this system should continue under structural changes. This is a relevant topic. But I do not want to go into it now in this short period of time. The second aspect concerns concrete Austrian everyday life. There is, of course, a wealth of questions. But I think it is necessary to keep a clear and sober look on this question. Ladies and gentlemen! I would simply like to give you a report from the practice of the University of Economics, i.e. the university in which I work. This is certainly one of the most taxed universities in Austria. There are also quite idyllic colleges. I think that this report from practice looks a little different from the report given by Mrs Petrovic, whose practical relationship has obviously been reduced in the meantime. I do not want to repeat my own observations here, but I support the journal of the Austrian University of Applied Sciences at the University of Economics, in which it reads in that number which appeared at the beginning of the semester: "In contrast to the prophecies... everything is going on plannedly, no trace of a collapse of doctrine." The following is to be read in an editorial by the chairman of the Austrian University School, who is known to be no different from the WU, which is not at all close to my party: "Over 90% of the courses could be secured for the next year and almost all open assistant posts are re-occupied. In the clear text, this means that there will be no reduction in the scope of the diploma examination dates and no endless waiting lists for the support of diplomas." This editorial also says – I must say this for the sake of fairness – that: "We" – meaning the ÖH – "were successful." I don't want to dispute that either. But I would like to do so in all Add modesty: These successes would not have been possible without the commitment of the Ministers of Schools and Climate, perhaps with all openness to say, especially Minister Scholten has proved to be a highly skilled, dynamic and ultimately successful negotiator in defending the interests of the University at a difficult time in all reluctance. This should also be recognised here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue in the citation of this article. As I said, This is the editorial of the Chairman of the ÖH at the WU: "Nevertheless, the government's savings course will not go past us without a trace, because there are millions that have to be brought up to us somewhere." – I admit that such a statement is more likely to be found by WU students than by students at other universities, who still refuse this reality. It also states in this article: "This offers a more efficient use of the administration, which could save an average study time for a semester – the author mentions very specific examples." This in conjunction with a study reform. I think these are the things it's all about. It makes no sense at all to vote in favour of such general claims. What is necessary, both for legislation, for administration and for universities themselves, is to take concrete steps towards improvement. You shouldn't always ask: What's the state doing for me? What do the taxpayers do for me?, but important is the question: What are the possibilities of universities themselves? Here are concrete examples. For us Social Democrats, it is crucial to say: What does this look like with regard to equal opportunities for men and women? How can we secure and preserve these? I believe that if we start from these principles, we can say that universities will be an effective and powerful instrument in Austria even in difficult times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2726	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Lukesch. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2748	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Novotny did before me, I too would like to begin by saying: We do not have a crisis at the Austrian universities. The winter semester has begun, the lectures take place – thanks to the cooperation, love and commitment of the staff, the professors and assistants at the universities. I would like to thank the members of the universities for this. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And the officers of the ÖH!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I locate a crisis in higher education policy and in the concept of higher education of the Greens. Although these call for a crisis, they have no answers at all to it, at least no answers that can work. How do you react, Mrs Petrovic, to the fact that too many students are still studying the wrong thing for too long? We from ÖVP want a study entry phase for the self-examination of students in order to end this disortionation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How do the Greens react to the challenge of a budgetary consolidation course, which is also recognised by Mr Van der Bellen as such, which should also make universities more efficient, slimmer and more mobile? We from the university want to use the scope for saving at universities, through a corresponding strengthening of university autonomy and the responsibility of the decision-makers there for their decisions. How do you react, Mrs Petrovic, to the concentration of social transfers for students on those who are studying effectively and who also need it socially? – Actually, only with the concept that everything must stay with the old, as it used to be, where only 2 or 3 billion shillings need to be spent more. That's not a positive concept, believe me! This has to end sometime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I also believe that reform work at our universities – and I am turning to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs – needs to be accelerated. Federal Minister! We need to speed up the pace of structural changes, as we have actually agreed. This concerns the implementation of the right of organisation, which concerns the law of study, which concerns the recommended higher education law, which must not be undermined in the "Bermudadreieck" between the Ministry of Finance, the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Science. This should be presented in broad outlines in this year. Minister! There is a need to negotiate intensively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Petrovic! I may have misunderstanded you, and the starting point of your crisis is the current leadership of the Austrian high school in the Central Committee by Leftmandatare and mandates from the Greens, which could be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I actually get confirmed that 58 percent of students do not feel or do not feel well represented by the current management team in the ÖH, then, I believe, this is a serious sign that threatens the co-determination structures and the positive climate between students, professors and assistants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I could give you an example, and I do, too, Mrs Colleague. I have been approached by two students, Maturants, who have turned to the GEIWI department in Innsbruck, which is also under the left-wing leadership, to study advice on the subject of religious sciences and German. Do you know what the representative told them there? – He told them: Yes, you can study that, but then you can only be prostituted. I'll point this out the sharpest! This is a sign of the lubrication of our study direction representatives! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Federal Minister! We need to tighten the pace of reform. And I think our studying youth has also deserved the better exploitation of the talent potential with long-term positive effects.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2828	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2850	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only hope that today, in the plenary session of the National Council, as many students as possible will listen, because they will certainly be amazed when they have to hear how socialist Member Novotny gives roses to the Minister in the face of this disaster. Mr Novotny! They have once again proved themselves to be the courtlord of a disastrous socialist education policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Mr Novotny, it is in all things a little bit of truth, and this grain of truth you have expressed with serenity when you said that the Minister has conducted the negotiations with extreme subtlety and restraint, as you have literally said. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: With success!]] Mr Novotny! I can only give you full justice. The Minister has held back in such a way that the biggest tax package on the students who have ever existed in the Second Republic is broken in. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You can certainly remember the Scientific Committee. We have found that, depending on the party membership, there are different definitions for this package, which you have tied up for the students. On the one hand, we are rightly talking about the load package, you are talking about a consolidation package. I do not want to hide what the Austrian Student School is talking about in the representation of the students, who are not quite far away from you ideologically, at least in part, what the leadership is about to do. She's talking about a "screw package." Mr Novotny! I would have expected you to make substantial statements. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I reported on the practice! You don't know them!]] You too, Mr Minister, would have expected you to take a real position on how it could have happened that a population group like the students had been shaved over with such brutality. Ladies and gentlemen! Students have up to 40 000 s of income loss, loss of living standards, in living conditions. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: You're guessing wrong!]] If you say it's going to be even more, it's even more unfortunate, but I'm not surprised now. I wouldn't be surprised if the loads were even greater. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're silent about it, too. We'll have to talk about it. 40 000 S Income losses for students who have to live partly on the edge of the minimum of existence! According to 22 500 s less for students who exceed the minimum duration of study by two semesters, a loss of the amount of children's leave, a further loss of 4 200 s, then the need for voluntary self-insurance in the ASVG, a further burden of 9 000 s for students, and the loss of free travel, a further 4000 s less. Mr Novotny and Mr Minister! Find words of explanation about this! You can't make yourself here and say: The Minister has behaved in such a way, out of noble restraint and responsibility for the budget in the budget negotiations, so that the students have simply been pulled over the table. Ladies and gentlemen! This loss of 40 000 s does not continue. Because the savings package or consolidation or load package – this is certainly the better expression for it; even better: Scrupulous package, as the Austrian high school says – meets above all those who have also supported the students, namely the parents. This load package fully charges the parents. Mr. Minister! In a rather emotional speech by Mrs Petrovic, you have accused her of very easy-to-use words such as 'irresponsibility'. I would be interested if you gave this opinion on a statement by an oppositionist: What do you say? Are you referring to the various statements of your party colleagues? The Association of Socialist Students of Austria states that according to an APA announcement of the 10th. September 1996 to: His job – that is to you, Mr. Minister – seems to me to be to build into Schikanen's studies. And if your colleagues from the VSSTÖ seem too drastic in their way of expression, I would like to point out to you the spokesperson of the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2923	Please pay attention to the time of speech!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2944	==References== September 1996 states that the SPÖ Education Spokesman is looting his party colleagues, Minister Scholten. He said: The Minister's policy runs counter to the educational objectives of social democracy. Mr. Minister! A research and education concept is missing. Instead, you operate management by chaos.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2978	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2999	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten speaks to Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Federal Minister! I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes. You should be alarmed when higher education policy looks so proud of it – as speakers of the great coalition have said – that the study business has not collapsed, that one is running crisis management, and that one is already satisfied with the start of the study business. Federal Minister! I don't think that's enough. In view of what happened in the summer semester, you can say: The university teachers protested, the students protested – but that was all an unwarranted excitement. However, Mr Federal Minister, there is a deep gap between the rhetoric of the great coalition and also some Members of the government who point out the importance of research and education, how important it is for our future, also with regard to European development. But you are content to make crisis management, and are already satisfied if the study business is not collapsed. There is a deep gap between rhetoric and actual conditions – and we should not take note of that. From our point of view, it is not a question of yelling at more money, as usual, but, Minister of State: As far as savings programmes are concerned, there is an ape-like pace, whereas the accompanying policy measures, which can only be expected to achieve greater efficiency at our universities and educational institutions by means of the means that are certainly limited. At least at the same pace, political initiatives on reforms must be taken. And this is the accusation we have to make to you – not that you have to save. This is a situation that shares with all the departments that probably share you with all the science ministers of this continent. However, we urge you not to be able to carry out the essential reform projects at a pace greater than at the rate of snails. This is the central point, and I would like to address it in just a few minutes, and I would like to give you examples. First of all, the University Organisation Act. It was decided in 1993 that with an incredibly long introduction period, the impression is that some of the things that have been written into this university organization law have actually passed away even before it is introduced. It has remained an important political area. But the handling of the study reform is particularly annoyed. I believe that the central point of our miscarriage at the universities concerns the completely inadequate law of study. They have taken an initiative. There is a draft that is already a full year old – since then the operation has stood. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: That is not at all true...!]] Federal Minister! In any event, although the review procedure is 20 months ago, you have not done so, nor has this coalition government been able to forward to Parliament a government proposal on this matter. That's the central point. Time's running out of it. You know very well that the question of drop-offs, duration of study concerns the actual high school policy and, subsequently, social miseries of students. I therefore call on you to present to the Scientific Committee, with extreme consequence - and even if things are perhaps not all perfect - a draft government proposal to which all the political groups in this House can then submit their proposals for reform, so that we can finally and as quickly as possible come to the conclusion of a truly comprehensive study reform. The third point, which is important to me, Mr Federal Minister, is the social situation. We and you know that the social situation of students is seriously affected – and this has been so for years. We are under pressure of savings, that is one thing, but the most important requirement for the social situation of students to improve...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3037	Please pay attention to the time of speech!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3052	The most important prerequisite is that these study reforms take place. And that's what you've been guilty of to Parliament, universities and students.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3082	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3104	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at the comments made by the honourable Member. The long introduction phase of the UOG has been decided upon if you have agreed to the UOG. The UOG has been decided with a precise timetable, and we keep it precisely. There's not a month of delay in this schedule. If you say now that the UOG has a schedule that sets a snail rate, then I can only ask you to consider retrospectively what you could have decided a few years ago. The second, on the law of study: We have reviewed this draft, and it has not been out of the review for 20 months, and I took over this place almost 20 months ago. We have this audited draft with a number of university interest groups, faculties, representations... – Deputies of Freshenschlager! [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager talks to Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Since you have previously asked me to listen to you – just say that is polemics from the government bank – then I invite you to do the same. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Enjoy! I hear!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: The freshener may be a little distracted!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's got other worries now!]] I have to think about this now, but this is at the expense of my speaking time, so I do not think about it. Back to study law: In the meantime, we have adapted this draft, which has been under review, and we will bring it in here in the coming months, when he has been discussed with the university's in-house representative bodies, i.e. the respective faculties, ÖH, Federal Conference, Assistant Association and Cetera. What I certainly do not do is send it to Parliament as a government template, even if it is not yet perfect, as you have said. . I would like to present you with something that can demonstrate the maximum efforts to achieve consensus. That will not be 100 percent, but the maximum effort to present an agreed solution here. And I am very sure that in this calendar year we are still getting this draft so far that we are far-reaching with the universities – far-reaching! - Consensus. When I say "the universities", I mean a lot or most of those affected by the draft. And that is one of the most incisive reform steps that have been taken in recent years in connection with the universities. So to say that we manage budgets, but do not change structures, is incorrect. The evaluation regulation has been completed, has been in review, so it will enter into force. This is a big step that has rightly been called for in discussions. The financial autonomy of the universities, which can already operate after the new UOG, is re-regulated and is still refined with them. This is a big step that has been called for for many years. Another word about the students, because MP Krüger – but he is not there – has spoken about the fact that "in a way" over "many years" has been taken a little away from the social field. I think these measures, which are now being taken, are quite burdensome, and I have declared them publicly again and again. I'm not someone who says that's nothing. But talking about the fact that something has been taken down repeatedly over "many years in a row" is simply wrong. We have a study aid system that has been adapted upwards, in a form which can hardly be demonstrated by another European country. What has happened – and I do not need to tell you – are the measures taken in the area of family allowances and free travel. There are also no radical cuts, but an extension that was made a few years ago has been withdrawn. Harm it! I'm the last one to welcome this. But it is ridiculous to say that "over years of discord" has always been taken down by a system, although every second year the opposite has happened, namely, neat disks have been added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3177	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3198	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I would also like to mention the danger that you are currently interested in something else in this House. . Before that, however, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Lucisch. Mr Lukesch! You have an unqualified idea, so I would say, made by saying: 58 percent of students are opposed to Austrian high schooling. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: He didn't say that! That's a twist!]] Mr Lukesch! This argument can be used against the government at any time, you know as well as I do. And I have not yet heard that the government would have resigned just because the government no longer has a majority in its polls. Mr Lukesch! What you postulate here in relation to the current majority in the high schooling has always been the case. This has also been true of the times when the Forum or the Student Union has set the majority. Only: You didn't appear there and raised this accusation. However, I would like to talk about the "University crisis" and connect the social situation of the students with it, because of course the university's crisis can only be seen in connection with the social situation of the students. Minister! I expect from you, though They are largely not responsible for the fact that you are more committed to the social interests of students than you have done in the last few years with the savings pacts I and II. Minister! The social situation of students has already been discussed a little bit, but I would like to tell you that what you have done with the measures in the Structural Adjustment Act, especially those in the Saving Package II for students, is serious. This is so serious that we really need to discuss it more. There is now a period of study in relation to family allowances. However, Mr Minister, it has not been done by the organisational side, which could actually help to reduce the duration of the study. The family allowance was reduced depending on the duration of the study. The duration of the family allowance was reduced. Nothing has been done that would actually reduce the degree if it were at all possible to do so with simple organizational measures, and if you do not want to do so as you have suggested, that it is radically limited study times in general. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it really serious that as the next item on the agenda, we will adopt a new revision of the contract laws, but at the same time we know that what we decide with these contract laws does not improve students, but, of course, results in a deterioration. The exemption limits for the family allowance are still 3 600 S. The free borders for the works contracts are increased to 7 000 S. A student who earns between 3,000 and 7 000 S with a contract of work has no social security, but he loses family support. This is the reality, Mr Minister, with which you have to deal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The average income of students – which has been shown by your studies – is 6 000 p. That's unacceptable, that's little. And you have done nothing in recent years to improve for students at least in the accompanying measures. Minister! The free travel of students in Vienna has been abolished everywhere – as elsewhere – but it is indescribable that you, Mr Minister, did not vote for the students in Vienna who are planted with a "student ticket". Because this student ticket, this network ticket that students can buy in Vienna, is even more expensive than the network ticket that can be purchased as a normal adult. For the students, the coalition parties demand that they accept all the restrictions. Although they themselves do abolish Parliamentary freedom of movement for parliamentarians in this House, they at the same time approve a fee scheme which will lead to an increased fine for Members.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3235	Please pay attention to the time of speech!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3250	Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! In the future, please accept only more laws in this House, which you can answer before yourself and before your children and your relatives!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3280	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Dr. Riedler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3302	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite interesting to see how Members Krüger and Frischenschlager appear here, like sprung apocalyptic riders. However, one has the impression that their rosers have already become a little lame, because what they have told here is the same thing they told before the summer. There were fears that were formulated at the time, but they did not occur at all, as has been pointed out in the meantime. It's all not true. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not what I am saying alone, but it was the statements of the rectors of the Styrian universities at an event last Monday, an event organized by the Styrian press club. I think it would be very interesting to hear what these undoubtedly critical gentlemen have to say about what has happened or what is going to happen. For example, Rector Konrad, who has repeatedly made a critical statement, said: I'm basically optimistic. Fears that medical students are piling from Vienna to Graz have not occurred. As in recent years, we have around 600 new inscriptions. The medical students still feel very comfortable at the University of Vienna. There are 170 students from abroad who have come to Graz via Erasmus and Socrates programmes – more than ever before, because the foreign students know how good the quality of the Styrian University, the Grazer Karl-Franzens University, is. And he concluded: Joy prevails. Rector Killmann of the Technical University of Graz said: We create the implementation of the UOG 1993 until the end of October – without problems! Savings are possible and necessary in the medium term at my university. It has succeeded in making the start of studies for students easy. The step towards autonomy is a good and right step. Rektor Paschen, also someone who has been critical in the past – before the summer – of the Montanuni in Leoben – said this is after all the third most successful university in Europe: We could train more students than we are at the moment. ==References== In December 1995, we implemented the UOG without any problems and have had good experience with it. Director Kollerritsch of the Musikhochschule in Graz said: The savings considerations have positive aspects. I have 33 percent foreign students at my university, and it works perfectly. I do not want to leave an incomplete impression here regarding these statements and I would therefore also like to address the concerns expressed at this event. For example, it has been said that about 5 per cent of the planned posts are currently not occupied, that the rectors want to transform independent non-scientific staff, that they want to negotiate their budget more independently, that they also want more flexibility in the post-society field, and that they require timely information on the number of teaching assignments for the summer semester of 1997; in particular for visiting professors. I believe that these are the concerns that are justified. But there are also discussions that can be found as good a solution as possible on an exchange of views. Ladies and gentlemen! Before the horses of the "apocalyptic riders" finally go down and the protagonists, i.e. these riders, who would have to carry their saddles themselves at the back, I would recommend you listen to a biterl into the universities and get acquainted with the experiences that those who have been directly involved in science policy. As Mr Konrad mentioned, has the book title that is currently in place in Germany, namely the book by Peter Glotz, "Is the Unis rotting in the core?", said: In Austria, the universities are healthy in the core. – I think you should take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3358	The next speaker is Mr Brader. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3379	Mr President. Minister! High house! A lot of criticism was brought by my previous speakers, which had been covered in some areas. However, I would like to say that my previous speakers were in principle right in some areas. For me, there is no doubt that we have a lot to change at the university. My previous speaker spoke a lot about this, I can only agree with it. However, I should like to make it clear that I am too little in favour of an increased supply of funds alone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the contrary: I am firmly convinced that if you simply increase the funds and do not put in place any sort of measures, nothing will go on. The fact is that, despite other forecasts, more maturants are streaming to the university. What makes me so sad – I say this as a reader – is that so many are among them who actually do not know what they really want, or what demands are placed on them. This unfortunate fact, therefore, also leads many to change or cancel very quickly. I believe, however, that it is not only the university that can be held responsible, but it is here that we have to appeal to our own responsibility. It is primarily the task of students to obtain information – long before – and to see if one can meet these requirements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that in all areas – that is true for studies and also for the time before the studies – we must promote self-performance, increase self-motivation. I think it is not a matter of treating young students like middle schoolers. That's not supposed to be an excuse! However, those who are unable to obtain information about their studies independently do not have the ability to acquire independent knowledge and thus no university maturity. Another reason for this is the fact that many students have not grown in university requirements; they are leaving. And I think they should make this experience as early as possible because they save themselves empty kilometers and lost semesters. In addition to all these internal university problems, I would like to address the subject of higher education. I think that is a very good institution. The lively inflow to these schools proves that they are close to life, that they offer what young people need. And I think that we need to promote these areas more effectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means that the University of Applied Sciences will be re-established as soon as possible. This includes extending the vocational education plan, and this includes talking about new student financing models, not only in the field of the university.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3447	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3468	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to say that it is absolutely incorrect to speak of a "university crisis" – it has rightly emphasized the many previous speakers. In this context, I would also like to thank all those colleagues at the University, who, especially during the last summer semester, at a time when the so-called strike has become completely absurd, maintained the teaching business, and also those students who went to the lectures and did not get away with this final phase of the "streik", which – I repeat it again – was completely absurd. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As much as my respect applies to universities in this respect, I do not want to hide that I believe that the universities could make a little more out of their capacities. I am not entirely convinced that, for example, in order to mention details, the space at the universities is used accordingly, that the courses, in particular the teaching assignments, are distributed accordingly and others more. I believe that the universities are invited to make even more use of their autonomy, which they already have. But I am not saying this to relieve the state and the relevant ministries. But before that, I would like to hold a little more. There are, I think, a number of completely false perspectives. Here, too, just a few examples: I think it absolutely incorrect, at least partially incorrect, to talk about the social situation of students constantly. At least it is also to be said about the social situation of the parents of the students. One cannot ignore the fact that the students are actually received from the parents and because of an existing maintenance obligation. In other words, social losses have to suffer not only the students, but mostly the parents of the students. In this context, I would like to make one more comment: I find it completely wrong to talk about the student or the student as if it were about a profession, such as the worker, the commercial employee. Being a student is a transit phase, is a learning process that has to be completed sometime. That is why every argument that we have here, so to speak, a population that has to live at 6 000 s per month is probably correct, but in the overall view it is wrong. For the student is not a profession comparable to other occupations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to stress something: I also find the perspective wrong to talk about the "disasteral low rate" of academics. – Not only because the Minister of State has correctly stated that in other countries, for example, what is the Matura in us, but because this finding is not logically tolerated with the other fact – which is saddened – that there would be academic unemployment. So if there is a logical sheer, then you also have to consider whether logic is on one or on the other part of the sheer. Of course, there is a growing number of students – apologise for mentioning this banality – and, of course, there is an increased interest in university education – which is related to it. But there is the question: Why is that so? . Here I would like to point out a point that I believe he has been missed in the comments – I do not want to talk about discussion – so far. Why is that so? – Apparently, the education offer outside universities is too low at this level, and secondly, the Matura graduates clearly produce past the market, because if it were so that the Matura is still a vocational training per se, it is likely that fewer people would go to the university. But the AHS also produces past the universities, namely insofar as very few are mature due to the maturity certificate for university learning in the sense of learning technology. In short: My accusation or my request in connection with this accusation is to seriously break my head over what should happen to the Matura. I see there as a very essential point of departure for a more reasonable education policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3531	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3553	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The reaction of the Federal Minister Scholten to the speech of my colleague Dr. Frischenschlager needs a correct position, especially because it is not unacceptable that the Liberals should be held hostage as opposition in this House for those mistakes made by the government parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] The Liberal Forum, ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning has criticized the UOG as a half-hearted reform, Mr Luke, and it has been stoned and clear from this pult. That's what my colleague Klara Motter did. I still know that very well because we have also taken a stand against it, ladies and gentlemen, that what is being discussed again, namely that institutions should have a certain minimum size, has been removed from the UOG's draft at that time, although it was already in it. We criticised this from this pult at the time, we also criticised the fact that the medium-term construction is not involved in the operational bodies, and we have expressedly condemned, Minister of State, which over long transitional periods of the UOG 1993. And that was with one of the main reasons why we did not give our consent to this law. But it went on even further: If, in the course of the implementation of this law, you consider that the savings package has ultimately been discussed at universities, for example, to suspend the implementation of this law, because the funds do not exist, because the additional burden is so great and cannot be dealt with by those resources made available by the Federal Government, then you will not be able to agree on the correctness of this criticism today, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also true that not only the university staff are burdened with great burdens in this context which endanger the implementation of the UOG, but of course it is also true that the burden on students due to the savings package has been very high, thus greatly hindering them in their progress as students. If you only think that the departure of free travel for students to the university can be an additional burden of up to 4,000 s a year, for students from the nearby area of Vienna even up to 18,000 s a year, then it is clear that this is a special burden for both these students and their parents and families. The limitation of study duration – better said: the period of reference for family aid – coupled with the minimum duration of studies plus two semesters, is also a measure which is not targeted, because of course one also has to talk about in which areas of study in which the study plans are completely overloaded. That is why it is simply not possible, Mr Luke, for people to finish at this time. And that will also be a burden to these people to feel, and that is expected to be about the thumb for some of them a loss of income of up to 22,000 s. It is quite clear, Mr Luke: In the panic-like acquisition of money, which was ultimately the reason for this savings package and which you have also agreed to, one has forgotten to evaluate completely, one has forgotten the impact that this will have on universities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] We will also talk today about the contract regulations in which you have also failed to reflect on the effects. You have also risen to that, and today you will get up again, and it will not help anything again because the same mistakes are contained in this law again. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Again, ladies and gentlemen: The Liberals cannot be held hostage for those mistakes decided by the government parties here in the house, because of a government proposal you received from this Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3622	This concludes the current hour. I would like to thank the Federal Minister Dr. Scholten, who will be represented for today by another colleague of the Federal Government. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3646	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3765	I would like to point out that the Commissioners, Dr. Freisenschlager and Comrades, have called for urgent consideration of the written question 1284/J put to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning an employment and environmental tax reform, which was put into the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Under the Rules of Procedure, urgent procedure shall take place at least three hours after receipt of the agenda. As we are going to go into the agenda in a few minutes, I shall determine the beginning of the negotiation of the urgent question at 3.30 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3789	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Members Wabl and Comrades have requested that the Building Committee report on the motion for a resolution 137/A (E) on the repeal of the regulation on the road path of the B 146, so-called Ennsnahe Trasse, be limited to one. ==References== In this context, the figure of five Members is in accordance with § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As the urgent debate is already under way for today's sitting, the brief debate will take place following this urgent request. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3816	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 4, 5 to 7 and 8 and 9 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3841	I shall now go into the agenda. The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates on the entire agenda. Accordingly, a block speaking time of a total of eight "Vienna hours" has been agreed for all agenda items. This gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. Consensus has been reached on this proposal. Is there any objections in the plenary? – There are no objections to this. That is why the unilateral decision has been made. Mr Wabl has reported on business treatment. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3876	Mr President. To my amazement, I have found that a Member of the Liberal Forum has taken his place in the Freedoms and Freedoms Club. Paragraph 7 of our Rules of Procedure reads as follows: "Deputies of the same campaigning party have the right to join in a club. ... Members who do not belong to the same candidate party can only join in a club with the approval of the National Council." How can I take up Mr Firlinger's change of place?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3906	Deputies! I can only say the following: I received a letter on the withdrawal of Mr Firlinger from the Liberal Forum and his wish to join the Liberal Group. At the same time, the wish to assign him a seat in this sector was expressed. I received this letter here during my presidency. I have handed it over to Parliament's management to all members of the Presidential Conference for information – I suppose that this has already happened or will happen in the next few minutes – and in the meantime, while I am chairing here, I am also considering whether and what reasons should be taken out of this matter. I haven't made any decisions yet. I am unable to hold the Presidency and to do other things at the same time. I have therefore not yet assigned a seat. I have not noticed until the second that Mr Oellinger – Pardon: Firlinger – took a seat there. [[General hustle and bustle.]] I have not yet noticed that Mr Firlinger has taken his place there. This is not a place assigned to you, Mr Firlinger. . I do not continue to check whether the Members are sitting in those places assigned to them. I notice: No new seat has been assigned to Member Firlinger until the hour. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] – Another word on business treatment. - Please, colleague Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3948	Mr President. I suggest that, after the end of today's plenary session, we hold a presidential conference to discuss this question.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3972	This too is already in the way. A presidential conference will be held after the end of today's session, but there will be no oral cancellations on the dates of the presidential conference. She'll take place. There are no further statements on business treatment. I declare once again that no changes have been made in the seating plan, as it has been declared, until the hour. 1. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the application 289/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a federal law with which the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Allowances Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Federal Law on the Collection of a Housing Funding Contribution, BGBl. No. 13/1952, as last amended by the Federal Act BGBl. No. 376/1986, amended (125 of the supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 284/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidtand comrades concerning the abolition of the provisions on the social security obligation of works and so-called free service contracts (326 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal 287/A by Mr Hermann Böhackerund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act and the Income Tax Act 1988 (327 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 292/A (E) by Mr Karl Öllingerond Comrades on the suspension of the existing working contract system and time limit for the regulation of work and social legislation of precarious working conditions (328 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4060	This brings us to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are: Reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the requests 289/A by Mrs Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and others, concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act and other laws (125 of the Supplements), 284/A by Dr Schmidt and others, on the abolition of provisions on the social security obligation of works contracts and so-called "free service contracts" (326 of the supplements), 287/A by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act and the Income Tax Act 1988 (327 of the Supplements) and 292/A (E) by Mr Öllinger and Mr Comrades, on the suspension of the existing contract and period for the employment and social legislation of precarious working conditions (328 of the supplements). I do not have a wish for oral reporting, which is why it is missing. The speaking times are known. First of all, Mr Böhacker. Speaking time maximum 20 minutes, voluntary speaking time: 9 minutes. – Would you like to have the voluntary speaking time set? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4103	Mr President. Dear Mr. "Employed Contract Minister" Hums! High house! [[Abg. Koppler: That was good!]] Mr Reitsamer's motion for a resolution, Mr Feurstein, is the equally desperate and inadequate attempt to reorganise the contract law by means of a repair law to the repair law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – This is a project that has been condemned from the outset to failure. Mr. Labour Contract Minister! Rather, a camel goes through the famous coniferous tube than these work contract provisions can be rehabilitated! Only one, Minister: The diletantic procedure of the government parties is really unreasonable. There is a legal uncertainty in Austria, which can no longer be overcome. Federal Minister! Who takes over the costs, the costs of economic damage that you have caused with these provisions? Who pays the training, the training of tens of thousands of employees in the enterprises? Who pays for the IT conversions, which had to be carried out several times, because they have been changed over and over again? Who pays for the specialized literature? You, Mr. Minister, withdraw and emphasize. As a spiritual guardian of this contract, they emphasize how Weiland Hesoun in Hainburg. And you, Minister, will still have the money to pay for it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who, Mr Minister, has deserved this scheme so far? – As a rule, high and highest ministerial officials who have moved through the countries and have explained and taught rules that have not yet entered into force and which have been constantly changed. Federal Minister! This has resulted in a millions of economic damage, and you bear the responsibility for it! But, of course, They say again: We need this to protect the Solidarity Community, to secure the social network. – Minister of State! This statement is a non-surpassing type of hypocrisy! It was a very different starting point: It was financial resources that you wanted to make up for the budget. I have an unwarranted witness, Mr. Stummful, who explained on Thursday, 8th. August 1996, in the "Economic Sheet": The political requirement was to consider how funds for the budget can be made available through works contracts. That was the real reason! Not the solidarity community, not the protection of the weak! How else could you agree with a derogation which, in fact, is socially weak, which excludes colporteurs from the insurance obligation, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They don't talk to the socially weak. This work contract scheme is absolutely anti-female because it is becoming dependent on more and more women who have had a little to do with it. Federal Minister! It really can't be that way! In addition, you will have the opportunity to avoid entrepreneurs from a genuine contract of service in a so-called free contract of employment – with the result that those so-called free employees have no minimum wage, no unemployment benefit, no holiday allowance, no paid holiday, no protection against arbitrary termination. – And that is what you, Federal Minister, want to represent as a Social Democratic? – I no longer understand your world, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Delete Memo? They have all this matter under control, shows a statement by the colleague Reitsamer from 3rd century onwards. In June 1996, via APA: Social partners and economic loyals – negotiations have already progressed so far that the implementation of the scheme by 1. In July 1996, it was announced that it would be possible for the Commission to take a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women to take part in the work of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. – This must be broken on the tongue: The social spokesperson of the Social Democrats explains: The implementation of this scheme is as follows: 1. In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and Today, three months later, we are negotiating a repair law. Mrs. Reitsamer! Has You really don't know about the matter? – If so, I would ask you: Read the requests for freedom of movement, and vote with us for an irreplaceable abolition of all these absurd provisions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But also the Austrian People's Party, which seems to be unable to break free from the hostagery of the Social Democrats, plays a sad double-bedded game here. ==References== According to Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, on July 26, 1996 it was called: Social insurance obligations for works contracts wrong, will not exist. The regulation is not practical and only a short-term business, says Vice-Chancellor Schüssel. In the light of the Vienna election campaign, Vienna's VP-Parteiobmann Görg called for the immediate suspension of this work contract system to house signatures, so that he would probably leave them at the "Salzamt" because he will only encounter rejection at his own party. The Vienna People's Party therefore calls for the new regulation to be repealed immediately, according to Görg. But it's going a lot further. Unfortunately, my colleague is not stupid here. [[Intervocations with the liberals as well as with the ÖVP.]] Frontal attack of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce against works contracts. - Where's the frontal handle? – I think the shot went to its own knees. What does Mr. Stumbling say? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This paper war was too big, and the agreement had to be withdrawn. Finally, Mrs Cordula Frieser said that everyone was a political blatant who insisted on working contract rules. . I am going to look at the vote here today carefully, who will reject the request for freedom of movement for the abolition of the contract. For these colleagues here in the House can be freely referred to as "political fools" after Cordula Frieser!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4196	What you can say in a press service can't be said in the high house. I would like to draw attention to this. [[Abg. Böhacker: I just quoted!]] - Yes, yes. The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4225	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are actually dealing with an infinite story about the works contracts, but it is always presented as if the government parties were evil, as if they were just about a money acquisition action. [[Abg. Meisinger: After what? That's nothing else!]] – That is your opinion, and I can express my opinion here if it is right, Mr Meisinger! We are concerned with the prohibition of circumvention. [[Call to the liberals:Ha ha ha!]] If we say so, the accusation of the money-raising action always comes again and again. Why, then, was this work contract scheme necessary at all? – There was more and more the intention to undermine social security, the solidarity of the insured. [[Abg. Meisinger: The Socialists cannot operate!]] More and more possibilities for escape from labour law have been sought. I should also like to make a point on the tongue from the request of the liberals. They write: "social deterioration for employees by avoiding companies on the cheaper new types of contracts with less social security". – It is true that there is less social security in these contracts, but so far they have been excluded from insurance at all. That's why I can't understand your argument! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is also of great concern to you is that, in the case of works contracts, co-insurance would, so to speak, be abolished through the back door. I can tell you one thing: Any worker who earns an amount above the limit of low-capacity will now pay his contributions. As soon as he starts working, he pays contributions – whether he has a working spouse or not. Why do you see this differently in the work contracts? – I really don't understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] There were different motives for the attempts to escape into precarious employment conditions, but primarily they were financial in nature. In my opinion, however, there has been far too little discussion of the absence of social security protection for this group, which already has a very low income. It was not a matter of criticizing the contract rules. In recent times, ladies and gentlemen, working conditions have become very different, and they have developed very differently. I am just an example of teleworking, here at the meeting, and with that there were more and more circumvention possibilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr Böhacker! Listen Briefly connect and Link You're not always three! I've listened to you, too, but you're obviously stuck up. If it's fun, please, don't bother me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Böhacker.]] It would be useful to finally impose a uniform worker concept, but this does not go from today to tomorrow, a worker's concept and a social security obligation from the low level to the maximum contribution basis. [[Congratulations at SPÖ and the Liberal Forum]] This is the objective we have set ourselves here. This adaptation of the worker concept, ladies and gentlemen, would gradually also result in the abolition of exceptions in the ASVG, and this must be a further objective. I am therefore pleased that Mr Hostasch will be bringing forward today a motion for a resolution which deals with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! The contract arrangement was difficult – admittedly – because of the demarcation: Conditions of employment, freedom to provide services, service-like contracts of work and real contracts of work. The negotiations on the corrections also focused on individual scientists. They've been picked up. For example, Professor Tomandel has put in place a proposal which, in the end, did not find a majority that would have included the real works contracts in this scheme. Then the demarcation would certainly not have been so difficult. What came out is a compromise. For example, the application on suspicion will be withdrawn, there are changes at the flat-rate limit, and there will also be a refund of too many paid social security contributions. So far, this has only been the case for employees and pension insurance contributions. They could be requested back by application or led to a high level insurance. In the case of health insurance contributions, this is also true for workers. There was then a requirement for the ÖVP to also repay employers' contributions. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] – Mr Oillinger! I am now reporting on negotiations that you were not involved in, so please do not say: That's not true. - That's where we've got some understanding problems. The ÖVP also wanted the employers' contributions back. It was incomprehensible to me. This is a legitimate concern, but I think there will be no one so unskilled and one and the same workers will report twice by 25 000 s and pay twice for 25 000 s contributions. I can't imagine that. It is then reported by 50 000 S and is paid by the 39 000 S which are currently the maximum contribution base. Or if there are several employers and if the employee receives an income above the maximum contribution basis, the question arises which employer can then ask back. That was a very long issue. Has come out: If there are actually too many paid employers' contributions, they will flow into a fund for apprentices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] You didn't understand that at all, but that's your problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koppler and call to the liberals.]] I didn't say that, but he didn't understand. You don't need to defend him. He's got a mouth himself, Mr. Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is only to be expected from this title in the coming year that there will be around 40 million schilling. This is what I see in my argument that I was right in the deliberations. I would like to express the hope that today we can do something that is very dear to my heart. Under the Structural Adjustment Act, the retirement age was raised from 55 to 57 years due to reduced employability for men. This also affects those approximately 1,000 long-term unemployed – at the time workers of steel-producing plants in Styria – of the 1993 crisis regional regime. People have trusted in this agreement! [[Abg. Meisinger: Many people have trusted in the socialist government and have been disappointed!]] Well, if they trust you, they will only experience blue miracles, Mr Meisinger! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, we try the best possible way for people, even if we are faced with difficult conditions. I do not want to comment on what your populist policy says here. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] These people have thus given up their jobs in confidence in the agreement at that time to younger colleagues. [[Abg. Meisinger: A barrel without a floor!]] There is now a need for emergency aid and a significant reduction in income between unemployment benefits and the actual retirement. And I mean, we could fix that if we say, Who before the 1st. In the case of unemployment benefit, the old scheme should be able to retire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We're still talking to our coalition partner about it. It may be possible to negotiate a junkim, but I am confident that it may be possible to regulate it today and here under one.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4407	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4429	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the opposition, we are asking ourselves whether it is very objective to take the floor from this item if, without being a blind eye, one can predict that the voting behaviour of the members of the government groups is relatively certain. I say "relative" because what is already a hundred percent? Since this matter was declared a "chef" we have to experience that the discussions have taken on a very strange character, namely the character of the speech by the colleague Reitsamer, whom she has just presented. For example, it was not really discussed in the Committee, but today it reports on negotiations. – Of what negotiations? From the negotiations of the bosses, because it's "chef" or from the negotiations of the chiefs' bars, because the bosses have their bars negotiated? What is she talking about? I have so far been of the naïve opinion that at least in the committees such negotiations are taking place that at least in the committees there are positions which speak a clearer language than the mere papers that are presented to us. I am aware of this, Mrs Reitsamer, but at the same time I am drawing a certain degree of optimism from this statement that you have made. Although the "chef" is and although we have come here today to decide on a "final" repair for the second time, I dare another prognosis – such as the voting behaviour of the government parties –: There will be a next "final" repair, quite sure. I hope that this will really be a final repair, because what you are presenting here for decision is a deterioration of what it was before. The regulation was already bad enough: It was unequitable, it has assumed an expropriatory character, it was hardly manageable, it may have been a pseudo-work procurement programme for bureaucracy – but it was not a solution to the problem, namely the problem of how the solidarity can be put back on a common compulsory insurance basis, which is called insurance and not compulsory insurance. This has already been said by the speaker's desk. I am surprised that, although it is said here from the pult, there is no real place in the discussions on the work of Parliament. This is a defunctionalisation of the Committee's work and it is, of course, particularly painful to hear from the chairmen of the Committee. Reason for the thesis that it has become even worse than it was: We had already discovered several inequalities of equality in the previous regulation, but now we have added a further inequality. So there are now two types of anti-equalities: on the one hand, the inequality as with the tailor who makes two pants and two saccos, and the tailor who makes two suits – you remember the very impressive example of Professor Doralt –: He is once self-employed, once employed. But of course, that's not the same thing, because you already have a house mind saying: It's exactly the same thing he does, and that can't even be treated like that once and for all. – This is the irregularity of equality due to the lack of legal knowledge of the authors of the text – Typus A. Typus B is the intentional inequality: two limits of weakness for the same type of employment. That type of employment, which happened to happen unhappily in the contractual relationship of the service contract, has the lower limit of 3 600 S; the employee-like, who unfortunately has a contract of employment – or fortunately, you can then choose it – has the lower limit of 7 000 S. This is an intentional inequality, and of course it is much worse than that due to ignorance. If someone does not have the legal system under control and makes a legal mistake, then it is bad enough, and at least this should be noticed and repaired here in this House – but will not take place because the voting behaviour is established – but the intentional inequality is a serious mistake, namely a political error quite different dimension. People are told that there are two classes with two different limits – and that is quite unbearable. If it is said as a reason that it was a compromise, I wonder: What kind of compromise? A compromise in the matter – or a compromise exclusively for maintaining the coalition? – I say to you: It was a compromise exclusively for the second purpose. And I think this is very, very bad, because compromises, which have only more of this purpose, compromises for their own purpose, are exactly what makes people suspicious, which makes them absurd, which shakes confidence in politics. It sees a blind man with the crutch stick, which kind of compromise this is! And since the 7 000 S may be a reasonable limit of defiance – but then please for all. I believe that the ÖVP has tried to preserve a face-to-face compromise. In reality, however, it was a purely pragmatic compromise to maintain the coalition. It is no longer surprising that the rule of law does not play a particularly prominent role in these considerations. ==References====External links== October date of issue of notifications. I believe that there is consensus about this, which can be read in the federal law paper – in the same federal law paper we refer the citizens to when they ask us: Where's what's right? – Today we are debating a change – and it will probably be decided – of the date to 1. November. The Federal Council will also have to deal with it, then it will be in the Federal Law, and only from that date will the date 1. ==References== This can be predicted, but this is not a method of legal interpretation! The prediction of likely decisions is not a method of legal interpretation. I must therefore say: They deliberately do something here that undermines the rule of law. They call out to the citizens from the speaker's desk and through the media: ==References== October in the law, but you don't need to stick to it, because we'll soon be 1. It was decided in November. So think about what that means for legal certainty when, in a republic like ours, the rule of law is temporarily suspended by means of media calls. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] .. Further constitutional illegality: expropriating character of the law. We have only had one form so far, now we have two forms. As far as the basis of assessment is concerned, it has not been re-founded. We've changed this a little bit, now we've got two guys. We have the type: above the basis of assessment, and it is not re-founded when the service provider-like contributions pass through the basis of assessment. They will continue to be expropriated. Because, in fact, they have to be repaid, everyone knows that. They are now dedicated to apprentices, that is, to a positive use, and therefore it is said that expropriation is not so bad. I'll tell you: Injustice does not succeed. Disadvantaged money will not be better money for you to carry it out for a good purpose! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Eligible character Type 2: on the basis of assessment for the provisional calculation. There's something you've been thinking about, that's great. The contractor has an irregular income, which you have already noticed. That is, if you want to simplify your administration, you ask him to make a monthly average. This is the so-called provisional general basis of contribution. If he estimates that he will earn 12 000 S a month, then the 12 000 S will calculate and deduct social security. But what if, at the end of the reference period, it turns out that it was only 9 000 S? – You have realized that this would, of course, be bad, because then you might have to give something back. Therefore, you have written in the law: If the provisional contribution basis is higher than the calculated final contribution basis, the provisional contribution basis shall be considered as a definitive contribution basis. In other words: If someone is wrong with his disfavor, then he's had bad luck, then he's paid for 12,000 s, even though he'd only have to pay for 9,000 s. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But only in a particular case!]] In the opposite case, if he estimates 9 000 s and it turns out afterwards that it is 12 000 S, you naturally think he has to pay back. – The second part is still plausible, the first part is a new type of expropriation. And I'll tell you: This is another reason for a constitutional challenge. This constitutional challenge would be quite simple. In fact, it is only necessary to list all the fundamental rights that exist and to apologize politely to the Constitutional Court that one may have taken in an excess. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But that's not a challenge yet! The list of fundamental rights is not yet a challenge!]] Mr Kostelka! They may laugh at it, but I do not think it is funny because this is the rule of law, which is exclusively for the purpose of not damaging the kitt of the coalition – and that is not a good reason. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Against the background of these monstrosities in the rule of law, it is no wonder that you have nothing to do with data protection and similar things at all. Mrs Reitsamer said that the reports on suspicion should no longer be made. – This is quite logical, because you have replaced it with a new notification mechanism of your own kind. Any relevant contractual relationship over 3,600 S must be notified to the tax authorities. – As far as, as good as possible, control notifications to prevent tax evasion; everything must be reported. But then there is a separate section that you will decide today – I do not assume that you will still change it, that we have made a fair effort in the Committee and that we have met with deaf ears – which the Federal tax authorities have to send to the social security institutions the content of these reports. In other words, it is no longer necessary to make a provisional or precautionary notification, but you do not need it either, because the social security funds receive all the data from the tax authorities. All social security institutions must be given this logically, because from where should the poor tax authority know whether Mr. XY or Mrs. AB may have a service relationship at the Burgenlander Landeskrankenkasse, but unfortunately in Salzburg has a work contract or vice versa, whether she is perhaps a by-productor and works somewhere in Carinthia or Tyrol on a seasonal basis in the employee-like contract? – So all social security funds need to be informed about all data. However, this is a real job creation programme for bureaucracy. I believe that this will not be understood by the public, especially as we have heard: The bureaucracy should become slimmer, in public Service is reformed and so on. You may not have understood that what you understand as "self-organized social security" has long been bureaucracy and is no longer social and not insurance at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why, at the end of my speech, I should like to say once again: We need a real reform which cannot be denied that we must first redefine the concept of a worker. We are entirely with you when you say that the concept of service needs to be redefined, especially in view of the public service and the harmonisation needs there. There is still another point on the agenda on the right to serve today, which will certainly become more "hidden". However, the social security obligation could be fixed to income, regardless of the concept of employment, on the part of the self-employed as well as on the self-employed. And if you use the financial authorities as an instrument for determining the annual income, you have the same data available for determining the social security obligation as the Financial Office for Tax Aspects, and you can introduce the general social security obligation. They should only allow the insured to choose from the wealth of social security institutions one of their choice, at least in the field of health insurance. But that would, of course, be possible for the powerful citizens. They're just talking about it, but they're trying to prevent it. The law, therefore, is also a preventive law for powerful citizens, I say quite clearly to you. If you do not achieve this real reform, because neither the political will nor the kitt in the coalition has a real reform, then you have not understood that the employee-like contract of work is much more similar to the self-employed professional position than the self-employed. Have you never thought about the GSVG? I have presented it to you in the Committee – it has even been heard with interest, but some prefer to listen to the arguments, because otherwise they may have to deal with them as well. Have you never thought about that? It's probably an ideological dispute. One thinks, if it falls under the ASVG, that the number of servants is increased, the others think, if it falls under the GSVG, the number of self-employed is increased. But it can't be! One cannot argue for such prestige and, in principle, leave people insecure. The 7 000 S deficit limit has the unpleasant side effect that the social objective of the law you claim will not be achieved at all. This is very revealing, and it is not surprising that the exceptions for BFI and WIFI continue to be maintained. You won't put your own clientele under pressure! In the Committee, Mr Feurstein told me that the WIFIs and the BFIs were in such a difficult budgetary situation. I have said that we know that, but the cultural scene, the companies are in the same difficult situation. However, they are not protected and public, and that is a big difference. If you are protected and public, then the argument is that you are in a difficult situation, all at once very weighty – I think, mainly because they are your own people. But if you only make more politics for your own people and claim that it is politics for people, then you expose yourself. We will not get tired of the Liberal Forum to say exactly that to everyone, and again and again. We thank you cynically for taking this really unbearable decision today, because the issue is not on the agenda. The surface resistance is greater than you suspect. The signal effect of the resistance is thus on the 1. This may have been a little bit of a twist on November. ==References== October it would have increased starkness – so it will wait until after the election of Europe until after the election of Vienna. – I believe that this is a very bad policy both in terms of content and in stylistic terms, and it is revealing: for only more kitt for the coalition, that is a little bit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4511	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4532	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that during the summer there have been a number of critical comments on the work contract regulations, on the changes in social security law which we decided before the summer. We have taken all these critical comments seriously. We have dealt with them and have also tried to give answers to them. But a critical note which Mr Kier has just repeated, namely the example of the suits made by the tailor, is totally empty. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Nicer.]] A tailor that produces suits, a tailor that produces pants, a tailor that produces skirts, is clearly subject to social security after the GSVG. You won't have meant the work of a black man. That would be the only consequence. I do not assume that you have taken this example. I can tell you that I have been talking to many and I wanted to know what is behind these critical remarks. [[Abg. Meisinger: Many scumbags!]] There was a critical remark which stated that in the case of free service contracts, in the case of service-like employment relationships, if, for example, a woman is working at an opinion research institute and deserves 5 000 s, then this woman who urgently needs this income should not be required social security contributions and a deduction tax. - I saw that. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have therefore gone up to 7 000 s with the free limit – the duty to deduct starts at 8 000 s per month – because we have seen this problem. [[Abg. Böhacker: You don't meet the problem, that's just going to be a shift!]] Yes, we have made a change there, and this change is also correct. Second point. It has been said that, in many cases, applications must also be made where there is no social security obligation. We made this clear. There must be a notification based on a free contract of services, a servicer-like relationship only if the social security obligation is clearly defined. So no record of suspicion, no report as originally claimed by the economic fidelities, from a limit of 3,600 p. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The financial offices!]] The economic loyals have issued this in a press release. In this case, no notification shall be made, but only if the social security obligation is clearly expected. So a clear statement and a clear statement. And please: If there is a social security obligation, a registration should also be made. I can also show you how easy this registration can be. [[The speaker shows a form.]] They probably do not know the form imposed by the social security funds. Simple application, where you only need to specify: Date of birth, expected income, start of insurance – and cancellation is similar. So no complicated bureaucracy, as this is always claimed here. But one point of criticism, which has also come from the opposition committee, we have not been able to take note of the demand that all incomes of employment should be included in the social security obligation. This would have irresponsible consequences if we were to include all incomes in social security obligations, as that was repeatedly demanded by science and various other parties. Deputies Kier! It would also not have been possible to solve this problem in such a way as to involve all these persons in industrial social security. Because the problems with subsidiarity – we have a subsidiarity with the commercial insured, we have a subsidiarity with the health insurance in the Farm Social Security Act – would have come to the table. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: With a two-thirds majority, you will still be able to do this!]] I would have liked to see you comment on these issues, but you did not! You have kept silent that this problem is linked to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't think of that!]] I note, therefore, that all incomes are not included. We only want to include those incomes in the social security obligation, where there are free service contracts, where there is service-like employment, where the individual contractor is in a dependency relationship with the client or with the service provider. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Prusher maybe, tax evaporators!]] We have also taken these proposals seriously when we were told there was a circumvention of the previous law. . On these points, we have made many changes and have responded to proposals, to critical comments. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: From the Prusher Movement!]] Yes, we are concerned that, where social security is required, we also express this social security obligation clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to stress: An important effect of these new legal provisions was that all those who are self-employed in the economy have now reported to commercial social insurance. Some in the media even speak of a "flow" of registrations at the Industrial Social Insurance Institute. It is also true that those people who are self-employed now also commit themselves to this self-employed activity and take advantage of this possibility of insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: They were due before!]] That is what we want, and that is what we have achieved. Another point you have raised. Mr Kier, I am very serious about your objections. They claimed that the local health phone didn't control this. I read to you from a letter that has not been ordered, but that comes from a department head of a district health insurance fund. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Do you also get ordered letters?]] It was not a letter I received, but he was addressed to someone else; I got it in copy. That's what it says – that was at the end of August: We've got the situation under control. A chaos, as some would have liked, cannot be spoken of in our area. [[Abg. Böhacker: They are all held back, the registrations!]] I quote from this letter: Of course, there are a lot of written and oral questions, but in our opinion we answer them properly. After the end of the holiday period there will certainly be many more questions. Many have also pushed out the subject so far. But we will clarify these cases. Then it says there that this "recommendation" of the Liberal Forum, namely to ask a questionnaire that thank God is not given. – Four cases have occurred at the Vorarlberg County Hospital, which have followed this recommendation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Kier loses his people who go to the Freeman!]] Finally, I would like to make it clear: The issue of demarcation between industrial social security obligations and social security obligations under the General Social Insurance Act is one that will be further addressed and further clarified in the course of the development. That is why we, the government parties, have agreed – Mrs Hostasch will be submitting a resolution to this effect – that this question of basic insurance obligations is, of course, another issue that we need to address. This concern to clarify the overall assessment of social security obligations is a very important point, but not in the sense that we have an insurance obligation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We want to maintain compulsory social security insurance. This makes us completely different from what the liberals are propagating and where they are really on the way to wood.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4755	Mr Dr Kier, rapporteur, spoke to the House for an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, including in the new form, that the speaking time may not exceed two minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4788	I actually have to correct: My colleague, Mr Feurstein, said that I would have claimed that the local health phone did not control this. I didn't say that! I said: The local health phone will not be able to handle this when the applications come – which, of course, only come to the deadline. That is why this is factual and, in fact, incorrect. Mr Feurstein also meant that I would have said that the tailor is equal to the trader. I said: There is the tailor who works self-employed, and there is the tailor who works independently. They are now being confused at once. – Please, that's something different than what you put in my mind. Probably simply for the same reasons, because of legal ignorance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4821	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4843	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the spring of this year it was when we had to meet here in this House to change the contract rules for the first time. In summer, just before the beginning of the summer break, we met for the second time. At that time, Mr Minister, I told you: We will soon come back to a new innovation. - That's what happened. Now there is a new revision of the contract regulations. Not enough with this, Minister: It was also true that at the first revision – I would like to recapitulate it here again, because I would also remind Members in this House that they bear responsibility to the citizen, but also to themselves – no Member in this House, except those who have negotiated, knew what it is all about. This has also been confirmed in the debate on the work contract rules. It has been confirmed! [[Abg. Hostifical denied.]] Mrs. Hostasch, of course you can shake your head – I know exactly. In the Committee on Budgets, we have decided to amend a regulation which had to be renewed in the plenary debate because it did not vote. – That was the first innovation. So who knows anything if the Members who have decided to do so in committee did not even know that they decided to adopt a system that was not right — see exception for colporteurs? – That is why it has been organized for the plenary session in such a way that it really voted for the media print. They tried before, but they didn't like it. - Well, that was the first innovation. Then came the second revision, now comes the third revision, and at the same time – that is quite positive to see – there is a motion for a resolution that does not announce the fourth revision, but a general repair. This general repair is quite positive – if it succeeds. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that it was we who called for this repair to be made by the end of 1997. By the end of 1997, all employment conditions, all contractual relations, all incomes, including those of officials, which is now included in your application, and also the social security obligation, must be re-ordered accordingly. In this respect, this request is positive. But that you can't confess to withdraw a completely buffered contract scheme that you haven't gotten on your feet until then, just because she can't help anyone anymore, I don't understand. Mr Feurstein! Your report "We have the situation under control" sounds like a court report – to a court that has not been able to run away from all the staff where you are the last rapporteur: We've got the situation under control! - but no one sticks to it. That's the real situation. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's probably what the Habsburg told him!]] We now have the third revision, and you say: We have the situation under control!, well, knowing that all those who have concluded work contracts in the last few months have, of course, been held back by the registration, because no one knows what regulation comes out and because everyone – and you confirm this by repairing this law – was actually stupid, who made serious and the law according to it, because he is not paid back. Everyone is stupid, who has dubbed himself and paid his contributions. Of course, nothing can be recovered from the contributions rightly paid, even if the new scheme did not have to pay any contributions. You, ladies and gentlemen, and also you, Mr Minister, admit that you are really setting up a foot-and-mouth scheme after the other and are punishing the citizen who has followed the letter of the law. This is really incomprehensible, and I believe that the majority here in this House will probably raise their hands, as always, in ignorance of the facts, in ignorance of what it is doing. That is why we will soon be sitting back here in this House and need to talk about the works contracts and the impossibility of implementing this regulation. I will give you a few more arguments, Mr Minister – you will not hear them from me often – why this regulation is not only bureaucratic but also unsocial and economic. Yesterday, Mr Minister – you were invited to attend – we had a hearing on work contracts in this House. This was quite an exciting event because it demonstrated that the criticism of those concerned – the criticism of those who have to live by contracts of work – has remained unchanged. The only thing that you have achieved with this third innovation by the exception of the artists until the end of 1997 is to give the artists some relief, although the future for the cultural creators, for whom artists nevertheless does not become more rosy. It is by no means clear that from 1998 onwards, artists will be relieved by a greater subsidisation for the cultural and artistic sector, namely, by 30 to 50 percent more. Unless, until then, it succeeds in setting up a regime which can provide some relief to the arts and culture sector, as would be necessary in other areas. The debate in this hearing has also shown the fundamental criticism – and you should listen to that – that there has not been talk with those concerned. No one has talked about the few interest groups that exist in the area of those affected by works contracts. This contractual arrangement has been completely overturned by the actual interests. I would ask myself, Mr Hostasch, what would you say if, in a law, those organized in the Chamber of Workers would come to a kiss and the Chamber of Workers would not even be asked! – But that is the reality in this case! I really think it is significant that the few groups and organizations in the field of contract workers are completely ignored that no one is making the effort to address them. No one has bothered to involve them, to ask them for their opinion: What do you think about it, how could we guarantee social security? For me, yesterday, the tension of this hearing was that none of those who went out there and expressed their problem with the contract arrangement said: We give up social security, we do it ourselves. The tenor, which was largely consistent, was: We want social security, we have fought about this in recent years – but what you are now doing with this contract scheme is a reduction in income by 30 to 50 percent, and we cannot afford it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was a woman there – I think, a trainer from a company, a freelancer – who reported on the effects of the current contract regime. She has said that she has to increase her income about ten times so that she can achieve the same income as before. Her burden on deductions – which was very plausible in advance – is so high that she has to earn the tenfold because the sum of her income, which will be taxed, does not, of course, constitute her income. In fact, their income is much lower than their turnover, but the tax is measured by this turnover, which is counted as a contract sum. This woman has still mentioned some very plausible figures. She said: What the government is demanding of me, I can't fulfill, it's ruining me and my trade, that's not going to happen. There have been other groups, for example the translators of books – including a small group – that have said: What is being done with this contract is the ruin for our trade! We can no longer work in Austria as a translator! And they went on to say: In the future, what they do about translation work in this country will do to any larger publishing house that has books to translate in Germany, because the translation costs there are much lower, because there are no such burdens as ours. In addition, of course, every Austrian and every German publisher has the opportunity to have translation work done in Germany. In the future, it will no longer be necessary and no longer possible to translate into an Austrian idiom. This can also be done by the German translator. Of course! This work contract regulation has achieved the fact that very concrete professional groups really have to fight for their survival. They say: We don't see a future for our trade anymore! The translator's profession is, incidentally, not a trade, because delicate provisions of the trade regulations make an organization as a trade impossible for these groups. This professional group does not know whether it is part of the artistic field, which would be justified by parts of its work, or whether it falls into the non-artistic field. If the translators were to claim to be in the artistic field, they would still have an exception until the end of 1997, but that's all. The fact is that, especially in the case of works contracts of a modest scale, this works contract regime, taxation, but also the introduction of social insurance obligations in works contracts, not only endangers existences or pushes down to poverty, but also affects the economy in certain very small sectors – whether this is the translator or is the coach who works in a company – or is even made impossible. Ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to be said about individual points of this contract; I have only referred to the economic aspects. I would now like to look at their social aspect, the limits on poverty. Minister! Mr Feurstein is so proud of the regulation with the 7 000 s as an open limit. Mr Feurstein, I think you do not know what you have done with it. The 7 000 S are no longer compatible with the rest of social and family rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me give you an example: A student has so far – I have said this before, but I explain it to you once more, perhaps we can talk about a renewal at some point – if he has received family support, only 3,600 S – free border. From now on, after the free-border increase, he may earn 7 000 s with a contract of work. But if he does, then he loses the family allowance because the free border is at 3,600 s. – Case one. Mr. Feuerstein! Did you think about that? - No! Case two – let’s take a concrete example –: Culturators, for example, cameramen, who no longer have regular jobs, who live on occasional jobs, because the institutions, like the ORF, have outsourced themselves, because we do not have a large film industry in Austria, have been able to earn up to 17 000 s per month – and that was a quite social rule – besides their unemployment benefit, I think without reducing their unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Hostash: This is unfair compared to others!]] May I give my example, colleague Hostasch? Maybe you'll listen until I finish my example. This limit was shortened to 3,600 S down. So far, so good. Justice! Let's get some of that. But what happens now? – In future, a cameraman may earn up to 7 000 s of work contracts. But the unemployed are already cut at 3,600 s. He thus loses the amount of unemployment benefit if he earns up to 7 000 s with a contract of work. However, this is relatively common in this sector. However, if he earns 7 000 s with a contract of work – he has no chance of obtaining a regular contract of service – then he must reject it in the future, because if he accepts it, he loses the unemployment allowance and at the same time he loses any social security. That's what you say, colleague Hostasch, that's socially fair! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I think this is an absolute social acidity which has been decided not to consider at all what we are doing with the shifts of free borders for certain professional groups. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Minister! You know this very well, and yet you have complied with the ÖVP requirement after increasing the free borders, according to the motto: That's going to go somehow, but only a few! However, these fall entirely out of social security, or are pushed into the unemployed and no longer emerge. Then, Minister, on the other hand, you come with programmes for long-term unemployed and say: Go work! But if he goes to work when he accepts a contract of work – and he has no other option than cameraman, he has learned that – then he loses unemployment benefit, and if his employment contract does not exceed 7 000 S, he loses any social security, because then he will not even be socially insured in the future. That's the reality! It was obviously juggled with deficient limits, with free borders, without considering the consequences that this has for those concerned. That's unsocial, and that's irresponsible! This will have devastating consequences for certain groups – even if these groups are not large. Another example from the area of free borders – and in my opinion this is actually one of the most significant – is the day's mothers. It is no coincidence that we will be able to deal with five, six, or seven different variants of mother-in-law in the future. The parents conclude a private contract with the mother of the day, as is partly recommended in Lower Austria and also in other federal states, then no social security at all applies. If an organisation concludes the contract with the parents or with the worker concerned, then in the future there will be the possibility of three different types of contract, even four. If the mother-in-law still has another main profession, a work contract, up to 3,600 s free limit, if she has no other profession, then she may earn up to 7 000 s in her day-to-day work, but without social security – that is a great social policy success of social democracy, that the mother-in-law is being pushed down into work contracts where they do not have social insurance – and if the contract is over 7 000 s, she is socially insured between 7 000 S and 8 000 S, but does not yet have to pay a tax. However, if the mother-in-law has the wrong to take care of three children and, in some cases, to go beyond 8 000 s, the source tax will be taxed, at least until the time of the income tax adjustment, which will significantly reduce the income of the mother-in-law concerned. There is, of course, also the possibility of employment of the mother-in-law in a small employment relationship: Up to 3,600 S it has no social security, but at least an accident protection. Moreover, in most federal states, except in Vienna, the possibility – which will probably hardly be used by anyone in the future – to enter a decent employment relationship with a earnings of more than 3,600 S. You, ladies and gentlemen, have created these tracks to unsecured work contracts. I think it is irresponsible that, without thinking about it, you will decide on a change of law here, which leaves different people totally unprotected, which will actually help no one but will lead to further circumvention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner]] Mr Leiner! Talk to tax advisors, talk to business consultants! Listen to what they're saying! Of course, in every magazine in Austria, tips are given on how to deal with the latest factory contract chocolates you decide on. Of course, this law only lives by the fact that it will be avoided because it is an unadministrable law because it leaves ambiguities because it creates uncertainties because there is currently no one in Austria who would actually rule this law. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the responsibility you have to bear! On the one hand, you scream – just you from the ÖVP: Fighting the flood of law! With the banner, Members Cordula Frieser stands out and says: Say the flood of law to the fight! But here you decide laws that you don't understand. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't encourage the people laws you can't understand yourself! Don't encourage the people's laws that are bureaucratic, unsocial and in this case also anti-economic.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4947	The next speaker is Mrs Hostasch. - Please. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4969	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger and also Mr Kier! No one claims that the provisions we are now deciding and that we have already decided this year are the last to conclude the wisdom. But it is a first and important attempt to get under control of misdevelopments and to prepare a large solution which we intend to follow. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this House, we have had many detailed discussions on the issue of atypical working conditions, which have already led to a great deal of work contracts, and I believe that we can rightly claim that we did not debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, so to speak, but rather very profoundly, and also some of the opposition parties' proposals. I would also like to say that within the SPÖ and ÖVP groups we have also tried to bring different views into line. I do not want to go into detail now, but rather to say a few basic things about our social security system, remembering the background to our decision as to why we wanted to have these regulations at all, why we believe that we absolutely need them. I would remind you that the Austrian social security system is based on a clear distinction between self-employed and self-employed employment and risks arising therefrom. The social security benefits financed by the contributions of insured persons are therefore also inextricably linked to the incomes of the different groups. Therefore, based on the charging procedures, current revenue from the contributions is also decisive for the ongoing financing of the benefits, and if these funding bases are not provided, the benefits cannot be provided either. This must be said, above all, of those who, while showing great understanding of the fact that all citizens get social benefits out of the system, should have a comprehensive guarantee, but at the same time do not want to realize that this also requires contributions. I think you have to be so honest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The functioning of our social system is, of course, eroded and threatened, if an increasing proportion of the population relates to income from employment, but outside solidarity. Community of insured persons and cannot be assigned to the self-employed or to the self-employed. As a result, social protection is excluded for this group on the one hand and, on the other, the funding base in social security is clearly limited. However, this is linked to the loss of the right to contribute within the insured Community and the working group. I see two main reasons for this development and for the need to act: on the one hand, based on the economic assessment and the balance: Where is there a more favourable cost-related relationship between proper working relationship and other design possibilities?, we are experiencing a flight from labour and social law and, on the other hand, a profound change in the working society, in particular through the spread of new, unbound and labour-reducing technologies – the key to teleworking – instead of working time-oriented forms of work organisation, as well as by the increase of business and social services. This creates completely new activities, activities with fundamentally different characteristics, which indicate the concrete contractual relations. In other words: There are new boundaries between dependent, authoritative, self-employed, classical employment and the newly developing types of free self-employment, of Quasi self-employment. However, the legislator has not yet sufficiently grasped the relations between this free entrepreneurship and the classical employment contract between the social groups and not comprehensively enough. I therefore believe that it is right to start a first attempt to bring about an order in social law, as well as the inclusion of service-like contracts and free service contracts within the scope of the ASVG and to take the second major step. I therefore agree to submit the following motion for a resolution, and please give it your consent: [[Quoted print version removed]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, applicants from the opposition parties whose applications we have also dealt with in committee! First of all, a word on the proposal 284/A of the Liberal Forum, in which the constitutional significance of the new contract was addressed. We have also, of course, examined the extent to which constitutional concerns are justified. And those lawyers with whom we have discussed this question meant that the new provisions are in order, and we can therefore accept good faith in the same way. The application 287/A of the liberals refers to the social deterioration of the employees by avoiding entrepreneurs from having to refer to cheaper types of contracts. We too had these concerns, we also discussed this in committee, and that was precisely why we said: Let us not forget in the Committee the following – and I should also like to quote this here in the House –: The aim of the rules on the inclusion of free contracts of services and the employment of similar workers is in particular to prevent the circumvention of social security obligations. The Committee notes that the efficiency of the measures now taken must be closely monitored whether the agreed objective is also achieved and whether this does not convert proper working conditions into employment-like conditions in order to achieve a more cost-effective variant. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was requested by the Greens to suspend the existing contract arrangements. I mean, suspending is not a solution. To take a first step towards a great solution, that is the right way from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5071	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please. Similarly, 10 minutes of time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5092	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The change in the working contract system under discussion is to be rejected from a liberal point of view as much as the original project of the Federal Government. Our criticism of this project has not changed, it is admittedly so that the changes have mitigated some of the hardships, but the fundamental concerns we have expressed about the liberals continue to exist fully. Mrs. Hostasch! It is your honour that you have quoted the Committee's remark here in plenary and have also expressed the dissatisfaction that many in the Social Committee have felt, in my opinion, that with this regulation you are actually achieving what you want, namely those people who have to secure their financial existence with less income or by subsuming less income, into the social security network. I think it is significant that Mrs Hostasch has discussed the question of the constitutionality of this draft law. For you, Mr Feurstein, there is, in fact, only an expression of regret that you did not even relate this question to the constitutional concerns expressed by university professors from the Constitutional Area in Austria – several times, even after the correction you have made with the colleague Reitsamer – not even with one word – not even with one word, Mr Feurstein! – have been relevating. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It is also significant for me when someone, like Bazar, numbers between 7 600, 7 800, 7 400 and "May it be a bit less?" – now we are led by 7 000. On the other hand, I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Frieser, who at least had the courage to not forget what she has verbally said as a specialist and tax advisor to the media, when she enters the House, but consequently does not agree to this new regulation at least during the last plenary session. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think one thing is: If we here in Parliament believe that our economy is affected by the increasing number of regulations and regulatory mechanisms, which are becoming increasingly inconceivable and which involve increasing administrative burden, this regulation of the contract of work is best suited to the situation of injustice – I emphasize: The situation of injustice – of people who are on and on behalf of themselves good will to respect, maintain and maintain divergent legal boundaries, and it appears that implementation in practice is not possible without bloating bureaucracy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your It is sad that, as Secretary-General of the Office, you know how it should be, but as a Member of Parliament here in the House, you are obviously more subject to coalition pressure than to your expertise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're shaking their heads, but I think that's sad. The question of political stardom in Austria is a question raised by a lot of gaskets, especially now in front of the EU election. Do you not believe, Mr President, that people like you, like Maderthaner and like Puttinger, are significantly involved in the fact that people in Austria have a legitimate sense of political irration? [[Abg. Dr. Stumblingly, that's what a freeman says!]] What you formulate and postulate in your stand-representation, forget all three when you come here at the door! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I acknowledge that you and Mr Puttinger were at least so fair in the last legislative period that they did not take part in the vote. In the current legislative period, however, it is clearly and clearly visible – at least in the Social Committee, Mr. Stumblingly, where you have had your hand in good faith and loyalty to coalitions – that you have subordinated your expertise to the loyalty of coalitions. I therefore say this so clearly and so clearly, because I believe that someone who, like you, has always made a professional claim and who has also been a credible representative of his profession for me, when he comes in here through the Parliament's door, cannot simply throw overboard all that he can and knows professionally. Mr Feurstein! You from the Austrian People's Party have here become unfaithful to your own demands in the election campaign, including the formulation that Austria must be debureaucratised. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I say that clearly and clearly. There's no way for me to correct Jota. It is undisputed for all of us who are in the Committee on Social Affairs, of all five political groups, that social security has to be done for 100 per cent of Austrian workers, regardless of whether they are employed as entrepreneurs or as employees. In the course of life, everyone is a businessman, a worker or an employer, in different functions. And sometime for everyone the age of seniors also comes where he wants to take advantage of the fruits of his long working life and to benefit from the social network in the appropriate form. Mr Feurstein! They have proudly stated that the position on compulsory insurance and insurance matters differs from one another. I say this very proudly: It is what distinguishes us from you, the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals want everyone – whether workers or employers – to be able to choose between several choices, which system of contribution payments and which social security scheme they choose for themselves. But one thing is clear: One of the systems he has to choose. You, Mr Feurstein, are based on the fiction of the Solidarity Community, as the Social Democrats have been doing for more than a hundred years. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true! That is a wrong conclusion!]] I say quite clearly and clearly: Even in your Christian-social roots, these theories have been quite part of your movement from the very beginning. But don't forget one: Theory and practice are two different things! The entrepreneurs, Mr Feurstein, will certainly be able to deal with this law again. And then what we are going to do in the Committee, together with Mr Hostasch and those who have had 'baucheh' in this decision-making out of social considerations, will actually have assumed that the circumvention and thus the black work, the black jobs and the decline from the social system in Austria will increase and will not decrease due to this legislative matter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that it is necessary to discuss the regulation and innovation of this system of the contract of work, but I think it is simply and simply a bad act that cannot be repaired in this form. I quite agree that the basic considerations – from the Social Ministry to the social speakers – have been the right ones to involve everyone in the social system. But I doubt that the way, the You are here today to make a decision, which is the right way to go. I also doubt that he is an efficient way, and I am sure, contrary to you, that he is an unconstitutional way. I also heard the following from people from your ranks: All right, then we'll have to wait about three years until that's over, and in the meantime we'll get the contributions. – I say quite clearly and clearly: For me, this attitude, which some people have behind closed doors, but which, despite all this, is publicly colported, is simply a scandal for a parliamentarian! I therefore think this is a scandal because we are all bound to the Constitution and to take constitutional concerns more into account in our deliberations here in plenary. You, Mr Feurstein, have, at least, a "meritance": that, although you are committed to the Constitution, constitutional concerns were not even worth a word! In any case, this is left to you from today's discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5190	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5212	Mr President. Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! I have already explained here several times – no one will dispute this – that we have a very good social system in Austria, a system that has grown over the years. However, this growth, while adding new provisions, has also resulted in a number of inequalities and derogations in our social security system. In principle, farmers, tradesmen, workers, employees are socially insured and, according to their income, social security contributions are made. However, there is an area – this is the area we are now regulating, that of the employee-like contract of work, of the free service contracts – which so far had no social protection, but where no contributions were to be paid. In recent years, social security has increasingly been avoided in this area, so-called contracts of employment for workers and employees have been concluded instead of contracts of employment, which has made workers more or less self-employed without social protection. This circumvention has been increasingly used, as has been said, and the trend continues to be very high. That is why it was and it is necessary for us to try, on the one hand, to find, after all the years of this growth, a real new regulation which is going in the direction I announced this spring and which is fortunately also adopted by Parliament today by the National Council with its motion for a resolution. The direction must be that we can provide social protection to all those in employment with a view to ensuring that contributions are fairly paid from any income from employment from a certain border, up to a certain limit. However, because of the many derogations and inequalities I have already mentioned, this scheme is certainly not to be achieved within a few months. However, it was necessary to reduce the circumvention possibilities in the field of service-like works contracts and free service contracts. Therefore, we also have this scheme with effect from 1. July met. I already explained: It is a new matter, and it has been restricted from the outset by the agreements to be reached at the level of the social partners, at the political level, for example on contracts of employment-like work contracts. This requires a number of regulations to be observed. However, such regulations have already existed in the Judicature before. For example, as it is cited here that there must be a certain number of contracts within a certain period of time for similar contracts between the employees, I say: We have only included in the law, which was before – obviously completely unnoticed by all the experts – long ago Judicatur. Many other provisions, which are criticised as exceptions today, have already existed before, but they have never been discussed. For example, the scheme has already existed before, according to which two or more contracts of service have not led to a repayment of the contributions from the maximum basis of contributions for workers, if they are in total above the maximum basis of contribution of health insurance. – I would also like to say on this occasion: There is also no right of the employer to claim a refund from this system. We have certain rules for health insurance: a parity in the contribution payments, but not a parity between service providers and service providers at the total amount of money, because in addition to the contribution rates, workers also pay a number of other financial resources for health insurance, for example the prescription fee and the like. Therefore, even in the case of this intended repayment, the parity cannot be applied. There are a number of regulations that are necessary, which are now being criticized as complicated, but which have always been in reality in the service contracts and also in other insurance cases. And since it is criticized that the registration of these works contracts or free service contracts is so complicated – Mr. Dr. Feurstein has already provided a copy of the registration form, but the copy was a little larger than the original – I will show you the form in the original. [[The speaker holds a prepress in DIN A5 format.]] – This is the entire registration form. No one can complain! However, if certain opposition parties call for more bureaucracy, for example, if a decision is required from the outset, then it is necessary to be clear that an investigation procedure would be initiated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] This form is the registration form: as small as any service contract. And the question, Mr Peter, whether it is a service contract or another contract was also before 30. Always to clarify June. With the new regulation, we have only eliminated the possibility of circumvention – to a certain extent, not entirely. The latter can only be possible if we find an overall scheme. What did we want to achieve with it? We wanted, first of all, to ensure that workers are not pushed out of social security by offering them only a so-called employment contract or a free service contract in place of a service relationship. – That’s the first goal. The second goal – because it was the subject of money procurement – is, of course, also to bring the contributions into line. If, for example, contributions to health insurance are made according to income, then it must not happen – and this was very, very often the case – that a relatively low paid service contract has created full insurance protection and could also be earned unlimited by contract of employment and free service contracts. It is certainly so - and I regret it - that everyone who now has to pay more on contributions will not be satisfied. But, unfortunately, in all the studies that we are going to undertake on the new regulation in the insurance sector, I have to exclude the fact that we can invent a new world: the first social security without contributions and without tax benefits. In other words, social protection also requires that the contributions be made justly, according to income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is, first of all, not to push out the individual from social protection, to the second, contribution justice in the interests of all insured persons. What has so far been avoided on the one hand in contribution payments had to be brought in by the others. The third element is that this will also restore the level playing field among companies. I believe that it has become common practice in some sectors to save more and more social security contributions and to push workers out. If only one company in a sector starts to start with a second company – the results of the discussions showed in this direction – then the whole industry is pushed in this direction. These were the reasons why we need to carry out this difficult matter and this certainly not popular company – to protect the individual in social security, to protect the entire system of all insured persons, including pensioners who have hardly ever heard of work contracts. These contributions must, of course, be brought into line with the social security of all, and at the same time the competitive situation must be made even for all. The aim must, as I have said, be: a genuinely general social security scheme – a sure long-term objective – so that income from a certain level guarantees social protection, up to a certain level, but also combines social security contributions with it. Very briefly on a number of contributions to the debate. Mr Oellinger is not here at the moment. I could not follow his remarks at all. But I think... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] If you say here that it would be worse now than before, because there is an insurance limit of 7 000 S, I have to tell you: ==References== There was no insurance limit for these free contracts and works contracts in June. At any time, without regard to income – from zero to infinite – someone could be pushed into this situation or one could save the contribution payments. That is why I do not understand why there should now be more incentive for circumvention, by the fact that this 7 000 S limit exists. We originally had a common border. This was not sustainable for various reasons. Now we have this insurance limit for the free service contracts, for the employee-like works contracts of 7 000 S. But this is a much different and much better condition than before the 30th century. June. If, at the same time, Mr Oellinger argues that we would endanger the existence of people because we assure them socially, and if you, ladies and gentlemen, continue to think consistently, then we would contribute to the security of life of all, an absurd thought! – if we were to abolish social security. It is really absurd to say that if we give him the social protection that is certainly good in Austria, we are threatening the existence of a human being. You mentioned the artists and others here: There are temporary derogations. I mean, all these derogations have the character of the transient. Among the artists: We cannot continue to promote art in such a way that we say: You pay for the promotion of art almost yourself, for which you are not socially insured. It cannot be the task of social insurance to promote art – as necessary. There are other ways to do that! However, the fact that what the State saves on pension grants is once everyone acquires their own right to pension evenly, once they are diverted into the promotion of art, would be possible. That is why I really ask all these things to be concluded consistently. Because you're talking about different regulations: Everyone dealing with social security knows how many different rules are currently available. I am trying to maintain our very good social system in the longer term – and this is certainly only possible in the long term – by preventing people from being pushed out of the protection and, on the other hand, by preventing – that must also be – that there is no right of insurance contributions. These are the goals. . We will continue in line with these steps, the motion for a resolution and the ideas I have filed here at the beginning of the year: for a general social security scheme with contribution-rightness, with benefit-righteousness. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5351	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have offered a seven-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. I accept the offer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5378	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit very openly that I have not made decision-making easy on this issue on which we are voting today. I have therefore not made it easy for myself because, as many know, I have dealt mainly with social security issues, labour law, and I also have a good reputation in this House, as Mr President-in-Office of the Liberals has gratefully acknowledged. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I was the first – ladies and gentlemen, the first! – who agreed to this regulation here in the summer, but when I learned the first effects from practice, from the establishments, I said: Okay, I admit, I voted in favour, but obviously it was a mistake to decide to do so. I'll bet you do that. Ladies and gentlemen! But you have to say one thing very clearly – and I join my friend Gottfried Feurstein right here: Where the biggest bureaucracy shift has been made by the new regulation, this has been done practically on the basis of the requests of the Liberal Forum: Dear businesses, ask for a notice! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] When I found out, Mr President, that a 14-page questionnaire with 48 questions was sent here by the Landeskrankenkasse, I said: Although I have passed the law, I have not decided a questionnaire with 48 questions. – The local health insurance fund’s response: If the Liberal Forum wants to do so, we need to initiate the investigation process, and this is just going to be bureaucratic. Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! You have put in here an action that has become a bureaucracy boomerang for those businesses that have followed you, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You decided!]] And let me say something very openly: Those examples that your colleague Kier brought from here from the speaker's desk – in a justifiable way – are exactly those who do not vote. [[Abg. May. Peter: These are also cabaret strip regulations!]] For the tailor, who is always cited here as an example, has either a commercial license, then he does not have the problem – or he suffocates, and we do not want to do so anyway; then he is not caught. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Kier! You act here against better knowledge – or you lack insight and legal knowledge for this very complicated matter. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's why he chases out the deputies to the liberals!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think, however, that one has to say very clearly, especially as regards social security law: The ASVG is not by chance that law of the Second Republic, which has been most innovative – not because it is bad, but because economic, social, social and technical development is constantly creating new social needs. That is the reason for this often innovation. This too must be said very, very clearly! In democracy, it is not the responsibility of the majority to explain why something is not going on, how the opposition is doing, but to explain how it is done, how to design and how to make politics! Today's law is a solution, ladies and gentlemen, which is undoubtedly not the final conclusion of wisdom. And I'll tell you in advance: Of course, there will continue to be innovations in social security legislation in the future, but this regulation, which we are adopting today, is only a major step forward, that it is quite undisputed that the increase in the limit to 7 000 s will again remove about two thirds of all cases affected by the old, still in force: Two-thirds of all cases will be eliminated only by increasing the lower level of flexibility from 3,600 S to 7 000 S. - If this is not progress, Ladies and gentlemen, then I don't know what progress is: Two thirds are no longer affected by this scheme! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing you also have to say very clearly: In practice, the economic, social and, above all, technological development, which I have just mentioned, shows the limits: What is a contract of employment, what is a contract of work, a contract of real, a non-real, what is a contract of employment like, what is a free contract of employment? – The boundaries are becoming ever more fluid. I know. The simplest solution would be – and I admit, I have loved it for some time – the famous big solution, which reads: Either you're a worker, then you're ASVG insured, or you're not a employee, you're a kind of self-employed person, then you're insured in the GSVG. - Wonderful. Just, ladies and gentlemen: What does that mean? – That means that the circle of those concerned would be at least four to five times as large as the circle that is now affected by it. I look at the whirlwind that will exist if, in a few years, we perhaps decide on this great solution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Everything looks good as long as it's not concrete. If it becomes concrete and the groups concerned come up with what that means for them, then it looks very different, Mr Peter. Then it looks completely different! Then you can no longer get over the rounds with cheap polemics. Then comes the hour of truth. And one thing, I think, must also be said very clearly, ladies and gentlemen: This regulation – and I am convinced that we will have to continue to discuss this matter, just as we need to continue to discuss the whole of social law – which we decide today is a step in the right direction, so I can accept good conscience without endangering my reputation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have not made this decision easy, believe me, but we bear the responsibility of the majority to shape – and not just to criticize.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5486	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5507	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must admit that I actually came to the floor with a certain amount of frustration in order to make a contribution to an endless debate. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You can go back in too!]] With a certain amount of frustration, because I believe that in this House, no one – nor you, Mr stupid – is convinced that what we will decide is better said: what you will decide – really has a hand and foot and makes sense. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you are referring to the fact that, as an expert, you have been dealing with relevant problems for many years, if, as the Secretary-General of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, you are also responsible for thousands of entrepreneurs insofar as you should propose to them laws and regulations that are manageable and manageable, then I understand your need. I understand, yes, I also understand the iron dance you're performing. I understand, Mr President: The first scheme came immediately Your apologies to the public: No, no, that's bad, now we're making a repair. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We improve it!]] But you know, because you're an expert, probably much better than I am, that this repair brought a deterioration. I'll just fix it to two points. The first point is and remains the bureaucracy. Mr Feurstein, if you say we have the situation under control, then I get a goose skin alone from the diction. This reminds me of terrible things to have something in hand, and of course it is not very liberal. And also: Of course, I would hate to be in control of you and your group. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And you forgot one of them. Perhaps it has the bureaucracy under control, because it can get into the state bags indefinitely and create the necessary official positions to administer this nonsense as well. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But think also of the business side, and ask the head of the staff offices, talk to the managers! They'll tell you what they got under control. The gray bears rise theirs, ladies and gentlemen, but they have nothing in their hands. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The second point is something that is particularly touching me. We are often accused of being liberal in economic terms, neoliberals, and of being liberal in some areas, and of having a social cold. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, have you considered what cold, which is the social cold of this new regulation, to introduce a 7 000-S upper limit? Have you not considered what psychological pressure will be exerted on potential employers by dividing the available labour income into small portions in order to reach the 7 000 S limit? Mr. Feurstein, you'll be out of control. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, he won't be out of power!]] You will not be able to control it – as Mrs Hostasch believes – and then act, but you will be driven, it will flood you, and then many of you, from the SPÖ Group, will resort again to the "evil" entrepreneurs and to the "evil" employers who exploit such regulations. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: If we decide here laws that allow for an interpretation that allows for a margin, a possibility for people in this country to design, then you cannot complain if the people concerned take advantage of this design option as well. That is also legitimate. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You therefore, yes, we have the task of jointly deciding on rules which do not include such a design option. You've neglected this with a 7 000-S limit, and I'm prophesying to you: There will be a crisis fire brigade in a few months, and there will be a new repair on this point. I think you too are concerned about this point, Mr Minister. I do not wish to congratulate you on this, but I do believe you are acting on an honest social commitment, but that you have been able to agree to such a regulation makes me inconceivable. That's where I have to say: Which one of us is now a socially employed person – you or I? The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is that you are so unchallenged about constitutional issues that have not been expressed by anyone in this country. These concerns are massively attributed to many different political camps – if you are allowed to do so at all; you should certainly not do it – experts came. But you do not take these warnings into account, you are not willing to say at least: Please, here we think there are really serious concerns, let us put the Constitutional Court on it. Just think about how many individual complaints you could avoid, what crazy bureaucracy, what waste of money You could save this country only by having it clarified from the outset by the last instance, whether what you want or decide to do is also constitutional. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will not fall out of the crown, and the truth will inevitably come to light anyway. Whether this is done by this request or by judicial decisions after months and years and after millions of wasteful means of taxation, you do not mind. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore appeal once again, in particular to you, Mr Secretary-General, and to your boss, Mr Maderthaner: Consider once again whether you support the idea that the Constitutional Court is facing these concerns. I think it would be good for you. Finally, Mr. Stumbling – because You always point out that you are not polemic and only tried to highlight the subject matter in the discussions –: It is a big problem if you are trying to present it as if the Liberal Forum had decided on this nonsense. And if you accuse us now that we are to blame: Who's gonna believe that? Mr. Stumvoll, this is an election statement, that can't be your serious. The right to civil resistance, which every citizen has, must also be granted to your members – unfortunately still forced members – Mr. Stummful, that is a fundamental right! I've got to get civilians. It is against a regulation which I recognise as absurd and which I am directly and permanently affected by! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr President, we are just as aware as you that great solutions and basic reforms, along with many other natural conditions, need time, persuasion and expertise. What we regret so much, and we are still in favour today at 3 p.m., is that, while you are always in principle aware of the need for fundamental changes, you also admit that you are saying: Yes, we need a reform, as the Federal Minister has said several times, but you always move it, move it, move it, and you do not even agree to make the necessary painful corrections to your own affected clients against internal resistance in your own ranks in order to finally take the path of recovery. This is not only the case with the contract regulations, it is also the case with any other major reform. Since the tax reform, this Republic has not changed anything significant, fundamental, but the economy is making rapid progress – you know, stupid – and this progress does not allow us to reject it and say: It's not ready today. It is a small step in the right direction, but I tell you that this step is far too small, it is far too slow, and unfortunately, in this case it is also a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5624	I call Mrs Silhavy. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary restrictions: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5645	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Haselsteiner, your constitutional concerns have actually been addressed by Madam President Hostasch in her contribution to the debate, and I think that the colleague Reitsamer has already pointed out in her contribution the problem of the demarcation of works contract regulations and the politically feasible compromise necessary for a social security scheme here, Mr Oellinger. The fact is that more and more people are forced to accept atypical employment, to have a job at all, because the economy does not offer them a typical service relationship. Mr Haselsteiner! One might as well call for the social responsibility of companies here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that the media are not on the side of a social security scheme does not surprise you, however, know the working conditions of many employees in this sector. In 1980, a commercial company has already asked its branch managers to employ people for a few hours with a contract of work. The head of the branch should be convinced that these, most likely women, are assured that, if they have children, they have someone who cares for the children who is close to their place of residence. These women are not allowed to sell cheap goods, but are awarded a fee. So you see, the works contracts creep into themselves very slowly and disperse service relations. I would just like to draw attention to the problem of teleworking and telework, which will add to this situation dramatically. If Mr Kier makes use of this scheme in order to claim insurance obligations against compulsory insurance once again in his contribution to the debate, I can remind him that this insurance obligation drives such escapades that people over 40 years of age are asked to change insurance because they represent an increased insurance risk. I am sure that we have not found a definitive arrangement here that the contract agreement can only be a first step. It would also be possible to establish a social security scheme, where all expenditure incurred in connection with a third party's performance in relation to finance, such as wages, salaries, fees and so on, is used as a basis for social security contributions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I am sure that Federal Minister Hums, with the intention of including all incomes in compulsory insurance within certain limits, sets the right path for the social policy-oriented future. Mr Böhacker – perhaps because of his work – has less in mind the interests of those people who have to work not only for their daily lives, but also for social security. He thinks he's more business-centered. But the division of parliamentarian Böhacker such as "Sondermüll" in his last press release, the words quoted today or the "Dependence of a Fiction of a Solidargemeinschaft" spoken by honourable Member Haupt can only be described as despicable. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't know what he thinks!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't know what Böhacker thinks!]] In any case, young women who would love to have a service relationship come to me, and they are wondering today how they will ever get social security in old age. Mr Oellinger – I do not see him now – should actually be similar. He should know that these women want this social security. His remarks on the mother-in-law can only be referred to as polemics, because I already assume that Mr Oellinger knows the actual situation of the mother-in-law. The merger of several contracts with a contracting entity is also an answer to practice. However, the working group on the development of the social security system will certainly also have to deal with the issue of minor employment in this context. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for the efforts that have been made in this difficult matter so far. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I can also make a request for this thanks. Federal Minister! We are required to maintain the protection of trust for the long-term unemployed – as Mr Reitsamer mentioned – through legislative innovation. In the Steiermärkische Landtag last week, both SPÖ and FPÖ submitted an application to this effect. The SPÖ request was supported by the ÖVP by the majority of votes. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree at the federal level on a solution for these people in the interests of protecting their trust.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5720	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5742	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! Its new work contract regime is deeply hostile to women and to the disabled, because the only way to raise the level of low-security from 3 600 S to 7 000 S is to ensure that very, very many disabled people, who can only work half-dayly and have enjoyed insurance protection until now, will lose this insurance protection. There are very few people who can earn more than 7 000 s in half-day employment, and those who have half-day employment are highly disabled people. You have now deprived these people of their social security. They have socially excluded them because in the future it will no longer be possible for these people to acquire their own pension or to be socially insured themselves. It seems to you that it is not enough, Mr Minister, that 80 per cent of disabled people are still not insured in any social security scheme because they are paid for their employment with alms and pocket money because they are not prepared to view their work as employment. But you seem to have not been able to do that. They also try to get those people who still have a semi-functioning service relationship with low income out of the social insurance obligation, out of the pension insurance obligation and out of pension insurance. They do not want to give us the right to self-determined life, no, quite the contrary, they want to bring us even more into the dependence of stationary institutions, into a dependency that is that disabled people cannot acquire a pension, and into the dependence that they must be insured with parents or with relatives for their entire life. Mr Sozialminister! They have also hit the mother-in-law hard and put their work as if it were no work. You, Mrs Hostasch – I am now turning to you – were proud that 400 000 S of the kindergarten billions have been removed, and you should be glad that women have taken on a job that no one has provided in our social state, namely the protection of children when mothers have to be active. And part of this security, so that women can be working again, has been provided by the mother-in-law, and these mother-in-laws have now thrown you out of the social network again. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Haidlmayr! We want service conditions!]] [[Abg. Koppler: We want service!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Haidlmayr! We want service conditions!]] You have to tell me how many daymothers there are in Austria, who are able to earn or earn more than 7 000 s a month. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: 20 percent earn over 7 000 S!]] They don't exist! And if you can tell me how many it is, tell me! They will not be able to do it because there are no daymothers who can reach an income of more than 7 000 s. [[Abg. Silhavy: But we want service!]] That means in concrete terms: On the one hand, you ask these women to finally redeem their long-standing women's policy – and this includes kindergarten policy – and on the other hand, you are also now punishing women who accept the toddlers. A mother-in-law has not yet known whether she will be fully insured for the current month or will only fall into the limit of defiance at the lower level of 3 600 S. A mother-in-law has never known to this day whether she will make it in the course of her term of service in the current month, that she can also receive sickness benefits, and that a mother-in-law has never known until now whether or not she can afford a pension in the current month in which she has provided child care. In the future, this is very clear and very clear: Daymothers are no longer able to be insured under social security law, and day mothers are no longer able to pay their own pension! [[Abg. Silhavy: We just want hired day mothers!]] You have helped only the economy with this solution, which makes it easy for the economy to convert service conditions for those people who now have low income and who have been insured under social security legislation into work contracts, so that these people who have to work in these service conditions can no longer obtain pension rights and no longer have a right to social security. [[Abg. Koppler: That's not true! That is not the case, Mrs Deputies.]] That's your merit! I believe that this was also made very specific and conscious by the ÖVP for this group. I have not forgotten that your colleague Maderthaner has asked that there should be a collective agreement for the disabled, for the disadvantaged – whatever that may be and who can judge what is less gifted – and for the long-term unemployed, whose salaries are below those of the regular collective agreements. They wanted to achieve even worse, especially those people who are already bad. With this demand you did not get through to God at the time, but you have managed to do so now through your new solution, that precisely socially weak that people with low incomes have completely fled from the social network and will not have any chance to get back there in the future. They have also made it possible to remove the disadvantaged people who are so urgently dependent on their jobs from their favour, because there is no contract of work that states that they must treat the most favoured disabled. The disadvantaged are now out of the labour market, and the entrepreneurs are quite simple, because they have already been able to buy themselves freely at less than 2 000 s a month. Whether it is a few thousands more or less in the month, it is no longer a matter of whether, essentially, they can now free themselves from these people, loosen themselves and cut these people out of the work process or no longer take them into the work process at all. With the increase of the lower margin to 7 000 S They do enormous damage: Damage to people who have never had anything to laugh at, and damage to people who already have only a very, very low income, with whom it was most often impossible to secure their existence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many have so far managed to get over the 3 600-S limit to be insured under social security law. As a result of the increase to 7 000 s, this will no longer be possible for many in the future, but they will again be dependent on their husbands, on stationary facilities, on their parents. And you seem to have wanted to achieve that consciously. I have never admitted to you from the SPÖ, the ÖVP and also from the FPÖ that you are particularly woman-friendly, even at the Liberal Forum I have my problem with this. It has never been discussed that you have a lot left for disabled people, but that you drop us like this now and let us down like this, that is immense, that is inhumane, that is unworthy of human beings! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to: If you have only one piece of commitment to women with low incomes, to disabled people, to mothers of day and to all the other people who can earn little, you do not agree with this motion for a resolution today, because an agreement means that you will have to say goodbye to these socially weak people in the future and leave them completely alone in the rain! The solution proposed by the Liberal Forum that everyone should look for a social security scheme that can also secure it is not possible. They all know that people with disabilities who are sick are not taken by any single insurance institution. They have no chance of buying an insurance, because from 50 percent on, each disabled person is rejected from the roof band. It is not easy to insure yourself and regulate for yourself that you receive half a security. This is only for those who can jump and are good at it – with "good on it" I mean that they deserve much and are physically healthy – but all those people who do not have that and for whom it is not possible are gone now completely out of the social network. Minister! You have to explain to me what you have to say to disabled people, mothers and people with low incomes, how it should continue for them now, so that they have the opportunity to acquire a pension, so that they have the opportunity to be insured for social security, even in pension insurance, to be able to pay into unemployment insurance once they have to earn 7 000 s in order to get into the enjoyment of social security at all. What alternatives do you have for people who cannot reach an income of 7 000 S? If you have an alternative, tell me! But you don't have one. For me, there is only one way to give all people a social security, namely that they are automatically socially insured in the event of employment. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] As long as you are not willing to give social security to all working people, but on the contrary, to raise the lower limit of 3 600 s to 7 000 s, you question your social competence, Mr Minister, because with this you have left these people who can never reach this income in the rain and have given up your social responsibility at the expense of those people who have never done well before.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5873	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5894	Ladies and gentlemen! I think I have to correct and clarify errors again. The purpose of this new regulation is to ensure that people cannot be pushed out of social security. That is why I did not understand why the Green Group, which has known it for a very long time, attacked this scheme for months and demanded that it be abolished. And one thing I would like to make clear again: Of course, the 3 600 S limit for service conditions remains constant. That's probably the mistake. Compared to 30. In June, this regulation comes into force: in the future, fully social security-free service conditions – without regard to the income limit – will be included at least from the insurance limit of 7 000 S. You know the discussion of the last weeks and months. You could have supported much more if you had been in favour of this scheme, which was originally intended. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But again: It does not change anything at the insurance limit, at the low level of service. That means no one's being pushed out. On the contrary! In future, we will allow many to have social protection, social security protection. You have heard from me several times the explanation that our common goal must be to enforce this from a certain income – I am quite right that it must be so that social security is really given for all. But again: Service contracts, service contracts are, of course, subject to insurance from the 3 600 S limit, i.e. from 3 601 S. This has not changed at all. Only where it is until 30. In June there was no insurance at all, without frontiers, where we are re-introducing an insurance scheme, and I believe that this is certain social and that this is justified. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5939	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Voluntary limitation: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5960	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is the task of a government to initiate and implement necessary changes and corrections, and no government can expect the opposition to give support but what one can or should expect is that a little more materiality will be introduced in the discussion and in the consultation process. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Should you think!]] I have here the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and also the legislative proposal. I read nothing of exclusion at all, I read nothing of persecution at all, quite the contrary, I can read that we are on the way not to lost social conscience, but to have gained or found a new symmetry and a new quality. This is the truth and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you criticize, you can say without a doubt [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you wrote the report yourself, didn't you?]] It is true – and this is addressed to us, Mr Federal Minister – that we may discuss this important matter at once too often. In the future, we must be careful to save ourselves from this. – This is my message, which I address to ourselves. I think it is difficult to find the optimal solution on this issue, because one wants higher limits, the other lower. Please tell me in which direction we should change that. If it is said here that this scheme is nothing but a new source of funding, I must say: It's a false interpretation, because that's not true. Rather, it is a step towards greater solidarity. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Hostish.]] That is why this law does not deserve that assessment at all, such as of power. The main thing, namely, "Scandal", or by Mr Haselsteiner, who said that civil resistance had to be resisted here. All of this is not necessary. It is necessary that you learn to understand what we advise and decide here. That's why it's not about anything else! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our task must be to stabilise this good social law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Zizerlweis is doing this with you!]] – Mr Dr. Graf, there are so many other things you don’t look at, don’t interfere in the social justice field! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The subject of insurance and compulsory insurance is addressed here. Ladies and gentlemen! Please read the newspapers! Where there is an insurance obligation and no statutory compulsory insurance, insured persons are thrown out because they are old because they are sick or not included in the system or have to pay higher contributions. You want to support this system? – I think you're on the wrong path! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In case you still think it's the right way, I'll tell you: Look at the development in Germany. There it is apologised that this development has already been initiated. But the way back is not possible at the moment. Maybe it's also helpful for you to find out what it's all about. It is about 93 000 employees in Austria – source: Income Statistics 1993 – Achievement services worth 41 billion Schilling, which are outside the system. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to maintain comprehensive benefits in the health insurance and pension insurance system, we cannot give up to 41 billion Schilling work within the areas subject to levy. It's just not gonna work out. That's a mistake. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We must also refer to the new world of work through this law. I think this is very important, too, because in the future it will be less common for services to be provided on the spot. As a result of the new development in telecommunications, they will very often be carried out elsewhere, and therefore new accounting methods and new social law laws are necessary. How thoroughly I would like to show you now that you are dealing with this matter: In the Committee, the F Group called for all activities to be included in the contract scheme. This is your right, ladies and gentlemen. However, Mr Reichhold – he belongs to you, right? – made a broadcast and noted the "gloriousness" that now new groups would be involved, persecuted, punished. [[to the liberals]] This colleague, Reichhold, writes: Reform of reforms. He has not yet read or not wanted to read that all discussions concerning the second and third novels go in the same direction and do not concern this group of persons at all. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Or not understood!]] That means: They're just wrong. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We agree with this law because we are convinced of its need because it is a right way to more solidarity. This law is an important step in ensuring full social security for the future. – And this is really not a mistake, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6083	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6104	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Donabauer once again told us so correctly. [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonative applause with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Your reasoning is not quite logical, because on the one hand, you recommend reading the newspapers, and on the other hand, you accuse us again that we deal too much with the newspapers. Mr Donabauer! I will now tell you the following: Put the papers away! As a lawyer, I know - I do not need to look into the newspapers - that the provision on the subject of the introduction of social security obligations for service contracts and free service contracts is unconstitutional. This is not a minority opinion of a liberal representative, who is also a lawyer, but it is also the opinion of important constitutional judges in Austria. Since you refer us to newspapers, I refer you to serious, well-founded and professionally mature opinions by constitutional judges and also labour lawists. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Donabauer! They know university professor Dr. Tomandl, too, he speaks of a constitutional illegality. We will experience it again, Mr President, once again, that in the plenary, mandates warn against the conclusion of unconstitutional laws, that external experts warn against adopting illegal laws, and finally the Constitutional Court comes to the conclusion that the Members of the Government Party have once again passed constitutional laws. Then again there's fire on the roof. The Constitutional Court will then grant a transitional period and submit it to the coalition parties, re-absorbing this constitutional nonsense, this complete law nonsense you want to introduce here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The media, at least in my observation, have never actually used such a martial way of expression when it comes to examining the regulations on works contracts. I would remind you that, for example, the "Economic Sheet" even referred to a work contract torture. Yes, it even had to hold the Marquis de Sade in order to represent this complete nonsense figuratively and plastically. Ladies and gentlemen! I also have to guard against what the Minister has said here, namely that the legislator's efforts have been aimed at curbing a departure from the social security obligation. For, Mr Minister, if that were really the very consideration of your person, your party and the coalition partner, then it could have been left with the existing regulation, since it was already the case that circumventions were to be assessed according to their actual circumstances. When work contracts were concluded, which were only referred to on paper as works contracts, but were actually of a service nature, they were, of course, already subject to social security. Nothing else has been done about the wage tax liability of contracts which, although they were service contracts, have been referred to as something else. That means that it would not have required a change of law! In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is such that we now have a legal problem. We have the service contracts, we examine every matter on this: He is subject to service contract obligations, or is a free service contract, or is a servicer-like contract. - A Tohuwabohu. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, How seriously does a parliament whose Member, how seriously does democracy, in the minister-in-law, take a clear and clear view of the fact that they do not recognize themselves in respect of the contract of work? Yes, with what right to demand Are you, then, subjected to the norm that he administers this senseless law?- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6169	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6191	Mr President. High house! It has now been said very well, very emphatic, but also contradictory. In fact, I would just like to point out once again what the basic idea of this regulation should include, or what, the basic idea of our social system. Mr Donabauer has already pointed out - I believe we cannot do this often enough in the public sector - that our social system essentially includes the idea of solidarity. Unfortunately, however, it is too often exploited and supported by too few. We should also bring this awareness into the population, so that through its life-form, it helps solve problems both in the health and social spheres and secure funding. Today's regulation for decision-making again leads us a little bit of the way – admittedly, a little bumpy – towards the Solidarity Community. Mr Oellinger – he is not here now – and I should also like to say from here Mr Hazelsteiner that, as the chairman of the Salzburg Relief Agency and as Vice-President of the Austrian Relief Agency, I would like to highlight the increase in the limit value to 7 000 s per month. The negative remarks made here have always been made on the basis of general knowledge or individual examples. I would like to give an example from our aid organization: We in Austria employ 1,218 day mothers. Mrs Haidlmayr pointed out that they all fell through the social rust. That's not true! These daymothers take care of 3 199 children in Austria. We in Salzburg employ 170 day mothers, and we have interviewed all 170 day mothers: They are satisfied with the current system, even very satisfied. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wallner.]] For me, it would have been an exploitation if you would have added up the burden of social security obligations to day mothers who deserve just over 3,600 s. For the social associations, the decision-making question would have been whether such actions could have been continued at all – a disaster for the day-mothers, but also a disaster for the active mothers of the children cared for. [[Abg. Oillinger: The state wants to save, isn't it?]] We all have to save, Mr Oellinger. [[Abg. Oillinger: But not at the expense of the Mothers!]] The 170 day mothers surveyed were and are satisfied with this scheme, even very satisfied: I'm involved in the whole system. [[Abg. Böhacker: Dr. Leiner! Why aren't they hired, why don't they get 13 and 14. salary?]] 20 percent are employed who wanted it that way. With today's regulation, they can be put in place, they can shape it as they want. You are also for the freedom of man, for the personal development of man! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What did Cordula Frieser say?]] On this occasion, however, I would also like to point out, Mr Social Minister, that I would like to express my concern that there is a sharp disadvantage on the part of the AMS for children treated by day mothers with a free service contract, because they are supported by the AMS with a maximum of 3,450 s per month, but the day-to-day mothers provide a maximum of 6 000 S. This, I believe, is not in the sense of equal treatment for the children cared for. Maybe you could take care of it differently. That's a request from me, Minister. Of course, the day's mothers of the relief work represent only a small percentage, but they are a relatively large group, that is, over 1,000. In relation to all of them, 200 000, they are few. The example, however, shows how meaningful the innovation is today. We in this House should not be able to change laws that are simply not to be handled in reality quickly – and that is what we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6284	Mrs Klara Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6307	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leiner, I am right that we should raise social awareness in our people, but we should really be social where it is needed in the future and not want to be socially happy. I think it's in your mind, too. But I didn't understand what you said. Mr. Federal Minister! You've heard in the middle call what I'm talking about: I am really concerned today with the work contract regulations for the artists. I think you are right when I say that everything has not yet been settled for the best. I would like to point out, on the basis of a significant example, that the Treaty rules, as they will be decided today, will not have a direct effect on the art and culture scene. Ladies and gentlemen, a very concrete example: The international ballet pedagogical seminars are held at the Wolfsegger Ballet Center each year. So far, for example, the health insurance for a Russian dance teacher cost for the duration of four weeks at a private insurance institution 990 S. Due to the new contract scheme, the same insurance benefit at the Landeskrankenkasse in the future costs 15 350 S. Minister! These are facts, and I do not see any social protection in them. Since this regulation applies to all employees of the ballet pedagogical seminars, so also to those who are already insured elsewhere, in the future the Society for Music Theatre – in this case from the next year, through the extension that you have given us – will incur additional costs of 200 000 S to 300 000 S. I admit that this is a small amount in relation to the overall framework of our budget in Austria, but it is still a very high amount for the cultural scene in our country. I have deliberately mentioned this Wolfsegger example and therefore chosen it because it documents the return on the way in several ways, better than in relation to the big city of Vienna. In my example, the Society for Music Theatre costs around 1 million Schilling, of which only 43 percent can be generated by course fees and another 9.5% by various by- incomes such as ticket sales, program sales, souvenir sales and advertisements. 47.5% must therefore be shot by sponsors or by public authorities. Minister! The question for me is whether, in the future, sponsors will still find themselves, whether the public hand, even in the face of the savings package, which concerns everyone, can still take over this failure liability, an outright liability resulting from this arbitrary contractual agreement. If no sponsors can be found or the default liability cannot be taken over and therefore these seminars must be discontinued, the tourism industry in the Hausruckwald region loses up to 2 million revenues from more than 2 000 appointments and the cost of the seminar participants and observers, lecturers and various employees. In addition to a significant tax downturn, it certainly also threatens foreign transport companies. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this example is not an individual case, it is not a horror story either, but a representative example of the countless negative effects of the new contract regulations. I therefore say: This scheme is anti-economic, workplace-hazardous, anti-cultural, and is also completely lacking in social security. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Instead of giving people social protection, many become unemployed and beneficiaries of social assistance through this new scheme. In the future, it will also be artists and cultural creators in Austria, i.e. people who are proud and do not like to be bitters. That is why we are called upon to give timely assistance to these people. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! I respect your social commitment, but: Stop closing your eyes to reality. I call on you to avert this disaster by reorganising the work contracts for cultural organisations.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6377	Mrs Haller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary limitation: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6398	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Hostasch said that this work contract regulation was the first step in the right direction. For my part, I say: This is the third attempt at a regulation that we already know will fail again. In this context, I would like to remind you of the first attempt that no one is talking about today. With 1. The reporting obligation in the small employment relationship was introduced in January 1994. In this context, I would like to remind you of the contributions made by social democrats who, at the time, put the entrepreneurs as black sheep, who wanted to get cheap workers on the black market in this way. I would remind you that at the time it was very much argued that we should try to get the poor women out of the area where they do not have the possibility of pension insurance. This scheme is now in force for almost three years. It has brought enormous red tape, both for workers and for the local health phone. The employees of the health insurance companies were totally overwhelmed at the beginning. There have been no forms at all and such forms. The revenue in this area, which has been seen, is also very limited. This area has, at most, become a popular source of revenue for additional requirements in the case of operational tests of the regional hospital register. At the time, there were, and even now, difficulties in defining what a work contract and what a small employment relationship is. At present, 146 800 minor employment relationships are reported as at May 1996. This is a total of 5.2 percent of all employment. Of these, 47 000 women and 9 000 men do not have their own social security at all, they are only reported in accident insurance. More than a third of these persons are no longer covered by the social network. It is interesting to me that other studies have also been carried out in connection with the preparation of this current data: For example, it has been calculated that under minor employment conditions, entrepreneurs will save at least one billion schilling. A total of 1.9 billion schilling would be profitable from this area. – That is why we are on the point where the government has started to consider the work contract rules. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Otherwise, it would really be impossible to explain why, despite the serious concerns of all opposition parties and renowned professionals, it is tried to push through this regulation with all its power. There are also similar signs in the field of works contracts as in the case of minor employment conditions. These are almost preprogrammed. There will be a lot of additional bureaucracy and administrative burden, as well as the costs for entrepreneurs for whom there is no remuneration, but there will also be more bureaucracy in the area of social security institutions. Furthermore, there will also be difficulties in the area of demarcation, which is a contract of work and what is a free contract of services. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The whole thing is impenetrable!]] Yes, the whole thing is practical and not manageable. I am really saying this because of my practical experience. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also a scheme which affects young entrepreneurs, but which also applies to non-profit organisations. On this point, I would like to contradict Mr Leiner. The increase in the exemption limit to 7 000 S will ultimately lead to the need to afford benefits in non-profit organisations if the public authorities do not want to re-enter their efforts in this area. We are also opposed to the derogations introduced from the outset. In particular, freelances such as colporteurs who are not subject to social insurance obligations but would urgently need them, fall out of this area. Finally, this new contract system has already led to an increasing number of terminations of women who have so far had half-day employment in the area of large trade chains. They are now recruited in the context of a free contract of services and are thus excluded from social security. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a scandal!]] Yes! The "argument" that there will be a better involvement in social security is really totally absurd. Furthermore, we cannot accept at all the distortion of competition in the field of adult education. There are inconsistencies in the tax field and, of course, also in the constitutional area, which one is very happy to put to death. My conviction is that this is the perpetuating of a Husch-Fusch-law. One is simply not willing and willing to make a new start here, although it is also admitted on the part of the government parties that this regulation is not the yellow of the egg. In the Committee, for example, Federal Minister Hums said that further changes would be necessary. Mr Stummvoll has also mentioned a new adaptation strategy. In this context, I must turn to the EIA politicians once again, because I am somewhat inexplicable: This new regulation is welcomed by the ÖVP on the one hand with a loud welcome. On the other hand, however, there are ÖVP politicians who are still vehemently opposed, especially in the public, such as the Wiener ÖVP-Obmann Göerg and also – as in the "Tyrol Economic News" – Chamber President Hans Jörg Jäger; it is significant that the ÖVP does not listen to it here consciously. President Hans Jörg Jäger said according to "Tiroler Wirtschaftszeitung" of 27. September 1996: No consent to this contractual agreement! – That’s what I’m really asking myself: Does not the ÖVP know what the left hand is doing? Or is it still hard to expect the citizens to be confused and misinformed before elections? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this scheme is not a success, especially because it does not improve women in lower incomes. It offers another opportunity for a lucrative escape, for example from the Mother Protection Act, from the Youth Employment Act, from the Night Labour Prohibition for Women. I really believe that in this way what we want to achieve will not be achieved in any way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6467	Mr Pumberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary limitation: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6488	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For a very long time, it has been discussed about this work contract wall. Today, the works contract murks replaces two works contract murks – and the whole aim is to open up sources of money for social insurance. We want to prolongate the social insurance murks, which we have known for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The aim of creating new sources of money for social security can be accepted. But you're going the wrong way. The introduction of a new regulation in the context of the works contracts is considered absurd by the Austrians, and many politicians of ÖVP and SPÖ have already publicly stated that this is nonsense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Deputy Guggenberger has said that this is a "wooder"!]] I can only agree with him! However, Mr Guggenberger also said something about election doctors: In view of the fact that the patient should be given free choice of doctor and that they should no longer be entitled to select the doctor of their trust, he said: We've got enough cash doctors, we don't need election doctors. Therefore, all are to be integrated into the national system of compulsory funds, in which patients no longer have the possibility for individual care. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The rule that 20 percent must be paid by yourself if you want to consult a doctor of free choice is socially unfair. I regret that it is precisely the Social Democrats who have put in this proposal, supported and enforced this vehemently. Because this is a socially unfair solution, which allows patients to turn to the doctor of their trust. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I have prepared an amendment to this effect which has already been tabled at the last meeting of the Committee. So I'll bring them in here. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are looking for a doctor of free confidence, do not put this absurd burden on patients by 20 percent self-cost! It is also clear from the agreement between the Chamber and the cashier that each Austrian and every Austrian has the right to visit an election doctor if either no contractual partner is available at reasonable distance or if the patient expressly wishes to do so. – The latter is the key statement. However, an explicit wish of the patient is prevented by the current regulation, and I therefore ask you to accept this amendment. The planned introduction of the health certificate tax of 50 S from 1st year also leads to a significant increase in the cost of health care and also to a burden on health insurance companies. January 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sozialminister! All the well - known experts already know that this health certificate fee will lead to an enormous increase in the overall cost of health care. They themselves always say that the movement should be promoted away from the hospital to the so-called extramural area. In this case, it is the other way round: You're taxing the extra-mural area. A 50 S ticket is required so to speak, so that the patient can go to a settled doctor at all, while the treatment is free in hospital hospitals and costs nothing. However, the hospitalisation patient has a case value of approximately 400 percent higher than that of the patient of the established physician. In the present situation, however, patients will strive to save the 50 S health certificate fee and storm the hospital hospitals to thousands and thousands of thousands. The cost of social security – and this is the scurril of the whole thing – is slightly lower because it cashes the fake fee and now covers the hospitals with 37 billion schilling. And social security is putting all the levers in motion, that patients go as little as possible to the established doctors. It's all being transferred to the hospital. There, however, the cost is five to ten times, if not more. But social security and the marods, already threatened by bankruptcy, are the beneficiaries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore propose a further amendment in this context. [[Quoted print version removed]] This would contribute to a significant savings in social security and health care throughout and strengthen the trend towards the extramural sector. That would make sense to save health costs. I therefore call on you to give your consent to these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6609	Mrs Hostasch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary restrictions: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6630	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can promise you that I will not take advantage of this speaking time. I should now like to ask you to give your approval to two amendments. Of course, I also want to justify both. The one amendment concerns the draft law to amend the General Social Insurance Act and the other social security laws as well as the Unemployment Insurance Act, the Income Tax Act and those laws that we discuss with these applications. The content of this amendment is a simplification; this request has been repeatedly expressed in today's debate. This simplification is to be achieved by abolishing the fund solution originally intended and also contained in the legislative text concerning health insurance contributions which are introduced from the employer's side beyond the maximum basis and accompanied by a substantial relief for the employer's side in the employment of apprentices in the first year of teaching. In other words, it is proposed that the health insurance contribution be reduced by 1.5% of the general basis of contributions in the first year of education. We promise an effective relaxation in the apprenticeship market. We hope and expect teachers to subsequently offer additional jobseekers an opportunity to take a career course. I would like to read to you the text of this amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] At the same time, I would like to make a second amendment on the subject raised by some Members today in the debate: It is a satisfactory solution for pensioners in the area of the so-called "gnade pension scheme" or age scheme, where business agreements and individual contracts were concluded before Austria became a member of the European Union and before the legislative changes were made under the Structural Adjustment Act. The following amendment is a little more detailed, but I have to read it in the middle of the order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Bauer.]] I have also justified him, Mr Bauer, and those colleagues who have followed the debate closely – and I also accept from you – really know what it is all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I have already said in the explanatory statement what it is all about. I would ask you to give your consent to this request. Many people will be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6846	The two amendments that have just been selected, as well as the previous amendments tabled by Mr Pumberger, have been properly tabled, duly supported and are under negotiation. Mrs Madl has now been reported to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to two points: Firstly, voluntary speaking time: 3 minutes. Secondly, In any case, I will interrupt you at 3 p.m. 30 minutes to call a urgent request. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6870	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Many people will be grateful if this factory contract scheme is lifted with no replacement – until we develop a truly reasonable model that makes sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] The two amendments, Mrs Hostasch, which you have now tabled, are the striking proof of how diletantic you are acting here in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Mr Silhavy, Mr Parnigoni and others. May. Guggenberger.]] Of course! Bring in the last minute You have two major requests and say, Mrs Colleague, that the contribution to the debate would have animated you to make these requests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hostish.]] Mrs. Colleague! What are we then sitting for in committee? What have we debated in the committee for two hours about this agreement on works contracts, about the same content? – Come now But here you go to the speaker's desk and make a smile and sweet request for the other and say: Please agree! Many people will be grateful to you! I would like to stress once again, Mrs Colleague: Many people will be grateful if this work contract scheme, which has been adopted in the Structural Adjustment Act for the first time, is abolished. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the SPÖ:It means: "Work contract"]] Even at the ÖVP, there are divergent statements. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't know what you're talking about!]] Mr Donabauer, for example, spoke a fire and stressed the need for this law. However, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You have the opportunity today to agree to the various requests for the abolition of this contract! [[Call the SPÖ:Work contract!]] It does not prevent you from exercising your free mandate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No human can stop you from doing so! Get out of here! But outside, you speak quite differently than you vote here! Become from your practice They know, however, that this works contract scheme is really nonsensical. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It means "work contract"!]] Two years ago, when I gave my first speech here in this House, I started with the saying: The path to hell is paved with good intentions. – Minister! This does not mean any way to hell, Mr. Federal Minister Hums, but, for example, the path that you are preparing to hell with these works contracts of the population, in small steps, in hell of unemployment, in hell of frustration and in hell, in threesome prospects for the future. That is true, you know it very well, even if Mrs Silhavy smiles. But you are not among those who previously had a normal service relationship, which is now being terminated and who are granted a factory contract. [[Call the SPÖ:Work contract!]] They're given a contract of work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] They're shaking the head! You have already been removed so far that you no longer know what is going on in the population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's typical! You don't need to shake your head! I have spoken to hundreds of women who are now affected, Mrs Colleague. These women said: Now I get a work contract... [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's called Who's kv yielding!]] Don't fall on that one word! You have to grasp the meaning! But probably you are no longer in a position to capture something meaningful, because you are drilled and with scavengers Raise your handl because there's a club force with you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These women – Mrs Haller said it quite correctly – now have another scheme: With the social achievements with which you always go home and which you are so proud of, such as maternity allowance, leave allowance, youth unemployment schemes....
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7015	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'd have to interrupt you in half a minute. I'm just paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7030	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, you have the opportunity to abolish this incorrect regulation until the expert committee has actually agreed on what is now to be done with these cases.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7061	High house! I am now interrupting the debate on points 1 to 4 of the agenda in order to call for urgent procedure to be taken at 3.30 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure Deputies Dr. Friedhelm Frißenschlager, Mag. Thomas Barmüller, Dr. Volker Kierund Comrades on an employment and environmental tax reform (1284/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7097	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 1284/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7216	I give the floor to Mr Dr. Frisenschlager as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. The limited speaking time of 20 minutes must not be exceeded. Please, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7243	You have to ask that over there. [[pointing to the series of the Freeman’s series]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Which group are you with today: the Liberals or the Liberals?]] Mr President. High house! Federal Minister for Finance! We have put this urgent question today because we want to pursue the fate of the ecological tax reform programme. It is important for us to deal with this issue right now, because in the EU election campaign, in particular by social democracy, the issue of employment policy is focused – and I understand – on this because it is one of the most urgent social and therefore political problems. There is no doubt that an ecological tax reform would be a very crucial factor – not only in improving the environmental situation and thus in improving the living situation in the Republic, but also in any doubt that the environmental tax reform would be the opportunity to pursue environmental policy and employment policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since this is an employment policy issue, and because for us liberals in this election debate is the subject of "work of our fellow human beings", I would like to address this issue. Mr Finanzminister and my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party! On the one hand, your focus in the election campaign is understandable, because this is the most urgent problem, but on the other hand, I am not concerned about the suspicion that you are already concerned about getting rid of this problem towards the European Union. However, we should not do this because we know that if we were to assign such a decisive role to the European Union in employment policy, and if we cannot solve this expectation, as has often been so often in the context of European policy, the result would be a further rise in frustration towards this European Union and a further burden of this future policy-making at European level. Ladies and gentlemen! It's perfectly clear: Of course, a prerequisite for a reasonable employment environment is an effective, effective economy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is a clear matter, and the European Union is certainly absolutely responsible for this, because it can, as a functioning internal market, which is able to ensure, through economic efficiency, that work in the Member States is facilitated, that the appropriate economic conditions are met. A second point, of course, is growth. I am also surprised in this EU election campaign – especially if I listen to the contributions of the Greens to employment policy and to the Social Union at European level – as we are of course talking about growth policy as a prerequisite for employment today, while it is strange that it should actually be a matter of achieving qualitative growth, with the aim of achieving a maximum of employment for our fellow human beings, with as little and as sparing use of resources as possible, of energy, a maximum of value added in this way. – That would be the crucial point. That is why we believe it is important to debate the issue of environmental tax reform at this time. If I may return once again on the subject of European level: The European Union is, of course, a crucial factor in employment policy in Europe. The European Union is contributing through the Structural Funds, through the Cohesion Funds, to increasing the economic level within the European Union in order to achieve a stable labour market and social conditions. However, we must be clear about this – and this is very important to me, Mr Novotny – that the direct creation of employment by the European Union is not possible. This is a national task which depends mainly on how we shape labour law, how we shape commercial law, how we shape social law, how we shape service law. These are the key factors in how employment policy can be successfully implemented. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the basic principle is concerned, I am likely to reap little objection in this respect. But, Mr Finance Minister, I must return to the Federal Government, to this coalition government, which, in previous government declarations - from 1990, from 1994 - has also given a clear opinion on this. One of the objectives of this coalition government was to achieve environmental, but also social and employment effects through an environmental tax reform. Interestingly, there is nothing more to be found in the 1995 Declaration of Government – a fact that is also interesting because one can see how the great coalition has adopted this important national but also international objective. But that's not enough. The 1995 Government Declaration announced that additional wage costs should be kept stable. This would be something that is nothing new, nothing reformatory, but that is no more and no less than that one promises not to continue the way in the wrong direction at least in a programmed way. But that's all it is. But what you did then is the crucial point in which our criticism must be used massively: You have not only adopted the environmental tax reform as the goal, but you have done exactly the opposite. If you have introduced a tax on electricity, a natural gas tax in the course of the savings package due to purely budget holes needs, you have not only hit the environmental tax reform under this title but have even abused it. [[Abg. May. Main: Coal!]] And this is the crucial accusation that we must make you! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] At the heart of any environmental tax reform, it is to burden resources, but to pay off the work factor – but that is exactly what you did not do! Now you can say: This is what happened in the course of the budgetary reorganisation policy. It is particularly objectionable, however, that you have done so against better knowledge. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the great coalition that in 1995 — the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Agriculture — you tried to be drawn up by the Institute of Economic Research, which is the meaning of the environmental tax reform, the possibilities it opens up. You have done this, and Mr Bartenstein, if I remember correctly, presented this study together with the Minister for Agriculture. And precisely in this study, which is very interesting, which could be a good guideline for a reasonable tax policy in terms of employment policy and environmental policy, it is quite clear that what you have done with your energy taxation in the savings package is exactly the worst variant at all: to tax companies by higher energy taxes and thus to make employment more difficult, but at the same time to do nothing to reduce the additional wage costs in order to reduce the burden on labour. That's what it was. Your decisive mistake! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So there is no doubt that you have lost sight of the objective of the ecological tax reform, that you have misused the environmental tax reform as a concept that you have taken the very wrong path that can be taken in this situation. And you have done this against better knowledge. Why is this such a pressing thing, ladies and gentlemen? – As clearly as the goal for all reasonable energy, social and employment politicians, we must be clear about this: The ecological tax reform is something that cannot, of course, be carried out abruptly from today to tomorrow. One thing is very crucial: The sooner we start with this fundamental economic, tax and employment changeover, the closer we can address it, the longer the transition periods apply, the easier we can make economic policy this transition into a completely new, forward-looking policy – with the aim of enabling qualitative growth rather than what is happening now. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is another crucial point: The sooner we start, the easier we can use the national possibilities of autonomous political environmental tax reform as a single country, the easier we can go this way without hindering the international economic situation. It is about this adaptation process, which is really very crucial. You leave the Federal Government one year after another and you even lose sight of this goal – therefore this urgent request. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the question of the extent to which we have political margin in Austria. Of course, it is a matter of course that the objection of the international equation must be taken very seriously into account, especially in a situation in the internal market. It is also clear from this Wifo study that we not only have the legal possibilities to act autonomously here – that is absolutely crucial. But above all: There are international practical examples that show us that environmental tax reform is widely possible on its own and, above all, that the effects that can be achieved are remarkable. I would like to take the Danish as the only example. In Denmark, this path was already taken at the beginning of the 1990s by introducing a massive tax on fossil fuels by: Energy has been heavily taxed, but with this – and that is the decisive – employment policy effects have been achieved, which are significant, around one third of unemployment has been reduced at this time: from the admittedly very high level from 12 percent to 8 percent. In my view, this is the crucial example, which shows how useful and how effective it is in terms of employment, through national measures and in an autonomous way. We should cut ourselves off from that, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, clearly addresses the questions we have raised to the Minister for Finance today: We are concerned that we can achieve a threefold effect with the environmental tax reform. Firstly, with regard to economic recovery, because the environmental sector is internationally recognized as a very booming industry. It is in the interests of the environment and it is in the interests of the labour market. That is why, Minister of Finance, the following questions: I would like to know why a study commissioned by you – not specifically by you, Mr Finanzminister, but by the Federal Government – could mean an ideal basis for an ecological tax reform or the start of an ecological tax reform, so why this government-owned study is so disregarded. I would like to know from you – after you have introduced a springy tax on the damage to the economy, to the detriment of employment policy – whether we have to expect other such springy taxes in the wrong direction. I would like to know how you assess the international scope and autonomous energy policy development and the corresponding fiscal scope. And above all, I would like to know how you want to deal with this so urgent problem in what time frame. For one thing is not going – and this is my concern – that, on the one hand, we cry great after job creation through the European Union and the national possibilities that national political areas do not benefit from. This is from the trade regulation on shop opening times, which goes over the additional wage costs to the ecological tax reform, which is the central employment, environmental and economic instrument for the benefit of this country, and at the same time could be an incentive for European development in this right direction. Therefore, these questions. I also ask you to answer them exactly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7372	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Viktor Climate Report. I'm asking you not to exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7396	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate you as a subject-oriented politician, so I will try to answer this question seriously and openly, and not to attribute it to the EU election campaign, even though you yourself have turned the bow to the current election campaign on the occasion of the election of the European Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Right!]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words on the preliminary remarks made by your urgent question. In the context of employment policy, they are so similar in the area that the market solves the problems and that state intervention and regulatory measures have not proved to be effective. I give you the right – but only if we had not been expelled from Paradise. I mean, If we had an ideal market with ideal market participants, we could expect social and environmental conditions to be achieved through the market. Not too long ago, General Vicar Schüller said that we should not forget that there was a case of sin, and that there is therefore a need for clear regulatory measures, if necessary State intervention, in order to achieve the desired political objectives, such as employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Austrian Federal Government has shown in this sense that there can be effective measures. I should like to remind you, for example, that under the consolidation programme, the Structural Adjustment Act, we have not only focused on saving, but also on very specific measures relating to employment policy. Measures in the area of additional resources to provide infrastructure development – I am referring to the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act in this regard, I recall the law to complete the gaps in the high-performance network and more. I also recall, for example, that we have designed an additional tranche in the recovery of old loads, an additional tranche in the environmental and water management funds, each with 1 billion schillings, very active. I would also like to remind you that there are also concrete measures in the context of the lighter economy or the lighter reason for business: for example, savings in foundation, or equity capital for small and medium-sized enterprises with the guarantee by the FGG, for example the question of venture capital, because we know in Austria that there is no venture capital market, but also other issues that still need to be dealt with. It is indisputable that the question of simplifying authorisations, procedures, concentration or also the question of easier access to commerce is points of reform of the trade regulations which are under negotiation and need to be implemented quickly. It is undisputed that we also need improvements in the capital market, because we know that the Austrian economy has a total capital weakness, we need a new market segment for small and medium-sized enterprises and more. Financial policy also makes its contribution in these certainly not easy times, in times of tight cash and strictest calculation. We have managed, according to the motto "to collect existing taxes instead of raising taxes", to obtain the attractive tax conditions for corporate investment in Austria. We have an exemplary corporate tax rate of 34 percent. For example, we do not have a property tax, we do not have a commercial income tax, which is now strongly disputed and discussed in Germany. These are already excellent framework conditions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Since you meant that there would be no means for alternative energies or energy-saving measures, I would like to remind you of the following: We have agreed that 800 million schilling from the energy levy should be made available to the countries for energy-saving measures. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Do you check this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Mr Schweitzer. First of all, I can remind you that there is no such thing. What you're saying is something else, that's the intended increase in the oil tax, that's a second issue. But it is a question of maintaining, as part of the financial compensation, that 800 million schilling from the energy levy is available to countries and communities for energy-saving measures. I am in principle right, Mr President, if you think that higher resource prices will base the thoughts and innovativeness of management on resource-saving. Unfortunately, we have seen that the total renewal power of managers and entrepreneurs has focused over the last one and a half decades on reducing the cost factor of work. It has become a fashion – and it is the productivity increases that resulted from it enormously, one has to say that quite openly and clearly, although – and this is a supplementary economic condition or marginality – you certainly know that the leading economist Hamel, who has developed all these focussings on core tasks and so on in Harvard, is already warning against the corporate annexia, is already beginning to warn against company magistrate. This leads to the loss of power of companies that simply consume themselves, because they are based solely on the reduction in the number of employees, to develop new products, to open up new markets. That's also proven. Steven Roache, for example, has made a study that shows that companies that announce terminations are enormously rising within three months in the stock price, but within a long period of three years are being recovered by their competitors because they simply lose the strength to do new things in new markets. However, I insist that it is important to direct the focus of management power, innovation towards resource minimization thanks to expensive resources, and we have, and I am, also tried to make a transition. They know that we have covered the new energy levy on gas and electricity for the manufacturing companies with 0.35% of net production, so that the production factor is not overly heavy and there is an adjustment process for the companies. However, you also know, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria has strongly expressed its support for the continued efforts by Commissioner Monti in his work to harmonise an ecological tax system in addition to the work on harmonizing the tax on capital, excise duties on consumption and business. And I think that in this location competition in which we are located we must very, very, very strongly pay attention to a common procedure. I'd like to ask you for one more thing. They shall refer to the Court of Justice of the European Their statements on the strength and innovative power of the German, French and Swedish companies in the field of waste treatment, waste water treatment, smoke-gas desulphurisation and more. Please do not underestimate the performance of the Austrian industry in this area! I have - I like to admit - preferred to have been in the Emerging Markets in recent years with a large number of economic representatives, for example in the markets of Southeast Asia, South Africa or India and also Vietnam. These countries need efficient energy infrastructure, waste disposal, waste water management. There Austrian companies that have an excellent reputation there are already very successful in the business. Look at Rotterdam. In the middle of the city is the largest waste combustion plant with a world-wide unique smoke gas desulphurisation and dedusting plant according to Austrian technology. So I would ask you not to refer to foreign examples, particularly in international statements, but we have a number of Austrian companies that have excellent quality to offer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the On question 1 concerning the Structural Adjustment Act: Excuse me, if I say, I believe that this is a fundamental recognition of the purpose of the structural adjustment package and also of the budgetary situation. I agree immediately that the main reason for the inclusion of gas and electricity in the energy levy was to contribute to the necessary consolidation of the State budget. I have never occurred and have said that we are doing this exclusively in the sense of an environmental tax reform, which, of course, should have brought about a relief from the work factor. I have never said that, and no one has said half brighter in his head, but it is clear that this contribution is a contribution... [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: The Federal Chancellor said it!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I know what I am saying, I do not know if you know what you are saying, but I have never claimed that this measure would have been exclusively in the sense of an environmental tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen! We have – allow me to say thank you once again, on one hand, but especially the Austrians, that they have performed an achievement in the history of the Austrian post-war and also in Europe without comparison: In one and a half years 4 percent of the gross domestic product in deficit reduction, i.e. 100 billion schilling, is a huge achievement that Austrians and Austrians have accomplished. You know, we have undertaken to save two thirds on the expenditure side and one third on the revenue side. And there is and was the contribution from the energy levy undisputed a part of revenue. I would say that I would not have found the LIF's approval of the alternative, namely the increase of other taxes, ladies and gentlemen. On the subject of the study of the Wifo, I can tell you that it is almost trivial that, on the one hand, compensation measures, reduction of additional wage costs, are effective in employment, but, if that is not the case, it does not have an employment effect, that is clear anyway. I believe that this does not require a lot of scientific expertise. The Wifo has also documented in its version II – "budget consolidation" – that it is a budget-effective measure in the sense of more resources for the budget, and that is it. There's nothing to beautify. In addition, I believe that the Structural Adjustment Act itself – for example, the question of the expansive demand effects in relation to storage solutions and so on – is also based on employment policy measures. On question 2: Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the energy tax on natural gas and electricity, which has been introduced with this lid, has not led to significant problems within the Austrian industry and that this has been done with the necessary degree of attention. I believe that the accusation of economic hostility is going to be empty. It must also be said that almost three-quarters of the energy levy is borne by consumers and that, by covering the production sector, the limits of industry and the production sector are quite acceptable and accepted by them. Question 3: Ladies and gentlemen! I agree, of course, with you that it is necessary to ensure sustainable social, environmental, economic developments for a long-term increase in prosperity and to ensure the long-term security of resources. There are already a number of such already existing tax structures. The NOVA is an example that goes in this direction. I believe that we should continue to develop this in the longer term, that we need to discuss a major tax reform in all openness, but not in the form of a quick shot. I asked the chairman of the Tax Reform Commission to me in summer so that we can deal very carefully and thoroughly with the possibilities and effects of a new litter in the field of tax legislation. As far as the environmental industry is concerned, I believe that Austria, in my opinion, has a very important environmental industry and has also been able to offer international competition under the support programmes. On question 4, on the role of concrete state intervention in employment and environmental policy objectives: I believe that it is very, very important to establish minimum standards of social security, occupational safety, the averting of risks and also concrete environmental objectives, such as emission standards or immission protection, but also national parks from the State side, with interventions. In addition, you know that I believe that the State has the damned duty and guilt to provide a material and intangible framework in the field of infrastructure, including private capital, as far as possible, in order to provide the economy with good conditions for employment policy objectives. I believe, of course, that in the field of employment policy in Austria, the question of the quality of jobs plays a special role, the quality of skilled workers and engineers, and that, for example, the question of apprentices should finally come to a constructive solution. Question 5: In my opinion, the structural restructuring of the Austrian economy, which is intended to eliminate a whole series of traditional regulations, is in progress. The expansion of the tax base while at the same time abolishing derogations, the ecological orientation in the field of NOVA and a low input tax burden are, in my view, useful market instruments with a steering character. On question 6: Ladies and gentlemen! This question concerns the reduction of the tax burden on the production factor at work. It is undisputed that the current regulation, that we have a high mobility of capital, not only in Europe but worldwide, and that the capital therefore flows to the places of the most favourable investment conditions, in turn leads to a tax competition in the field of corporate and capital taxation, in order to keep the level of taxation for the States alike, of course, this development leads to a reduction in the corporate and capital taxes in competition, but has not lowered the other factors, but has even tended to increase in the long term. The fact that this is a major European problem is undisputed. However, I believe that we cannot solve this problem by means of protectionism in trade conditions, and it would be important for us to set very minimum labour standards in Singapore under the World Trade Agreement, for example against child labour, for assembly freedom. However, I believe that it is also very important here that we have to deal with these issues within the framework of the strong European Community, within the framework of ECOFIN. In this sense, I also see the task of Mr Monti to continue to work on the harmonisation of tax systems so that we can finally get out of this infinite spiral. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Question 7: Deputies! If I have understood you correctly, then you do not mean tax reductions, which are of course desirable, but are not possible due to the budgetary situation, but you only mean tax redeployments. Even the Wifo report says that tax redundancies in themselves have little employment effects and that the employment importance of tax redundancies should not be overestimated. Question 8 with regard to international competitiveness and the development of additional labour costs: Please allow me a comment, and I assume that you know it anyway. What really plays a role in international competition is unit labour costs. In real unit labour costs, for example, there was a reduction in Austria in 1995. The European Union is forecasting a real reduction in unit labour costs for Austria for 1996. It also predicts a reduction in unit labour costs for 1997. Hat off in front of the Austrian economy and the Austrian industry, which could also achieve such an increase in productivity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yeah, everybody together. I just want to add that it was not easy to prove. Just remember, for example, that ten years ago the dollar was worth twice as much as it is today. This means that today, in the world markets, Austrian products have to be twice as expensive, something that is not the case thanks to God. This is due only to the achievements of the Austrian economy, the Austrian workers, the Austrian entrepreneurs who made these competitive factors so well that they could actually overturn this currency competition. Perhaps one more comment because these additional wage costs must already be considered fairly. If you assume that we are 13th and 14th. If we are falsely always counted among the additional wage costs, you will see that Austria is not so bad in the case of real additional wage costs, but is in the good middle of the international comparison. On questions 9 and 10 concerning the competitiveness factors and the economic location of Austria: As you cite the example Semperit, I would like to say: I'm right about you, and I don't want to be chauvinistic here. We are very glad that tens of thousands of jobs, good, qualified jobs in Austria are offered and kept by companies with foreign owners: from Grundig to General Motors via Chrysler to Siemens and so on. I'm really happy about it. But I recognize that in those sectors which are of strategic importance to Austria, where it is still possible, we must achieve privatisations, ownership structures while preserving national interests. I think that's very important. The example of Semperit shows us that we might have had the opportunity to apply the successful model of privatisation in respect of national interests, as we have now practiced at Böhler-Uddeholm, at VA-Tech, at VA-steel, to OMV. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing is undisputed: that there is, of course, a special challenge for Austria. Not only through the political changes of 1989, through the opening of the East, but also through this global competition that is due to us. One of our biggest assets is the quality of our skilled workers, but also the technical and immaterial conditions that we offer to the economy. I can tell you, for example, that at the beginning of the 1990s, we had an increased flow of Austrian capital abroad, which was stronger than the flow of foreign capital to Austria, but that we were able to achieve a significant return in the first half of this year and that much more capital had flowed to Austria than had been lost. This shows the attractiveness of Austria's economic location. As far as Question 11 is concerned, I can tell you that the essential basis for this was established by the amendment of the Environmental Promotion Act in the framework of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act and by a recast of the 1996 Environmental Funding Directive. I would also like to remind you that in this context a billion schilling has been made available for the very intensive waste management and waste recovery, in addition a billion schilling for the very labour-intensive work in the area of the water management fund and the canal buildings and, as mentioned above, the 800 million shilling from the energy levy for energy-saving measures. In conclusion, I believe that we have to deal with the question of further ecologisation of the tax system in a very consistent and careful manner within the framework of the Tax Reform Commission. However, I believe that the consolidation programme has succeeded in implementing very important employment policies. It is not by chance that Austria has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world at 4.1 percent, and that the world economy country of the USA, whose job growth is at 5.4 percent, still has a quarter higher unemployment rate than Austria. In this sense, I hope to have dealt with your requests in full. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7514	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that there is a block-time limit per group of 25 minutes and a single time limit of 10 minutes. Mr Dr Kier has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7541	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to address a formal error here. I believe that the Federal Minister did not see the question 11 on the last page when answering the urgent question. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: No!]] I do not have a response component in the ear that dealt with biomass, biogas, solar energy, wind power generation and so on – in other words, the area that is also called "alternative energy production" in the country. He's got us from waste disposal, waste and so on... [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Oh yes! Plus 800 million schilling for alternative energies!]] All right, then I take note that your answer is that these 800 million, which you mentioned, are to flow from the energy levy to the countries and are part of the financial compensation. I have to say that this is an answer in the formal sense, but the content of the matter is in no way adequate to the problem, if we know that the countries have very different approaches to this issue first and, secondly, they have already proved in the past that they are not able to find solutions. Lambach is a typical country-political problem, and that says everything about the access of a federal state to the question of alternative energy supply forms in relation to investments that do not expect from the outset. It seems important to me, however, to point out that you, Mr Federal Minister, have carried out here in a reasonable way that nobody – you have chosen the words: "no bright head" - the opinion was that what the Federal Government has done to the energy taxes within the framework of the savings package would have been something different from a budget measure, a budget adjustment based on the creation of revenue. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, both in his statement of government and in the debate on the budgets, the Federal Chancellor has presented this to us in such a way that it is a first step in environmental tax reform. At the time, all the representatives of the opposition parties rightly opposed and said that this is the opposite of an ecological tax reform. This may also be due to the fact that you took the first wrong step in 1995, and after you have followed up on natural gas and electricity in 1996, you have no longer noticed that you are actually only organizing more money acquisition actions. It is refreshing today that you admit it. We like to hold on to that. From your mouth it is also authentic and placed on the right professional label. What you have called energy tax until recently was one of the measures to reorganise the budget in monetary terms. In fact, it does not contribute to structural rehabilitation. I think that is a very essential point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The core of the Liberal Question was the structural context. And there is this structural link between energy taxes and the labour market. You yourself said to recognize this, you don't need a special study. I'm glad, too. Yesterday, however, some of us heard it differently. We have heard that the need for evaluation has not yet been exhausted, we need to examine more. There is the famous argument: No single entry! That was always an argument of the opponents of the reform. However, what you did was purely fiscal political and only for budget recovery, was a typical single entry. Or have you harmonised these surcharge taxes on energy across Europe? - You didn't do that. They have thus proved that, when it comes to burden, a single entry is possible when it comes to an ecological tax reform, it is apparently not, as it is very complex. I would like to make that clear to you, and that is why it is a real argument. Of course, it is better to raise the problem at European level, but it would be easier to bring it to the European level if Austria could claim to be a pioneer. But unfortunately, this is not possible with this access. You would have had a means to clean up both the budget in your understanding by means of revenue and to make an ecological tax reform, you should have just said – you have made a two-year budget –: Unfortunately, we have to prefer the revenue side for budgetary reasons, because we lack the money in the back and front, which we have spent a little bit too easy in the years before, but we decide already today, in at the latest two years the reduction in the additional wage costs begins. In fact, it would have been decisive for many investors if they had already known, in two or two and a half years at least this destruction will begin. But not even this hint was to get you out. Investment decisions do not fall from today to tomorrow, they also have a small advance period. And if you can rely on that from 1. A paradigm change is taking place in the case of additional wage costs in January 1997 or 1998, then much would have been gained and some investment decision might be made differently in international location competition. Of course, you are right with your argument about unit labour costs, which is correct, which is ultimately important. Only, Mr Federal Minister, with permission, the additional wage costs are included as an element in unit labour costs – and what would be bad if unit labour costs were even lower? Then we would be even more competitive than we are at present, but in some cases we are not quite the same. From this understanding, your question response has been serious for me, informative, but also – and this is really a pity – in the back, confirming what we have always said. I don't know if that was your intention to confirm what we've always said. I do not want to experience that we depend on the EU to teach us. I would like our Members working in the EU, in particular those of our group, to be able to refer to the example of Austria in order to achieve more at European level. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Your argumentation – and it seems to me to be structurally conservative or dissatisfied – is rather: The EU will already put pressure on us, or it will help us to improve our mistakes in the labour market, for example. That, I believe, is not good, because it was not our idea that we should go to the EU so that we can put our political responsibility in the wardrobe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7606	The Federal Minister – Please, Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7627	I just want to ensure that there is no confusion here – You can then read it safely in the protocol – make it a short clarification. I have said that no one, including me, has claimed that the inclusion of gas and electricity in the energy levy has been done solely for ecological reasons and in the sense of an ecological tax reform, but that it has been an urgent contribution to budget recovery, which, of course, also contains ecological elements, but has been an urgent contribution in this direction. [[Abg. Wabl: Declaration of Government of 13. March 1996 – Franz Vranitzky!]] So I have not said that it has nothing to do with ecologisation, but I have said that this measure has not been directed exclusively towards ecologisation, but has, in my view, been put forward as a matter of urgency for budget adjustment. It also includes elements in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7663	Mr Dr. Novotny has now been reported on the floor. – Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7684	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The subject of the question is undoubtedly interesting. To be honest, I am not so sure whether it is really such an immediate urgent problem. But I would like to fail to comment on other urgent problems that the Liberal Party may be currently dealing with. If you read through the request, I have to say that it is rather a bit of an economic-theoretical essay, a kind of seminary work – but I want to abstain from assessing it. But it's undoubtedly right: The concept of using taxes as an instrument of ecological governance is a relevant and interesting concept. And like others in this house, I have been dealing with this subject for a long time. Only, ladies and gentlemen, that alone, the theoretical conception, is not enough. The crucial point is that practical implementation is being addressed. And that is, I believe, the crucial point that we as politicians have to discuss here. It is, for example, right to address the question of price elasticities in your request, which must already be pointed out that, in the short and medium term, these price elasticities for energy taxes or energy consumption are in any case low. There are clear studies on this. That means to say quite practically: If you want to achieve noticeable steering effects here, you need to increase the corresponding prices very significantly. Your example of slowing this down in homeopathic doses is nothing at all. There is a very clear study by the colleague Schneider from Linz, who says: If this remains below the mark limit, it does not exactly have this steering effect. One cannot go into an ecological tax reform. Either you have to do it with all the drama, but then you have to confess to it. This is a concept that can be pursued. I would have liked to know, however, what price increases you are looking for. You, just as your colleague Wabl did on other occasions, have this shamefully hidden here. [[Abg. Wabl: Please! ...]] Then tell me, How high is the fuel price supposed to rise in your opinion? I'm open for an answer, but I don't hear it. So, Mr Wabl, you can't play it that way. One cannot say that energy policy is one thing according to the motto: Wash my fur, but don't make me wet! If you stand up for this, you also have to act with all the consequences for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second area you mentioned is the area of substitution elasticities: Most econometric studies show that these are rather null in the short term and are also rather small in the longer term. In other words, even this aspect of the fact that more labour-intensive forms of production are involved is rather unrealistic. Of course, what is of interest is the question of the tax and tax burden on labour and the question: Do we have this as an instrument to influence the demand for work? There is also a great discussion about this, both in the scientific field and now in the EU field. The answer, of course, is not as simple as in most cases. But some things are clear. First: The demand for work, of course, depends mainly on the overall economic demand. No human being, no entrepreneur will recruit workers only because they will be cheaper if the products to be produced with them cannot be discontinued. [[Abg. May. Peter: Now!]] No, you say, but that's what's going to be overlooked by all those who believe I only need the additional wage costs to reduce the wage costs – and I already have more employment. That's not exactly the case. [[Abg. May. Peter: This does not lead to a reduction in gross wages!]] The question here is whether wage cuts, under which title always – and most of the time under the beautiful name "flexibilization", and we have just had such a discussion between the Federal Chamber of Commerce and the Industrial Association – create employment. No, it's not just a job. I am glad that you confirm this as a practitioner here. It is just something different than, unfortunately, most of the interests of the entrepreneurship side are said. Therefore: The essential point is once again the question of total economic demand. Of course, for certain sensitive areas, the question arises whether the issue of additional labour costs or labour costs is a certain matter in certain areas, which are particularly delimitable. There are also studies on this subject that show: If at all, this is most likely in the area of low income groups of relevance. For the higher income groups, the issue of additional wage costs hardly plays a role. Here you can consider whether there can be any discharges. I should like to remind you that we had such a discussion here in the House on the question of the introduction of the municipal tax, where a concept was presented by the Social Democrats – also with Minister Lacina at the time – which means the municipal tax, that is, the pay-a-mount tax, to increase less or to avoid falling for lower income groups and to include depreciations in the basis of assessment. This would undoubtedly have meant a redundancie on the pay side, but unfortunately it was strictly rejected by the business associations so that we could not implement this concept. I still think it is an interesting approach and I believe that we should leave it here in the discussion. Next point – and this is, of course, a fundamental point in the whole concept – is the question: What about the international connection? Of course, this always sounds very nice when it is said that Austria should play a pioneering role here, and Denmark would have done something like that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Here too, Mr Wabl, is the truth. You have to look at these things carefully now. Of course, there are certain spaces that we have used in part. Mr Kier pointed out that we took advantage of certain areas of flexibility in the tax measures we have put in the energy sector – but only in certain areas. All that goes beyond that is actually linked to the danger that we will worsen the relative position with other countries, which is, of course, directly at the expense of employment. Denmark – if you look at it carefully – is not an example. Firstly, the overall taxation of energy in Austria is not much lower than in Denmark. I should like to point out to you that in Austria, for example, we have the normal rate of VAT on energy, while in Denmark there is a favourable rate. In other words, we have an energy tax under a different title. However, we have made them so conscious that we have relieved the export industry. Second point: You should not forget that Denmark has a slightly different economic structure. There are no steel plants in Denmark, there is no paper industry. If you think about it now, let's give up, then say it! We are not of this opinion. We believe that in Austria we have an industrial structure that is particularly important for the dynamics of our economy, and we also want to maintain this industrial structure in the interests of employees. This is the end of the day. I think it is interesting to discuss these things, but it is dangerous to start a discussion without taking into account the real economic realities. And from our point of view, from the responsibility towards employees in this country and their families, and hence also the income developments in Austria, we believe that this careful path we are taking is the right way for Austria and for its employees.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7763	The honourable Member's head has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7819	Mr President. Federal Minister! Estimatedly present fellow Members. [[Abg. Wabl: In principle a very interesting proposal!]] The fact that economic decisions, as suggested in the Liberals' request, are also based essentially on prices or on profitability considerations is certainly nothing new. This also applies to energy prices, which, of course, also applies to the price of human work. We face major challenges in Austria. Let's look at the goals: Full employment and resource conservation and emission reduction. We face challenges, especially when looking at the current situation: third highest labour costs in the EU, rising unemployment, although the absolute figures still look relatively good compared to other relatively good, unsatisfying emission trends, even though the absolute figures here are not as bad as others or better than others. All of this is also due to a number of other measures that we have already put in place here. The conclusion of this is, in fact, simple and correct and has also been found in the request for the Liberal Forum, namely that tax policy can influence pricing and, as a steering instrument, is therefore quite appropriate to influence economic decisions. It was quite interesting to read an article by Joschka Fischer, the Green Group leader in Germany, in today's "Neue Zürcher Zeitung", which also mentions that environmental regulation law can be largely deregulated by such steering measures. And one thing I can say on the spot: This is not an invention or a knowledge of the Liberal Forum, it was the ÖVP, and it was still under Joschi Riegler, who developed the eco-social concept, but not only developed it, but also showed it. [[Abg. Wabl: Now we know it again!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: That's right, the Riegler was!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Unfortunately he was not very successful!]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] We have already achieved many steps from this concept – small steps – in the sense of what Mr Novotny said before, the careful path leading to success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now you've caught her!]] If we discuss this question, then we must not forget one thing, namely the framework conditions under which we are discussing this question today, our peripheral position on the eastern part of Europe, the growing industrial structure, which has been mentioned before by colleagues Novotny, the paper industry and the steel industry. We can't negate these and not discuss them away. We cannot also discuss the 1995 budget situation, which has made the second part of this energy or environmental tax impossible, namely the relief on the labour cost side. But after all, we have succeeded in preventing further increases in additional costs. We cannot simply discuss and ignore these framework conditions. The Wifo study, which is quoted again and again, considers a national single entry in Austria to be possible – in the area of taxation we have also exploited the margin, and has already referred to it – but if a shift of 6 to 15 billion schilling results in an employment increase of 0.4 per cent annually, then, one must say, this is already moving in the area of statistical intensification and fluctuations which do not necessarily force action to be exerciseable. One thing must not be overlooked: the burden on private households. The Federal Minister mentioned that it would be primarily the private households that would have to bear it. One thing seems to me to be interesting in the Liberal question: the reference to Semperit, even if this is not directly related. Apart from that, the development there is certainly not due to an industrial policy that is close to our party, but CA Director-General Androsch and then Minister of Finance Vranitzky are responsible for this. The Federal Minister has, for me, surprisingly also pointed out that it could and should have been done differently. But measures and possibilities to prevent outsourcing – if we are already at Semperit – are very good. Just a few days ago, our Minister for Economic Affairs presented this, namely a massive simplification of plant law. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: New tires!]] Mr President, I should like to thank That's going to be I hope you're right, too. Look at the proposal, it's revolutionary! There is a concrete proposal on the table. [[Abg. Wabl: The tables on the border!]] On the other hand, it is not very helpful if, on the other hand, our Minister of Social Affairs, in the field of working time flexibility, which one would need at least as urgently, does not continue to do anything but congratulates us on a law of night work which no one can really need at the moment. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is an old hat!]] To afford to work in order to eliminate discrimination against women, to make everyone else expensive the work at night, it may not be possible to do so. I would like to praise our Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are no national strategies against these outsourcing trends, which take place in the course of this international globalisation, which are caused by the exploitation of the different prices for work and energy, which in turn are caused by dumping, which is present, in both social and environmental standards. It is probably unwarranted to quote Joschka Fischer in this regard, who has also confirmed this. On the other hand, there are no national strategies. Hans Peter Martin, too, comes to a similar conviction and knowledge in his book, which has recently caused so much excitement, "The Fall of Globalization". On the other hand, there is only one strategy, and this is a European Union that sees itself as an eco-social Union setting standards in the environmental and social sphere, just as the Social Charter of the EIA has just set out in the direction of the EU. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Joschi Riegler!]] This is the strategy, the only effective strategy against it, but certainly not national experiments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7993	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8014	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am pleased that the Liberal Forum has finally decided on the second occasion to which Minister the question is addressed. The first urgent question was not yet addressed to a minister, but now the Minister of Finance is here. We can therefore also discuss the urgency and environmental tax reform with the Minister for Finance. The issue of ecologisation of the tax system at national level, but also at international level, is extremely important and future-oriented. That is why the Liberal Group has been working intensively on this issue for years now. Together with well-known experts from universities and so on, we have developed appropriate concepts and are at any time ready to enter into a discussion on the ecologisation of the Austrian tax system again. But – and this has already been mentioned today – I really can't see the urgency of this request, Mr. Frischenschlager. The only urgency is that – you have mentioned it yourself in your honest manner –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner]] EU elections are underway. And in view of this, it might be very good to discuss once again the greening of tax law, the EU problem here in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was not easy for you, but it was also mentioned on the verge. Surprisingly, the Federal Minister for Finance has explained to us today – surprisingly, for me – that it was never really meant to achieve an exclusively ecological effect with the electricity and gas tax and the mineral oil tax. Professor Nowotny has said from the beginning, after a short period of thought, okay, that all has to be put into the budget. That's an honest statement, Hut. But the Federal Chancellor and many others in the SPÖ have sold this tax increase as an eco-tax reform and have thus brought the citizen back to light. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny, too!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I am pleased that you are so honest here today because we then know exactly what the citizen has to expect of taxes in the future when you are talking about ecologizing the tax system. But they also said that households are heavily burdened. Unfortunately, even here again, the most socially weak, pensioners, pensioners, are disproportionately affected. For this reason, the liberals have always called for the introduction of eco-taxes to be carried out neutrally and for at least temporary arrangements for energy-intensive, export-oriented plants, as they did in the cover-up. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: With households!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: What does it have to do with households?]] This has to do with the budgets in such a way as to stop the budget holes that have been heavily burdened by households. Mr Fischenschlager as the first signatory to this urgent question. It is written in the Preamble that an energy tax must be tax-neutral. – In principle, yes, but that is too little. If it is not cost-neutral for certain establishments at a transitional stage, the following shall happen: Then we will export jobs and import the pollutants, because the pollutants do not have tax limits. Federal Minister! They have also once again attracted the good system of operating taxation in Austria. It's right, I'll call it. Abolition of property tax, gradual abolition of commercial, capital and commercial income tax. Great! However, you must not only look at taxes, you must also look at the taxes, the total tax rate. There we are at around 43 percent of the top. It will be up to the next few years to reduce this tax and tax rate accordingly. I agree with you, Mr Federal Minister, if you say that tax law is harmonised, internationalized, especially when it comes to taxation of capital assets. It is indeed true that capital is already so mobile that, if we fail to achieve an international equality, in future the economy will only be more interested in making appropriate financial investments and not investment. High house! From a liberal point of view: We are ready at any time to bring in our extensive experience in the area of ecologisation of the tax system in all the working groups, committees and subcommittees. We are also happy to be willing when it comes to real ecologisation, to give our consent to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8098	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8119	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Novotny's remarks. Sometimes I have the impression or the feeling that one can be afraid of death in your debates on energy taxation. They haven't moved a millimeter in the last few years. There are always the same arguments. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Reason is not bad either!]] I am absolutely for reasonable solutions, precisely because I consider the introduction of an energy tax or, in general, the introduction of eco-taxes – including employment policy – reasonable. That is why there are so many proposals from our side. That is why we have been trying for years to push this issue forward. We always hit you, always with the same arguments: international competition, difficulties. – The whole life is difficult, but we are called to act as politicians. They stand out here, including the Minister, and say how difficult the world is. Yeah, well, I'll give you a hand. But perhaps you can sit down and try to solve these difficulties. There have been years... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You want to improve the world!]] Also, Mr. Novotny! I believe that there should also be something like an objective in the field of economic policy, Mr Novotny. One should have an idea and an idea in which direction it should go. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is not enough for economic policy! Responsibility!]] If you just try to keep any components, manage in a world that actually changes completely, without really formulating a clear strategy... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We have them!]] No, you don't. In the field of energy taxation, you only have to block the strategy, prevent it and explain to us how complicated and difficult it is and unfortunately it is not possible at the moment. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We have priority employment!]] For six years, I've heard: Unfortunately, it is not possible at the moment! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We have a different priority than you, you must accept that!]] I would be interested in what your priorities are. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Our priority is employment!]] If your priority is employment policy, Mr Novotny, the less I understand that you are getting in here. There are – and this has been quoted here today – Wifo studies, there are studies from the IHS that are closer to you. It can be read everywhere that resource taxes, especially national resource taxes, create jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: No, it's not that simple!]] Tell me your employment recipe! You, your Federal Chancellor, your Minister of Finance stand out here and say: We create 30 000 jobs through an initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm sorry, but Off. That's all you're saying. How to Make You do? When are you doing that? What measures do you take? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Listen!]] I very much listen to you, Minister of Finance. Today, you have very disappointed me with your speech, because it was just as inconsistuous and blocking as those words which I am unfortunately always listening to from Mr Novotny. There are solution models. It's not new. It has already been quoted here. There is the example of Denmark. There are other examples on the basis of which it has been shown that if one is careful to introduce resource taxes and at the same time to reduce labour taxes, one can actually achieve something in terms of employment policy. In the present situation, Mr Novotny, I can give you a concrete example. There are around 100 wind turbine projects in Austria whose operators do not trust to invest, because alternative energy, with regard to the supply of electricity, expires at the end of this year. Mr Finanzminister! These are jobs! I personally know these people. I know they want to do this, they want to invest. There you can create jobs. Only recently has your own party colleague Scheer held a press conference with us, with the opposition parties, and pointed out the employment aspects in this area. They can create jobs in the field of renewable energy, biomass, wind power. We have already done it in Austria with subsidies which, as I mean, are still insufficient, but which are now running out. Mr Finanzminister! What are we doing? – For half a year, I have been trying – I hope it will succeed in finding a solution with you in the next few weeks – as there will no longer be funding for renewable energy sources in the energy network from January 1997 onwards. This could be done in concrete terms – this is one of many examples – jobs. What you've done is the exact opposite. They have taxed electricity from renewable energy. The urgent question has finally been resolved today, and I am therefore glad that it has been put here. The Minister of Finance has admitted that the energy levy was only for the budget. We have always said this, the opposition parties have always said this here in this House. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Not exclusively!]] I can remember other speeches. You just said that was a budget measure. The energy levy had no ecological effect. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Not exclusively!]] Not exclusively. We'll take a look at this in the minutes. I remember it differently. We'll take a look at it in the minutes. Even if it remained, it discredited this idea. What happened? – Unfortunately, the topic has long been discredited in the population. It has been seen in this way – I mean, rightly – as energy has now been taxed from budget regeneration aspects and not because one has a goal. At least you would have done it by saying: This is a first step, but the steps two, three, four, five look like that! But that's not it. I can't see a concept. And not just me, Dr. Wörgötter, whom you are also very close to, Mr Novotny, made visible to all in the "time in the picture" last week, making it speechless for economic policy and strategylessness in this country. That makes me speechless. After I've been here in the house for a few years, I'm unscrupulous. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Obviously not speechless!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Unscrupulous!]] I'm really upset. You have the great power, you have a two-thirds majority here and always explain to us what is not going on. I would like to know what is going on and why you do not solve such problems where there are solutions and where Austria can play a very special role. It's a mystery to me. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We have shown you that!]] To you, ladies and gentlemen. – He has now apparently gone out of the hall. – Poor Joschi Riegler must stand for everything as soon as there is an ecological debate. Last week an interview with him was in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten". He has said that he very much regrets the fact that the eco-social path has been abandoned by the ÖVP. Read last week in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten". It is obvious to all of us that he has failed with his ideas. At the time – I can remember – there was an economic minister named Schüssel, who was always very opposed to these eco-social proposals. They have developed in a different direction – unfortunately. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: On the contrary!]] Then show me an example! We have been talking about resource taxes for years, and we have been talking about, for example, the need to achieve cost-truth in transport. We have the opposite trend everywhere. I would like to look at this, so if you say that the opposite is the case, the specific figures. I can only tell you that, especially in the field of transport, there is no cost truth, we are always away from covering even close to the economic, economic costs – with the current incentive in Austria when it comes to resource taxes, namely the taxation of fuels. When we discuss resource taxes, we must not only collect energy taxes. There are many other areas where the model "taxing resources – labour" could be presented, whether in the field of waste management, in general or in products, or in the field of wastewater schemes. In this respect, the former Minister of Finance Lacina wrote in a government programme many years ago the aim of a wastewater tax. In many other areas it would be possible and there are already models, for example there is a packaging tax in Holland and also in some municipalities in Germany. Overall, the speeches of the government representatives are interchangeable with those of three, four, five years ago. They're relatively unintelligible. They're inconceivable. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny, you're not saying new things either!]] – Mr Novotny! What do you want me to tell you? If you've been telling me for five years, I can't. An example because you say we don't have concrete models: We are the only ones who have drawn up a very concrete law, a very concrete energy tax law, developed to the last detail. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is the theory! You must look at the practice of the economy!]] That's it! The work contract arrangement we have decided today was not theory, it was real practice! You convinced me. So that was and is a practical law. – My Energy Tax Act is ten times more practical than what you decide here today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8371	Mr Mag. Mag has been reported to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8393	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Langthaler! It is in the nature of the fact that you see this double play of environmental tax reform properly once from the side of resources, the ecological side of energy taxation. I join it seamlessly and justify the urgency with the question of labour costs. It is a double mill we are talking about, a double mill in which we should be able to gradually reduce labour costs by outsourcing labour costs, employers' shares in the additional labour costs in Austria. Professor Novotny! Before you make it clear to me: This change in the economy goes a step further than the secondary sector, which can produce lower unit labour costs due to higher productivity. Why To Say You are actually on the question of the tertiary sector in our economy, where real new employment can be created, but where, quite the contrary, we are losing employment, because the level of labour costs – the absolute level of labour costs, the third highest in the European Union – leads to a deviation in demand? – Tertiary service demand is not asked in Austria whether you are now producing services that are provided in the Eastern States or are travelling to other countries because such high labour costs – which is the most important cost factor in the tertiary sector – are not reversible to prices. If you are talking about environmental tax reform, please do not just talk about how it affects energy consumption, but be glad if price elasticity in energy is low, because then you have a more sustainable margin to provide sustainable funding for outsourced forms of additional labour costs. Your argument at the last debate was that you said: The problem is, if I do energy taxes today, less energy will be consumed. If I'm used less energy, I'll have to make even higher taxes. – Today you have told us that the price elasticity to energy is low. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You have misunderstood! It doesn't work!]] – It does not affect whether I need less energy now or just gradually. However, there is a new basis for taxation to outsource additional labour costs, to substitute these additional labour costs in order to reduce labour costs and thus make the tertiary sector competitive again. The medal has two sides. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's why I made a proposal!]] Professor Novotny! They also cited the Danish example, without saying – perhaps the Minister of Finance – that the companies in Denmark can put energy tax as an advance tax, that is to say, they are completely free. In Denmark, the regulation does not affect the steel industry they do not have at all – right! . but this is a clear and clear recharging of the same amount of taxes on a new control object away from the production factor of labour, which, in particular in the non-rationalizing tertiary sector, leads to our being able to offer cost-effective and competitive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] That is the point, and that is why this question is really urgent, because the hat is burning in Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Excuse me if I interrupt you for a moment, you can continue right away. I am also of your opinion that we have been expelled from Paradise. It's true, we've been expelled from Paradise. But do you really believe, Minister of Finance, that we can play "love God" because we have been expelled from Paradise, the replacement-love-God, because we believe we can regulate this society over a sum of regulatory measures and take it into the powers of our citizens in order to regulate digestion as well? - That's your problem! You really believe in being able to regulate this society, the economy and the question of social security by inventing another regulation and another provision, and in the same sentence you complain about bureaucracy! If we have already been expelled from Paradise, then we do not play "love God" but do what we are for as politicians! Let's create a framework! Let's create new markets! In the ecological field too, it is much more sensible to create new markets instead of the sum of regulatory measures – is the same regulatory police that controls them – such as energy certificates. Only the eternal slide of this subject will not bring us anything on the ecological side that Mrs Langthaler has illuminated, nor on the employment policy, especially in the tertiary sector. It was also written to you in the main book: If you're talking about this issue here, you'll always talk from the point of view of the secondary sector. I already know that the secondary sector in Austria has done great things: 68 billion Schilling gross investment. But do you know where these are going? [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: In the microphone!]] Here the capital production factor is used to make even more people unemployed tomorrow. This is why investment is being made, because labour costs are also falling here. In the end, of course, unit labour costs remain the same with increasing productivity, but with fewer employees. You will not be able to stop this process, but You can ease this process if you manage to reduce labour costs – 20 percent reduction in labour costs by outsourcing employers' shares from additional labour costs in a step-by-step process – and to finance them through energy or resource taxes brings you a completely new model, which in total represents the same amount of tax burden, but brings about a structural change that the Greens, too, correctly assess employment policy and to which I also tell you from the tertiary sector that one of the keys is that the tertiary sector can continue to remain competitive in Austria and not lose daily competitiveness. For labour costs in the tertiary sector amount to 30, 40, 50, even 60 percent of the total cost. So any increase in labour costs by 1 percent is an increase in the total cost of this sector by 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6 percent, whatever you want. That's the point. Ladies and gentlemen! The industrial society – I am firmly convinced of it – is at the end of its Latin. It is investing more and more capital to make more and more people unemployed and to exploit more resources. We have a large government ratio, and the financing of this state quota can be done by different bases of assessment. It can be done by work, as it is mostly the case today, or we can have the courage to tax more capital in a European context. The European context is necessary here because, as you say correctly, Mr Finanzminister, the capital is the most mobile production factor. Or we can carry out extra taxation of resources to relieve the production factor of labour. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] You said it yourself: 1995/1996 has made both work and energy more expensive. Only the taxation of capital remained low. As a result, capital will always flow where two things happen: where taxation is low, but also where the costs of combining the two other factors of production are still tolerable. Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about globalisation. I also think that this is not a case, but only a result of an incorrect assessment of the factors of production. Higher taxation – I admit, at least across Europe, but that is why we are in the European Union in order to intervene in a constructive manner – the energy factor is a higher taxation of the transport factor. Only then will you reduce the division of labour without regulatory measures to a reasonable degree, if you afford traffic, which means that you can transport voluminous and heavy, unintelligent products into smaller thin circles as highly technological and smart products. Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not soon understand the urgency of this issue, unemployment in Austria and the employment problem will not only be solved but will continue to be more serious. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8480	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8501	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me add a few comments on the question which I do not feel particularly urgent, and also point out that the devil is very much in detail on this question, which should not, of course, prevent us from developing, so that we can have greater consideration of resource consumption and also energy, including in the tax system. I am sure that Mr Langthaler is wrong if she acts as if nothing had happened. On the contrary! The Minister has also demonstrated this, even if I admit that only a part of it has become ecologically effective or if only a part, especially the money taken, has flowed back into ecological areas. Nor has anyone in the Social Democratic Party or our ministers disputed that this is the case. We have never – and Vrannitzky has never said that – said that we have made an exclusively ecological tax reform. That the devil is in detail, I would like to point to the comments of my previous speaker, Mr Peter, in part to show a bit of a polemic but partly "overwhelming". I cannot imagine – this is now the polemic part, Mr Peter – that it is due to the high labour costs in your industry that the frying soup in the "Golden Deer" costs 120 s. It can't be. That was the polemic, I allow myself! The other thing: If you say that 20 percent reduction in additional wage costs would be desirable, I can say that we have missed that that would be about 100 billion schilling, which then is missing. You can calculate that. Now your conclusion was that we're spending 100 billion on energy taxes. For this I would like a recipe, because, colleague Peter – again a small polemic – it will be that way... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I understood this so that the areas which are being spared a biter, namely the energy-intensive economy, the industrial enterprises, where we have reasonably made the cover, would then have to bear everything to relieve, so to speak, the gastronomy service. This would result in – a pity that Mr Koppler is not here – that the VOESTlers would then work in the hospitality for a short or long time, but no longer in their business. You should think about it all a bit. I myself have a wonderful example at my home in my district, a leading company that has proved to be very successful in environmental protection, today as a factory of world excellence. But the world's peak is so high that it is likely that jobs have already been created elsewhere in the area of plant production, but we have reduced from 4,000 people to 2,800 people. At present, we already have a company consultant at the plant again, because we probably have to pay even more attention for competition reasons. We hold 3,50 S of environmental costs per kilo of fiber, while the famous Scandinavians have environmental costs of 70 sizes and the English have under 10 sizes. In this respect, we are also putting a lot of expectations into the EU, but that will take time for them to follow up. You have to see that here, too. I am also quite excited about the comments made by Mr Schweitzer, who is still speaking after me, perhaps a bit more detailed, with Böhacker I have not been very clear. It was a bit curious, but Mr Schweitzer will only certainly explain the rich experience in the field of ecologizing the tax. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You didn't listen to that!]] Böhacker then spoke a biterl into a vortex on the concrete example. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was too high for you!]] I can now deal with a few aspects. I believe, as I do not agree with my colleagues in the head, that we in Austria have been quite successful with regulatory measures, with regulatory frameworks and that we can discuss whether the eco-social market economy does not also partly have horse feet and staggers. Tag – I am no longer responding to it – Packaging Regulation. So I doubt the eco-social market economy very much. No question, eco-taxes should have steering effects. But this depends on the elasticity of the various sectors. There is no question that industry has already saved a lot of energy in this area. You just have to look at that. Since 1970, the energy input as a function of the gross production value has been reduced by 1 percent. 1 per cent doesn't sound bad, but the gross production value has increased sharply. There won't be much inside either. Where something is inside is logically in the area of living, the private households. But one must say that one wants to burden them and how much they actually do. Col. Langthaler always argues with Denmark. I'm annoyed when this pattern country is mentioned here again and again. You're just trying to figure out what's right. In Denmark, energy taxes are almost entirely remunerated. In Denmark, only households are taxed. The CO2 reduction, as far as they have achieved, is the replacement of imported coal by their own natural gas, which they fortunately have. I'll draw one. Compare Denmark – Austria: From 1990 to 1994, CO2 emissions in Denmark were increased by 18.9 percent, and in Austria they fell by a modest 1.6 percent over the same period. For me, for example, Denmark is an example – you could talk about it – in the area of the high level of waste burning, which is also useful for energy generation. But the Greens really don't want to hear about it. One could also talk about the transport sector. There is certainly something inside if you turn the ratio of fixed costs at variable costs sometime – tag road pricing – there are reasonable measures. Mr Langthaler! - She's not here. – These are concrete concepts. So we have these very well, but we are also trying to see that the concepts that can actually be implemented are the same. Ecotaxes should be ecologically effective. All right! They're supposed to mean we don't have a shift. For example, if I want to counter the greenhouse effect, I can not only introduce a tax on CO2, but also, reasonably, another factor that may be much more effective, and that is methane. There are certain areas, Mr Wabl, where methane is particularly high. And there is no need to talk about taxation alone, but resource consumption also belongs to the soil. I would also like to talk about a tax on the sealing of the non-renewable resource land or, for example, a favorite idea of my colleague Fekter, about the gravel levy that already exists in some countries. That's where I'm quite ready to talk. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to deal with the many devils in detail, which should not, in fact, prevent us from talking about it. Mr Barmüller, for example, has the idea that my previous speakers do not necessarily ask very much, but I will continue to support him and be annoying about using some sort of committee of inquiry. It might be a way of treating this whole range, the whole spectrum, in order to get really reasonable solutions that do not necessarily damage our manufacturing industry and industry. One thing is also clear: The eco-tax with labour cost compensation is of little effect. Of course, she does something to fellow Members Peter. But you know that there is a great deal of discrepancy between labour costs and energy costs in industry. You have to look closely at this: We have nothing to do with making corresponding cuts here and suddenly being a people of hostesses or perhaps speculating on the fact that the greenhouse effect will provide us with a Caribbean climate. [[Abg. May. Peter: My God, dear Doppelmüller!]] All the problems need to be dealt with. I'm also from practice. You see it from the perspective of hospitality, I see it from the point of view of industry. In my district alone, 2 000 jobs have been lost. And you need to talk about it. I don't want to. I still believe that we need yielding, producing plants. Therefore, further development, but with an eye, and the problems also see in such a way that they can be borne by all.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8573	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Schweitzer. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8595	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to know from the Federal Minister how electricity from renewable energy is going on now, whether it is going to be a continuation of the agreement, or as with 1. Next year, the feed-in scheme will actually look like. An answer to these questions would be of great interest to me, Minister of State. I hope you will take the opportunity to give an answer. Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Kopf of the ÖVP gave of itself to the issue of eco-tax was already extremely disillusioning. In addition to exhuming the social market economy, he did not think too much on this issue. If I interpret him correctly, he said: If anything happens at all, then only in the international equinox, and in addition, the EU should do so – well aware that the EU has taken a position on this issue that comforts us on the Sankt Nimmerleinstag. But maybe he just told us the truth quite simply and simply, not like Mr Bartenstein at the time when he was on the 29th. April said: ==References====External links== ==References== He was supported by the bowl and said: This is the turning point in Austrian environmental policy. – I can quote from the press service: ==References== The first stage of eco-tax reform is planned for January 1996, according to the presentation of the designed Environment Minister Bartenstein. At the time, he promised a non-profit model, with reductions in additional labour costs, with a view to increasing job security. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! We've been waiting for this model since 29. ==References== I mean, it's time enough left, now you could finally put it on the table if it was ever meant seriously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The whole thing has been strengthened. The President of the ÖVP, Minister Schüssel, said that the eco-tax reform was the first essential measure to be implemented for him and that it was well prepared by the exciting Molterer – Ditz – Bartenstein axis. – I am still waiting for the implementation of the tax reform of the ÖVP prepared by this exciting Molterer – Ditz – Bartenstein axis! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Come out and tell us where the proposals of this exciting axis have remained and when it will be implemented! Mr Cap von der SPÖ already knew at that time that these proposals do not deserve the name Ecotax, but on the other hand they have announced that SPÖ has an excellent concept and will implement it. The SPÖ would have a socially balanced and targeted eco-tax concept, which would include a reforestation of the entire tax system and also include the subsidy area. Federal Minister! Where is this concept? Let us have this concept! Much better than that: Put this concept into practice! It is high time for something to happen. We heard the announcements. But what is missing to this day is your actions, the actions of the government parties. You have it in your hand to bring something forward. So far, you haven't done anything. Mr Langthaler has indeed put a complete concept on the table, and I am very grateful to her for the fact that there is something to point to. We have managed, in part, to bring to the table a concept capable of being implemented. If you are unable to implement, then take that of the opposition parties, of the Greens, of the Liberals or of the Liberals. We will not be angry with you, Minister, if you do not have your own concepts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is certain that little to nothing has happened from your side. They admitted: The only thing you've introduced in eco tax was to stop the budget hole. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Also!]] You have clearly and clearly stated today that this is the only true thing in history. We are also grateful to you for this. But the current debate is not being held seriously by the government parties, Minister. It is obvious that party policy is in the foreground, because there is no progress, not even solutions. While the government parties are always happy to use the term eco-tax as a advertising tool and especially before elections, if it really is about putting action, then nothing happens. To date, there is no viable result, Mr Minister – that is simply a fact – although, in addition to these proposals made by the opposition parties, there are also countless other proposals and studies that ensure that eco-taxes are not only ecologically, but also economically meaningful and that there is a good social impact, which Mr Novotny always fears. Not only does the Wifo study prove this, but there is also an excellent comprehensive Greenpeace study. Perhaps you haven't read it yet, Minister. I am very happy to make them available to you. Even the national single entrance, as examples in other countries show, it has already been said, does not bring any disturbances. Today, eco-taxes are simply indispensable. Eco-taxes are the market mechanism which guarantees the ordered – that is a quote – withdrawal of total consumption to a sustainable level, Minister. And I think that we as responsible politicians all have to strive for each other. You have repeatedly stressed – in your work agreement, with the signing of the Toronto agreement or with the climate convention – that you want to do so. I ask you, Minister: When will you fulfil your obligations – you have committed yourself, I have shown that on the basis of these examples –? When do you create the market mechanism that really puts the environmental problems at the root of the environment, which guarantees the protection of the environment, which spares us the whole of the cause legislation, which will then be very expensive and will always end up in environmental repair? There are so many benefits that have all been listed, which we can achieve by implementing this system. In the insulation industry alone, 15,000 additional jobs could be created, according to a study. Minister! I think it is worth creating these 15 000 additional jobs. That is why, Minister of State, I also agree to submit a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to say a quote to you and to Mr Novotny: "The energy tax is not to be regarded as a consuming state intervention, but as a correction of a false disposition, which does not take external costs into account." From the study "Ecotaxes: Objections to the objections". I would ask you to really work this out seriously with your colleagues. I am convinced that your objections will be rejected by this study and that we will work together to solve a very, very important problem.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8685	The motion for a resolution, which is sufficiently supported by the Rules of Procedure and which has just been tabled by Mr Schweitzer, will be included in the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8710	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now voted my whole speech on my colleague's head – this one is not there – on my colleague Doppelmüller and on colleague Novotny. And that's not very pleasing, because my concept is now completely implemented. But the Minister of State has at least survived. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pleasure that the Federal Minister is still present at the very urgent question and that two or three Liberals are still here. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very simple discussion, and that is why it is so difficult. Collaborator is right in one – but only in one. Ladies and gentlemen, he is quite right to say that, of course, the benefits of the environmental tax reform, of course, while at the same time reducing additional labour costs, labour costs, as Mr Peter and as they ask the Greens, are being distributed differently across individual industrial sectors. As Doppelmüller says quite correctly, it would then be a problem, for example in VOEST, for example in the heavy industry and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! This is also the reason why the Social Democrats are so massively opposed and why so little progress is being made in this sector. Ladies and gentlemen! We should agree on one thing. If the problem of cost-truth is recognized, that is, that certain costs are not internalized in the price, are not within the energy costs, then we must ask ourselves the question, Minister of State: Who pays those costs that are not in the price? - Is that the state? Are those things that are being postponed? Is that the private budget? Is it the health of the population who suffers? - Anyone has to pay it. We're talking about cost truth. I can recall that the Greens have been massively forced ten years ago to identify cost-truth in the transport and energy sectors, and your predecessor, Mr Streicher, also made such a study at the time and to calculate very, very important data material in connection with energy and transport infrastructure. But if it is now true that there is no cost-effectiveness in the energy sector and in the transport sector, then that means that we have to send this money out of other areas. Economically, then, the argument of the competitive disadvantage does not take place if, at the same time, we return the money we draw from the energy sector to other areas. Of course, this is the problem of uneven distribution – therefore the difficult fight between ÖVP and SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! Here you should decide how to argue. Professor Novotny makes a very simple game. For every speech for five years – actually longer – he always says: Yeah, but no quick shots, not alone. The language system within the coalition has obviously not yet been so far as to have been short-lived here. What do you mean, "fast shot"? Mr Riegler has already proposed an ecological tax reform ten years ago, then the question is: What's a quick shot then? If he has not proposed it, I ask myself what Mr Kopf talks about. The other regime should be defined within social democracy. If the Minister says that this measure was made exclusively if – conditionally, I only say "if", he did not say – if he would say so, the structural adjustment law was specifically intended for budget consolidation, if he is right, ladies and gentlemen, then at the same time the Federal Chancellor cannot come and say in the 1996 Government Declaration – I quote literally: [[Abg. Marizzi: He didn't say!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Don't say it!]] Federal Chancellor Dkfm. Dr. Franz Vrannitzky, he will be known to you, Mr. Marizzi, even if you don't love him –: "At the same time, however, the greening of the tax system must be promoted." [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Will we still do!]] "Energy taxation should include electricity and natural gas." You did that in the Structural Adjustment Act. Ladies and gentlemen! But then, in turn, you should tell your highly valued Professor Novotny that he should not go home here with an argument that may be correct – due to the assessments of economists – that an increase in homeopathic doses is not useful because it has no ecological effect. What is true now – Mr Professor's estimated opinion, Mr Chancellor's statement of government or the non-exclusive claim that budgetary consolidation has not been the sole priority, but also the ecological interest? Ladies and gentlemen! You should use a language system here so that there is more clarity in this context. I know, Mr Lacina, one of your predecessors, here in this House has a massive meaning that this should be done in the international equation. The Liberal Forum has gladly changed its position here – because that was still the argumentation of some representatives of the Liberal Forum at the time – that it is only in the international equinox. I am very pleased that there is now a clear line. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Peter said this today!]] Mr Novotny said that we should finally come out with a proposal and not pass by. He used this beautiful quote with the fur and washing and the like. I am pleased that a professor is making such a good joke, but he should really read our request. I do not want to quote the long beats from Bregenz to Vienna now that the Greens have been beaten for making proposals in the energy tax field, in the petrol price – that was a real Halali from Bregenz to Vienna, which is the greens for idiots. The Greens were the only ones who said that would be cost-effective in the sense of the then Minister of Transport Streicher. At that time, Mr. Cap was shamed in his future workshop, he even spoke of 25 S, Mr. Bruckmann of 27 S at the time, the liberals had spoken of 34 S at all. [[Abg. Marizzi: Petrovic 36 S!]] At the time, there was an environmental speaker outside the group that meant that. So one thing cannot be blamed on the Greens here: that they would not have said bravely here: Yes, we want an increase in energy costs! Ladies and gentlemen! That was clear and clear. The Greens then, because they believe that a quick shot is not good, have submitted an initiative proposal after one. The last one comes from Monika Langthaler and Sascha Van der Bellen – well-founded. All that Mr Novotny refers to is, of course, an assessment, and I already admit that one can see disadvantages if one wants to. But one thing has to be clear, I say: If I have a few words about the fact that there is no cost-effectiveness here, I have to be aware that someone has to pay for it. I can then move, I can slow down, I can then let go of these wonderful sayings: In principle very interesting, in principle we could approach this, but, please, that must be carefully thought out and carefully considered. Unfortunately, colleague Doppelmüller is still there. I beg you, use your eye to see other things in the future. In this question, you have regularly acted blindly and brakefully!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8805	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8827	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, in response to Mr Wabl's remarks, one must also be clearly stated: Each environmental tax reform provides a specific scope for a country in an international context if it is preceded. Taking advantage of this scope of action makes sense. But to believe that, regardless of what is happening in the European field, we are doing something... [[Abg. Wabl: No one believes that!]] Okay, then we'll have an opinion. We of the Liberals believe that we should go ahead here. But we must not go so far as to make sure that the others do not see us anymore, for then they cannot follow us. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the environmental tax reform and the preparations for it are in fact completely asleep is something that the Federal Government has to do with, but which can also be charged to this House – despite the approval of the honourable Member Doppelmüller, which I very much welcome, is that at last there should be a committee of inquiry in the House to consider the effects of an environmental tax reform. We must not overlook the fact that the introduction of the internal market in electricity in the electricity sector will do something and that it is now time to take up that scope of action, also at European level, which was promised to the Austrians, that this scope for action will be perceived once we are fully included in the European Union. It requires, however, that we in Austria become clear about our ideas for an environmental tax reform. Every Federal Minister is also invited to show what he has in his repertoire, which he can imagine for his special place of business. I have missed these answers, Mr Federal Minister, in concrete terms with you today. I am pleased that there is a flat-rate commitment to an environmental tax reform, that the government's documents and, in particular, the National Environmental Plan have written a lot about environmental tax reform, which means that renewable energy sources must also be preferred. But I see with great concern that whenever it comes to concrete, the opposite is made of it. I do not want to leave you here, Mr Federal Minister, because if you say that other measures are also important, then the Liberals will agree with you. If you say that we need to do more in the field of operating systems, which are regulated by the trade regulations, and we must try to finally come into practice, I tell you that we agree with you. But it is only the Liberals who have so far introduced a commercial law here in the House, which has already been assigned to the Committee, but which is interesting, although you say that the subject must be taken up, is not being negotiated. It is not on the agenda of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. There are announcements, but every action remains guilty. Federal Minister! To the resources you have referred to, which are supposed to flow to the countries by means of the Structural Adjustment Act – that has not yet been done – but also to the funds that have flowed from the Mineral Oil Tax to the countries. You know, Minister of State, that the federal states are primarily using these funds for budget renovation and not for the purpose planned – this concerns Upper Austria and also, to a greater extent, Styria. Ladies and gentlemen! It is supposed to be overlooked that when we talk about the performance of the Austrian industry, especially in the field of export success for environmental technology – the Federal Minister has also mentioned it – this would have a very far-reaching position in the international field. However, the fact is that if you look at the seven largest companies in important eco-product areas – the source from which I take this away – is an OECD report, but based on 1992 but I say it hasn't changed substantially since then – then you will find neither in the Water-Treatment-Equipment nor in Waste-Management, nor in air-cleaning or in the eco-services of any Austrian company. This is not the case, the Austrians are far away. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: You won't find that in other industries!]] That is true, Mr Federal Minister, but the example of smoking gas cleaning that you have brought is a real example. The fact is, however, that these developments were very strict, it was a very determined and above all a very consistent policy which was pursued in Austria. It is precisely this effect that we could have if we were finally to make serious about the environmental tax reform. Again: It is important that we ourselves become aware of what is to be the essential cornerstone of an environmental tax reform. All parties expressed ideas in some way, but we never went into the depths and asked: How would it look regionally political? Which sectors would really be burdened? How big is our room? That's something we need to clarify here in the house! Because if it comes out that there will be special effects in certain areas – for example, the raw materials industry – that impact will be concentrated regionally, then we must also offer strategies on how to counter the negative effects of an environmental tax reform. I would like to point out another example. It is clear that there is a lot of talk about the environmental tax reform from the government, even from the government groups, here again and again on the pult, that one has to do something, but in fact the opposite is decided. This is the cover of energy taxes for production companies in connection with the Gas Tax Act. The fact that the cover, which may well be justified by international experience, is that the primary income must be borne by households. We come to the great situation that if, for example, natural gas is used to generate electricity, no natural gas should be taxed on this heated natural gas. But if you uncouple heat from this caloric power plant, which works with a very low efficiency, and thus make something energy-efficient, something ecologically meaningful, then you have to pay once and for that energy part that has been uncoupled, natural gas tax. In other words, you are taxing energy efficiency-enhancing measures. You can read exactly the opposite in the national environmental plan. There is a need to promote combined heat and power, that we should go more and more towards renewable energy sources. What is being presented to Parliament in a meaningful way will not then be done in concrete implementation. Finally, I would like to give you an example. There has been a real boom in the wind power industry since there was a feed-in law in Germany – and I stress that there is not your competence, Mr. Federal Minister, for renewable energy sources. The wind power industry in Germany today has around 15,000 employees, so it has really become an industrial policy option and, with the 15,000 employees, has twice as many as the entire nuclear industry. Austria would be predestined in the biomass field to play a pioneering role internationally. This would mean additional income for farmers, and we would not have been distressed by the Swedish and Scandinavian countries, which are very much in this area, because we have failed to explicitly highlight this area and to recognise it as a real industrial policy option. Finally, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schweitzer. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals can quite agree with it in terms of content. I would also like to remind Mr Schweitzer that the Committee on the Environment already has a motion for a resolution by the Liberals who want and want to have this. We would be very pleased if Mr Schweitzer as the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection would finally take this request from the Liberals on the agenda so that we can finally carry on this issue. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Enjoy!]] Perhaps there is still a request from the liberals today – then maybe it will go a little faster. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8893	For the time being, Mr Magistrate is the last person to speak. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8914	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there has already been a debate here in the House on the introduction of an eco-tax, when many of the Members who are sitting inside here have not yet thought of ever becoming Members and having a debate on this subject. It's been so long. The last tax reform debate or the debate on the tax package was also about the introduction of a non-profit-neutral eco-tax, also set out in the government declaration. The Austrian People's Party has always made a strong contribution to the fact that there can only be a non-profit-making eco-tax. Only you, Mr Finanzminister, have said in knowledge of the budgetary situation that you need this eco-tax to stop budget holes or to meet the convergence criteria of Maastricht. On the other hand, the Minister for the Environment, Bartenstein, said that if an eco-tax is introduced, the proceeds from it should not be used to stop budget holes, but 20 percent of them must be spent on climate protection measures, such as power-heat coupling plants, the promotion of district heating, thermal insulation and the like. Mr Finanzminister! Please tell me what has been done with the 800 million schillings so far, which countries have applied for which countries have received allocations, which investments have been set in motion. I would ask you to answer this question. But it is not only about the eco-tax, it is also about employment policy, and this federal government is currently running an employment policy that is simply miserable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I was in Tyrol at an event of a Citizens' Forum, and there a Tyrolean industrialist was asked to say that 40 new jobs had been created since EU accession. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In Brussels!]] That was embarrassing! Although one knows that a construction company goes into bankruptcy outside of the country, a construction company in Oberland goes into bankruptcy, the Coca-Cola branch in Innsbruck is closed, the cement plant is closed in Eidenberg, it is possible to have an employee say that 40 new jobs have been created. That's embarrassing! You seem to want to continue the misinformation you have practiced during the referendum on Austria's accession to the EU in 1994. The people can't hear it at all, they don't believe it anymore. It is clear that we have a greater need for consolidation, Mr Finanzminister. But you have even announced in the Convergence Programme that you want to make investments from privatisation in the context of an employment offensive. What have you privatized so far? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: VA steel...!]] We have been privatizing CA for five years now. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: VA steel...!]] You can't do that. But what has been invested in job creation from the privatization proceeds so far? - No schilling! We have only lost jobs, we have lost people's wealth, in an order of over 34 billion schilling, which is actually a secret plea. However, it is even more worrying that, because of your financial and tax policy, you have not made it possible for local companies to form equity, so as not to open a bankruptcy procedure at the first winch. We have already achieved the sad number of bankruptcy requests rejected by more than 2 700 because the entrepreneurs are not at all able to form equity. But you are going here and are talking about founding savings, of a founding offensive, knowing that you are introducing a compulsory tax in the form of the corporate tax of 50 000 s. You want to explain to the young entrepreneurs in Austria that this is a founding offensive. You don't believe that any more! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! Furthermore, there is a convergence program, you increase construction performance by enabling rental interest reserves. In the same breath, however, you set the construction model, a model that worked very well, which employed very many small and medium-sized Austrian construction contractors, so that very many employees had a job. You have abolished this support for the construction industry or for the old house renovation with a dash. Mr Finanzminister! With the suspension of the loss premium for 1996 and 1997, they have taken another dangerous step for all project and construction companies. These difficulties arise because the costs of building, founding, financing, property and development for the same project, which occurred in 1994 and 1995, cannot be offset and are therefore unable to pay the tax burden from the exploitation of the property. If it were possible to claim the losses from the project-related losses, much more construction projects could be realized and there would be too much less plea in Austria. But you don't want to hear that at all. They make a tax policy without changing any of the structures. Counting in your budget programme It presents a large number of measures on the part of expenditure, not quantified at all. On the revenue side, however, it has come out quite clearly – and this is also stated in the financial compensation report – that the tax burden for 1996/97 is 150 billion schilling. But you kept saying that the load package only accounts for 100 billion schilling. The load package is much bigger, and the load package is therefore much bigger because you have obviously charged yourself with the effective costs that come on you at the time. But now you want to get out of debt some sluggish paths. Example: motorway vignette. In order to be able to use more than 50 percent of the toll revenue for the refinancing of the ASFINAG debts, the 73 billion schilling in the ASFINAG will be deleted. These do not appear to be in public debt, but the debt exists, the state must pay them. Mr Finanzminister! Furthermore, simply sell the demands on the environmental and water management funds in the order of 73 billion schilling. Good, right and nice. But the debts and liabilities remain. You have not moved anything, you have not changed anything, you have only overcome a burden on the Austrian population, or the workers and the small and medium-sized economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The only thing you have in mind is the thought: Which taxes can I collect, in whatever form? You simply increase the advance payments so that you can increase the convergence criteria until 31. ==References== There were significant tax increases: in income tax, almost 28 percent, in wage tax 7.4 percent, in capital income tax 38 percent, in the price 43 percent. In addition, the suspension of the exemption decisions was suspended. Mr Finanzminister! What are you going to do if they're on the 31st? Are all these things going to end on December 1997? – Tax prepayments go back. The loss talks can be asserted again. The suspension of the exemption decisions has been repealed. They're taxing less revenue. What's next? – "Climate III" load package, in an order of scale, that this load package was a learner.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8998	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Please take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schweitzer and comrades on the implementation of a non-profit-making environmental tax system. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9038	We are now entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades, the Building Committee for Reporting on Amendment 137/A (E) concerning the repeal of the regulation on road progress in the B 146, Ennsnahe Trasse, a period of time until 1. ==References====External links== After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that according to § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Similarly, opinions from members of the Federal Government or from state secretaries should not last longer than 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9065	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some time ago, we made a request for a deadline concerning our request for a regulation on the End-of-the-Day trajectory. You, ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Members of the Socialist Group and of the ÖVP, at that time have argued very blatantly, you finally want to have a solution, you finally want to decide that in this cruel history in the Ennstal, which lasts for 20 years, you want to finally have the beginning of a meaningful variant. Ladies and gentlemen! At that time, Mr Kröll, Mr Kröll, pleaded very strongly for the construction to take place at last. Mrs Buder has also given an opinion on this. But you voted against the deadline request at the time, because you thought something was happening anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! You are in charge of the government, you and your ministers, and you are therefore obliged to make decisions, including in this matter, in a matter which has already exceeded its visibility. You know that very well. Mrs Buder and Mr Kröll spoke at the time - I suppose Mr Maitz will take the floor today - that the conditions in the Innstal valley are unacceptable. But nothing has been done in this matter since then. The only thing that has happened is that the EU has made it clear that, if you adhere to the old variant of the Endinsnah trajectory, EU directives would clearly be violated, EU law would be broken. Ladies and gentlemen! They have long had to learn from the competent authorities, in all legal procedures, that the trail close to the end cannot be built. There have been no decisions, there have been legal proceedings. There have been planning errors, there have been bureaucratic mistakes, there have been predicaments, land owners, farmers have been suppressed, it has simply been passed over laws, in a way that happens rarely in Austria, and you are unable to decide in this causa. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason why we have now put forward this deadline request is simple: A few days ago, the state government in Styria – ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ – decided: The trail close to the end is being built! I think it is a one-time case in our Republic that, although it has been made clear that the trail close to the end is legally unenforceable, not enforceable to the EU, the government nevertheless says: The trail close to the end is being built! Legally or illegally – and I do not say the third word – this obviously does not matter to the rulers in Styria. But I do not assume that this does not matter to the rulings in Austria, the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture. That is why I expect you to see this House, which has decided on this race regulation, meet immediately for discussion in order to discuss this precarious case and speed up a solution in the Innstal. Mrs. Buder! This is an advantage for all those involved, whether they are for Ennstrasse or against it. It must be decided, and it must be done in accordance with the laws. That we are against the Ennsnahe Treasse is known because we do not want a transit snow to be opened in the Endstal. But you have to decide, you have to start the negotiations, and you must not refuse to act in this causa. Mrs Bunder, you can no longer go back to the Ennstal, Mr Maitz, you can no longer return to Styria if you refuse to make a decision here on this important political issue. Do you have the courage, even if you are obviously now taking a counter opinion on what the head of state Krainer then announced, namely a paradigm change in the context of road construction, with transport solutions! Mr. Zweytick! You too will have to decide. It is not possible that you, as an elected representative, as a Member of the Styrian Parliament, refuse to decide on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you, regardless of whether you are in favour of making a decision or not, to submit a report to the House as soon as possible so that this chapter can be written to the end and a reasonable solution can be implemented. Mr Zweytick! You might be holding it for a few weeks. Mr Maitz. You might be holding it for a few months. But you will no longer be able to see yourself in the End Valley if you continue to pursue this kind of policy of head-in-sand-stitch if you do not change this type of policy. Mrs. Buder! I hope that you will agree to this motion for a deadline today, and I hope that this unworthy spectacle will soon end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9128	The next speaker is Mrs Buder. - Please. From now on, the speaking time for each Member is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9150	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Wabl! You said I shouldn't trust myself back in the Ennstal. Yes, I would no longer trust myself in the Innstal, if I did not represent the interests of the Innstal, because 72 percent of the inhabitants of the municipalities affected want the Ennsnah trajectory, which was decreed in 1990. I therefore believe that the Committee on Construction will also consider this to be correct and set its agenda points in the way it deems necessary. They requested a deadline on 23. May, and You demand You're back today, and with us outside, it's always just waiting and waiting. [[Abg. Wabl: If you don't decide here in the House!]] Oh, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Wabl: Where? Why don't you decide?]] The trail close to the end has to be built, now at last! We know that a letter has come from Brussels, and of course we also know that there have been shortcomings in the procedure, but I also know that the necessary constitutional steps are being taken, and I am convinced that these will speak for the end of the line. I also know that Brussels will finally enter into negotiations with the country of Styria, not only with the Directorate-General XI, who is responsible for the environment, but also with the Directorate-General VII, who is responsible for transport and who is involved in the negotiations. If All The country has a good negotiating position for Brussels. I am glad that the Styrian Government is in agreement. You know: The people in the End Valley are already wondering: Why isn't there being further built? [[Abg. Wabl: Illegally built! Retrospectively built!]] The tub of Stainach and the Sallaberg Bridge are already standing, but you always throw me in front of you, that's what stands around the area. Of course this is there, and the people who come by there naturally ask themselves: Why isn't there being built? That's a shield burger! Do we have so many millions that we can throw them out? I do not think so, and therefore we will not agree to this proposal for a deadline today. [[Abg. Wabl: You don't want a decision!]] Yes, the decision will certainly be made. [[Abg. Wabl: Who is in Styria on the government?]] The decision was made in 1990 when the track was ordered. That's what Federal Minister Schüssel ordered at the time. It has been waited a very long time. Mr Wabl! I don't want anyone to lose a loved one of the family due to a traffic accident. We had dead again on the B 146 this year, terrible accidents. [[Abg. Wabl: Who's in the government in Styria? The greens, maybe?]] I can tell you something: When the highway was built from Treglwang to Liezen, we had 15 deaths each year. Now it's three – still around each and every one too much. I think that a safe road with fewer branches is also less dangerous and dangerous. These terrible accidents, which happen again and again, are to be stopped! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am sure that the Styrian Government will also do its thing right in Brussels. You shouldn't put up quails with traffic kills. That would certainly be the wrong way. I am also for nature and I know the "red meadows" that are protected. For all who don't know them: That's her! [[The speaker holds a large color photography, which shows green and arable land.]] Such meadows we have God thanks to several in the Styria – even in the End Valley. [[Abg. Wabl: About the Laws! About the farmers!]] No, no, no, But this ordered route is to be built! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: About the Laws! About the farmers!]] [[Further calls and calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You know, in our district, there is a high rate of unemployment, and many people have to commute. They should get to work well and also return to their families. That is why I am in favour of the B 146, for the construction of the Ennsnahen Treasse! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9304	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maitz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9326	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl has not correctly quoted the decision of the State Government. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What does he actually quote?]] This decision, which was taken before the summer, means that, in the event of all legal conditions, the state government is acting unilaterally for the construction of the Ennsnaher Tresse. The 1990 economic minister's regulation was and thus remains the best solution to the problem for the people concerned and the environment concerned. Some open questions have been raised. If you, my colleague, Langthaler, put me before the choice to protect either young and old, children and parents – at present threatened by the traffic addicts – or the quail king on 25 hectares, then I am for the people, the boys, the old, the children and the parents who risk their lives there on this road! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Wabl and Ing. Langthaler.]] Two open questions were raised by Mr Wabl, first of all by the water law notice, which was submitted to the Ministry for Review and was adequately and conscientiously reviewed. In the next few days, the decision is to be expected, and we will respect this decision because we respect the rule of law. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] If you laugh at the word "law", that's your problem. Secondly, The nature protection notice expires at the end of October 1996, but I also believe that the recommendation given by the study of the World Birth Life Found Austria on the Greens to the EU can be extended, without any legal objection. This study, on which the Greens rely, would – you hear and marvel – the entire Styrian Innstal, political district of Liezen, between 13 and 14. Grade east of Greenwich on an area of 24 000 hectares, sea height 620 to 740 meters, under EU protection. This would mean that there would be no need to stop all the management, pack up and lock the tourist region and we could not build any buildings there. The EU opinion ends with the following sentence: "In spite of this study, there is currently "no sufficient material basis for underprotection under the EU Directives" - says Habitat Directive and EU Bird Protection Directive. At the moment – if the two legal proceedings are legally concluded, and this will be the case in the next few days – the country of Styria has created all the conditions for the construction of this route, which was prescribed in 1990. My previous speaker has already said that this five-communities trajectory was supported in a popular survey in the autumn of 1994 between - I am saying exactly - 65.1 and 93.6 percent. The alternative would have been the ongoing expansion that you know very well, Mr Wabl, and which your group has also represented. However, this was clearly rejected from two thirds to 93.6% of the population. We are still standing at this point. There is no other variant – after the 18 that has already been discussed in great detail – than to end this infinite history legally with the construction of the Enns nighen track.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9398	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9420	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to correct Mr Wabl's comment, which has claimed that the vote in the Styrian Government would have been unanimous. – I am right in saying that Mr Landesrat Dipl.-Ing. In my opinion, it is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take a decision on this matter. He has last rejected the request of SP Councillor Ressel, who pleaded for rapid construction even without legal notice. – In so far, Mr. Wabl, you have been misinformed. I think that is clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, we welcome this proposal for a deadline, for the reason that it will at last go a little further in this endless story with hundreds of deaths, millions of damage and a huge burden on the population in this section of the road. It must also finally go a little further, because the policy in this area has so far clearly failed. This proposal for a time limit will at least cause one thing: at last the discussion in this field will be continued, there will finally have to be a decision and the road may be built if the procedures are all dealt with in accordance with the law. In the version we prefer, at least the most heavily burdened areas in the area of Stainach would be equipped with corresponding local routes, so that the most severe burden on the population there is fixed once. I believe that we must finally come to this solution. There have already been several national leaders and perhaps also a country's chief there "remained on the track". I hope that this Green request will lead to the end of this endless story! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9462	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bunder! I believe that it is so simple to say that only those who are close to the end of the trail stand for human protection, and those who are against the trail near the end, it is indifferent whether there are people who die or not. This is a dimension that this debate about the Endensnah trajectory is unlikely to satisfy. As one of the representatives of the region, you know that the Sallaberg Bridge has been built mainly because of the fact that approvals have not expired so that something has quickly been put up so that we could say: We have already started – although many approvals have not yet been there. This applies in particular to water permits. On the other hand, Mr Maitz said: Well, the rule of law is important!, then I give it completely right: The rule of law is important! But then I wonder why one has already begun to build without approvals, for example without a water permit. If the rule of law is important, Mr deputies – and I agree with you – then one should consistently say: As long as the permits are not there, we will not begin. You see it in the case of Lambach: Although the appeal to the Administrative Court did not have a suspensive effect, the construction started with the actual problem. Ladies and gentlemen! I also agree with those who say that we need a less dangerous road in the Endstal. That's right. But you also know, ladies and gentlemen, that those plans for the Ennsnahe Tresse, which have been made at the beginning, have been changed on a number of occasions. The road has been reduced in its priority. The branches that are planned there are no safer than what we have at present because of the lack of acceleration tracks. In particular, it must be taken into account that the situation at the end of the century is mainly a problem because the spatial planning is simply not strictly respected there. This is something that must be kept before the mayors in this area, because first of all the traffic through the towns has gone directly – a state today unthinkable and unsustainable. Then they moved the traffic out. But then they said: Wonderful! Now there is a new construction land, now we can rebuild everything again!, with the final effect that today one has built what was thought of as a burden of traffic and says again: In fact, the whole thing has to be relocated again, because the people there have to be relieved. It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that the planning of the Ennsnah track, which is now in place, is not at all taken into account in the development of the railway, although, as you know, the railway has to be extended twice by the Enns Valley. Although there are considerations about this, there are very concrete ideas about it. That has already been discussed. The fact is, however, that what is to be implemented is planned without the expansion of the railways. All this, ladies and gentlemen, makes it necessary to review this project. It is also justified to demand that the race regulation be repealed. This is the aim of the Greens' request for it today. It cannot be wrong to make a deadline for this request. On the contrary: It is wrong that applications should be submitted here in Parliament and allocated to the Committee and then left alone, that they should no longer be taken care of. I know that the new Rules of Procedure will change that. The fact is, however, that it is a good game to simply "fine" the opposition's requests in the Committee. But this is something you cannot do with the consent of the Liberals. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals will agree to this request for a deadline for the Greens. We believe that this matter should be very clearly decided in the National Council so that everyone knows what one stands for – and that would be better today than tomorrow. - Goodbye!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9527	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9548	Ladies and gentlemen - especially to the SPÖ and the ÖVP! You stand here every time you make this deadline request – because that's not the first one – as if you had to decide on the route for which you are. Firstly, I would like to remind you that it is a matter of making a decision at all. I can only interpret your arguments in such a way that you obviously fear any kind of decision, which is not surprising if you look at the story: Only in the Styrian Landtag was Your previous line is a single zigzag line! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: State government!]] Mr Maitz. If you quote the decisions of the Land Day here if we begin to quote the decisions of the Land Day or the Land Government, then we would sit here tonight to 10 and read to each other the decisions of the Land Government and probably wonder what they have already said and decided on. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Only the last one!]] We are only concerned that you are dealing with an application we have tabled and that you decide. If you think that this route guide is so good, then please decide, please vote against our request. Have the courage to do that! But you don't have that courage. And with good reason, you do not have the courage to do so, because I tell you – including my colleague, Mrs Buder, who is negligent and what negligent transport policy is: what you have been doing for 20 years, by simply doing what you want to do without looking for a long time, without asking for space planning, for other people, for the rule of law or for the conditions that have been created to regulate road construction. Because that's exactly how you did it in the Endstal. They just put a fact and let a road drive thousands of cars every day. And then get out of here and say, It now stands the watchman king against the lives of people. – That’s not the question! It's about your transport policy that you've operated for ten or 20 years. That's why it's here. She's on the test stand here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: They've prevented you for 20 years!]] You've been sleeping on the question of the Ennsnahen Treasse. You didn't do anything at all. You thought you could just sit down and let things run like that, and sometime the population will be in the truest sense of the word soft from this autolawin and will agree with what you planned a long time ago. But in the meantime the conditions have changed, and you will have to note that the conditions have changed and that today the population no longer wants to take your concrete will just the way you have lived out the longest time. [[Abg. Steibl: This is a fool!]] I'll tell you something. The plans for the close-to-earth expansion are ready in the drawer. Why don't you go on it and put it into practice? Why don't you make the trips that have been planned for a long time? But don't stand out here and pretend there's only one alternative! Mrs. Buder! Because visitors, as you say, wonder about the nonsense you have put in the landscape in recent years, I must tell you: They have had long enough time to correct that accordingly – I emphasize: accordingly, and quite for the benefit of the population there. But you believe that you can simply continue with your transport policy and with what you have done in recent years. But that's not going to happen. Even if you vote against our request, you will certainly be presented – I am sure that I am – sometime also this account, because people have become sensitive today. You know very well that there are alternatives, especially in transport policy, and that you cannot simply wipe them out of the table just because you decided ten years ago or at some point, that is exactly where this path has to go. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: 18 variants! You have polemized against these applications for 20 years!]] They have not been concerned about the national legal basis all these years. You have thought that you can overcome the fact that you need a water law ruling. And now you think you can just go beyond the fact that there is an EU directive, you can just make that ridiculous, you can figure out here and say: Oh, my God! If you took this seriously! If you had taken a lot more seriously in recent years than you have done, we would not have to debate time-limits here. Again: It is about your decision! Decide! That's the only thing we want! If you are so much for this route, then vote on it, then decide! Please take our request and we will discuss it here and decide! In any case, that would be more useful than the hiding game you're performing here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9653	The debate is closed. I shall now vote on the request. – Please continue the newspaper distribution actions after the vote! We shall vote on the request, the Building Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 137/A (E) by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades, on the abolition of the regulation on the road path of B 146, Ennsnahe Trasse, a period of time until 1. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application has been rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9693	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 1 to 4 of the agenda on Amendments Nos 289/A, 284/A, 287/A and 292/A (E). Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9717	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have yet to speak on the work contracts, because Mrs Hostasch has literally introduced two amendments and a resolution here in plenary during the last minute. Mrs. Colleague! I have considered these two amendments and the motion for a resolution. I would like to comment briefly on these matters and also to express our voting attitude. Mrs Colleague, the amendment which concerns the cases of hardship, which have been caused by the increase in the age limit for men in early retirement due to reduced working capacity or incapacity to work, and also by the fact that the change in the concept of income in the unemployment insurance law has resulted in structural adjustment, we will give our assent. We believe that those who have trusted that they can retire as unemployed persons at 55 years of age do not have to wait until they are 57 years of age. The same applies, according to our group, to emergency workers under the unemployment insurance law, to those who, on account of one prior to the 1. Social plans concluded in May 1995 provide this emergency aid. We must ensure that the confidence of these people in politics is not shaken so much. Mrs Hostasch, in your amendment, we are talking about so-called mercies of grace in connection with emergency workers. The expression "Gnadenpension", Mrs. Colleague, is probably a bit harsh. If someone from our group would use such an expression, we would be accused of being contemptuous. A bread of grace may be given to an old horse, but with an emergency aid worker, this expression is quite true! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This group of people, Mrs Hostasch, does not have to expect a pension from God's graces, but he has prepared a pension. With regard to the further amendment to the contract scheme, that, in the event of a change in the circumstances, the application must be notified immediately from the beginning of the month in which the amount is to be waived in accordance with § 5a para. 1 on average of the calendar months of each calendar year is exceeded, has to be done – I must say: If you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, read it carefully, you will notice that this is simply not possible. It's just not possible that someone when he was on 20th. It should be noted that a change in the circumstances has occurred immediately from the beginning of the month in which this is to occur. That's a thing of impossibility when someone's on 20th. ==References====External links== I'm supposed to report on October. It's just not feasible. That's the next Murks you're producing in this entire factory contract wall. It's just not reparable. It has often been told to you that the contract regulations as they have been since 1. It is easy to delete on July. The measures you take in relation to apprentices, where apprentices are reduced by one and a half percent for the duration of the first academic year of the general social security contribution, which is only half a solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Once you have to consider real measures, yes, a reform of apprenticeship training at all. The withdrawal of the municipal tax on the compensation of apprentices, the withdrawal of social security contributions for apprentices, i.e. the contribution of the service provider and employee, and the possibility of co-insurance with parents, as is the case with the pupils – all these are measures that you can consider. You have to consider a reorganisation of apprenticeship training at all, and you also need to reconsider the Youth Employment Act. It is not possible for a person to learn the profession of painters if he does not go up to the second year of teaching. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Someone cannot learn the profession of waiter if he has to stop during summertime at 9 o'clock. It's just not possible! It must not be so that a carpenter's apprentice may not put the machines into operation. And someone can't be a baker if he can't start at 4:00 in the morning. You need to break your head about all of this, then we can talk here. The motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, in which the Federal Government is asked to draw up, with the help of the social partners and experts within the framework of a working group, the further development of the Austrian social security system with a view to a broad and fair involvement of all incomes and a uniform social security scheme by the end of 1997, would, of course, be all right if this were not to be an inbreeding, a breeding of those who have not yet done anything. Step back, give up the government to write You're making new elections! - We like to take over the government.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9804	As the last speaker, Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9831	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hostasch is – and I do not need to be a social spokesperson in order to find out – behind and in front of a coup. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can see this with a free eye, no matter which speaker you are. We are only right if the persons concerned really get the promised pensions. But if, of course, you take the opportunity here, if you already have the ASVG in your hand, you also have to bring in an amendment concerning the steel pensioners, I have to say: You could have considered this a little earlier, and you could have solved it more elegantly! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] The pressure is, of course, great after the start of your EU election campaign had almost fallen into the water – not only because of the bad weather at that time, but above all because of the announced protests, just those steelpensionists who have felt betrayed for your promise that you once made. And since you do not, of course, want your election results to fall completely into the basement in this region, now take this opportunity. Okay, but there's a horuck and a punch action, even if it serves and is just. We shall, however, vote in favour of the request. I think it is very good to point out once again on this occasion that perhaps you would have more allies here in the House, with the other political groups, if such things did not break into the last speaker in the last minute before the vote, but if perhaps you had already announced that you were planning this or that. The fact is that this is apparently a coalition business. On the one hand, the SPÖ receives what it needs and what it wants, namely that the election promise to the steel pensioners is fulfilled, and on the other hand, the exchange business for the ÖVP seems to be that these contract regulations of the apprentices' funds are being deleted and therefore clearly met those who – probably with the ÖVP, for it is their clients – probably have lamented because of this fund. The only question is whether you will meet the target. Because now instead of saying the apprenticeship fund: 1.5 percent of the insurance contributions, which is a really weak thing, I can only tell you. This shows how little you take the situation seriously, especially in view of the latest reports on unemployment among young people who are unable to find apprenticeships. These reports confirm that this is a very, very urgent problem. But they go here and eliminate the only good approach in this whole brushwork of the contract scheme, namely the creation of an apprenticeship fund. In fact, we were already excited about the appropriate measures you want to take. I don't know if it's for or against Its policy is to remove this fund, but it does not, in any case, address the concerns of young people who are on the streets. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is deplorable that you take as little of a matter as important as youth unemployment as you do not take it so seriously, and that – as hesitantly as you have done – you delete this fund, which you have proposed here, and announce it all in the last word just before a vote. In any case, we will not agree to this amendment, but we will be very pleased with the request concerning the steel pensioners. But it certainly remains the impression among the coalition parties that they have acted in a way here in the whole matter – many speakers have already said before me, one can only stress it once more – in the matter of works contracts that characterize their government style, namely very, very sloppy and very, very unthinkable.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9903	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur clearly waives a final word. We are now coming to a number of votes and I therefore ask you to take the places. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the General Social Security Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 325 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have power to do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary and amending proposal. Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. The Hostasch, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an amendment and an additional request. In addition, Members Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an amendment and an additional request. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the applications in numerical order and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The honourable Members Hostasch, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Articles l Z 9, 14 and 17 § 566 para. 1 C. 1 And I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to him for a corresponding sign. This amendment was adopted by a majority. The Hostasch, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an additional proposal which contains the inclusion of a Z 12a in Article I. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request, may declare this by a corresponding sign. The additional request was adopted by a majority. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have submitted an additional request to include a new Z 14a in Article I. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This additional request is therefore rejected. The Members of Parliament, Dr Pumberger and Comrades, have tabled an additional proposal which refers to Article I and which contains the inclusion of new Z 14b and 16b. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request, may make this known by a sign. – Even this supplementary request has not found a majority, it has been rejected. Members Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and comrades have requested the inclusion of a Z 15a in Article I. Whoever is for it may give a sign of promise. This request was adopted by a majority. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Head and comrades a amendment concerning Article I Z 17 § 566 para. 1 Z 2 of the draft law. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This amendment is rejected. I leave immediately on Article I Z 17 § 566 para. 1 Z 2 as part of the Committee's report, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This part of the law has been adopted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Pumberger and Comrades have submitted an additional request to insert a Z 3 in Article I, Section 566, para. 1 to the content. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request may give a sign of faith. – This is the minority. This additional request is rejected. In addition, MEPs Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and comrades have an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 3 in Article I, Section 566, para. 1 introduced. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request for a positive sign. - That's the majority. This additional request was adopted by a majority. The Hostasch, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article II Z 2, Article III Z 1 and Article IV Z 1. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of confirmation. This amendment was adopted by a majority. In addition, Members Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 2a in Article II, a Z 1a in Articles III and Z 3 and 4 in Article VI. Those ladies and gentlemen who are for this, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This supplementary request has been accepted by the majority. Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades also tabled an amendment which refers to Articles II Z3 and III Z2. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. This amendment has been accepted by the majority. Finally, I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Hostasch, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades on the development of social security. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an appropriate sign. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by a majority. (E 24.) We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 326 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. – This report has been adopted by a large majority. We shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 327 of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. This report has been adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 328 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. . This report has been taken note of by a majority. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (318 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Labour Constitution Act, the Labour and Social Court Act and the Federal Act on the Post Operating Constitution (329 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (89 of the Supplements): Convention (No. 173) on the protection of workers' claims in the event of their employer's inability to pay, together with a declaration; Recommendation (No. 180) on the protection of workers' claims in the event of their employer's inability to pay (330 of the supplements) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (201 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Federal Act concerning supplementary provisions for the application of Regulations (EEC) in the field of social security (331 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10117	We now come to points 5 to 7 of today's agenda, on which the debate is being held in one. These are the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government templates. (318 of the supplements): Federal Act amending the Labour Constitution Act, the Labour and Social Court Act and the Federal Act on the Post Operating Constitution (329 of the Supplements), (89 of the supplements): Convention (No. 173) on the protection of workers' claims in the event of their employer's inability to pay, together with a declaration; Recommendation (No. 180) on the protection of workers' claims in the event of their employer's inability to pay (330 of the supplements); and (201 of the supplements): The Federal Act amending the Federal Act concerning supplementary provisions for the application of Regulations (EEC) in the field of social security (331 of the Supplements). The rapporteur on item 5 is Mrs Dr Pittermann. – There is no oral reporting. This applies to all three points. We are now going into the agenda. As the first speaker, Mr Nürnberger spoke. - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10159	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly make a few comments on the amendment of the Constitutional Labour Act and on its most important point, the introduction of European Works Councils. Since the early 1970s, the Member States of the European Union have been discussing Euro Works Councils and could only agree on a common directive in 1994. Now – two years later – it enters into force and is transposed into national law by individual countries. Belgium, Finland, Sweden, Ireland, Germany and Denmark have already done this, and today we are called upon to create these legal conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! After all, some 30 Austrian large companies and the 200 branches of foreign companies will be affected. The long, partly tough negotiations show very well how far we are from a social Europe, from a common Europe of workers, how the realization is moving forward. Nevertheless, this directive 94/45 on the establishment of a European Works Council is another small step in the right direction, a step that was urgently needed not least in times of increasing globalisation and cross-border multis. The best example here is certainly Semperit-Traiskirchen. What is going on here is how irresponsibly the management of the German group, despite record profits and megadividing, deals with jobs, how brutally it plays out the individual locations against each other, shows very well that there is only one counter-strategy for this: the international cooperation of workers. Firstly, of course, the works councils are required. You need to learn not only to think about your own location. They must recognize that they are part of a larger European whole, where it does not help to pull the head in and be glad that it has not caught one but the other, for tomorrow one could be on the line. There is certainly a need for a new culture for cooperation, both between works councils and between social partners at group level. At Conti, the works councils seem to have already understood this. The Europe Forum of Works Councils has adopted a resolution at its recent European meeting in which the Works Councils from all over Europe warn the Executive Board of the high risk of foreign activities. They express their concern about enterprise policy, which is aimed at producing at the expense of most European sites worldwide in countries with low labour costs. That is exactly what Euro Works Councils are for: solidarity in the sense of all European workers. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the present EU directive is far from sufficient and that many things are still ahead of us, we really want to realize the European social and social model with all its basic social values and thus create a humane balance to the internal market model. There is no doubt that the law of consultation and information for workers is an important social policy progress and the success of the European trade union movement, which has put great pressure on it in recent years. However, the logical consequence can only be that European Works Councils will also be granted co-determination rights. This is particularly important for long-term strategic Group decisions. The fact that Euro Works Councils are accepted is evidenced by the large number of voluntary agreements already made. In France, for example, has already installed such a forum, such a works council, every fifth company subject to EU directives. Europe-wide, the EU is estimated to have more than 200 companies today, including more than 100 in the metal industry alone. That is one sixth of all the undertakings in question. A total of 12 million workers will benefit from Euro Works Councils in the near future. It will be up to the works councils and their trade unions to work for the benefit of workers in Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10213	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10235	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today – after a fairly long discussion – we decide to take a step into a new country, into a new country that represents an answer to a challenge. The challenge is that over the last few years, even decades, more and more companies have joined together, more and more mergers have taken place, no barriers to borders, more and more undertakings have been taken over by other companies that are located in other countries, joint ventures. In other words, we have to deal with cross-border structures in the field of economic life. The question now was: How can we find an answer to this development, which has become a matter of course in economic and financial life, so that those who, as employees, are affected by such decisions by cross-border undertakings or corporate structures, do not fall under the wheels? – That was the question that was the starting point to be able to meet this challenge. We know – and my previous speaker also stressed it – that years have now been discussed, and especially in Austria we can look back on a tradition, namely a tradition that has been tried by one partner in the field of work and economics in these past decades. And what has been referred to as a social partnership or economic partnership, depending on which side it is considered, is something that these interests have taken into account. What we decide today and what is a directive of the European Union is the European response to this challenge. We know that it is only one step that it is a stage of development, but I believe that a Europeanisation of economic and financial decisions can only be accompanied by a Europeanisation of co-operation between workers, otherwise what we call social partnership, co-operation, successful-negotiations, at the greater level, at the European level is not present. I am convinced that today's decision can indeed achieve this objective of setting up European works councils in these larger, cross-border companies or, as an alternative, at least this consultation to ensure this information for workers. Without a doubt, we know what the better solution is given, since the hearing alone does not, of course, allow for the level of cooperation which represents the objective of a partnership. We need to know that in Austria about 30 such larger enterprises are affected, namely those involving a total of more than 1 000 workers, with at least 150 workers in two Member States. I believe that this will create a model that makes sense to find positive partnership solutions at European level too. In this sense, we say yes to the People's Party – and I believe it is true that all those who are committed to a partnership model of economic and social life – and hope that these new regulations will also create a positive relationship between workers and employers and their representatives.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10283	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. – You have indicated a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10313	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of the globalisation of the economy, it is certainly necessary for the groups to implement the establishment of a European Works Council in order to ensure a certain consultation, a certain co-determination of employee representation. I believe, however, that it will be necessary, above all, to bring about a rethinking of the managers who are at the top of the economy, in order to make it clear to them that infrastructure – transport routes, educational institutions, social institutions – can not only be claimed in the advanced European countries, but in low-cost countries with child labour and with the cheapest wages. How long can this be in the final effect is only a matter of time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have some criticisms on this government template, as far as the collective agreement is concerned. In a passage, namely in point 2 of Article I. 1 is the first sentence: "The declaration of a collective agreement on the Statute must be made known in the "Amtsblatt zum Wiener Zeitung"." Ladies and gentlemen! This means a limitation to a statement in the "Amtsblatt zur Wiener Zeitung". It is no longer necessary to announce the complete modification of the collective agreements, not the entire content, but only this change. If you know how this is in collective contracts, how you get a collective contract at all, I am surprised, because a collective contract for employees only receives someone as a trade union member in the sector concerned, the service provider receives it from his representative, i.e. free of charge from the Chamber of Commerce, and now this is limited to a statement in the "Official Journal to the Vienna newspaper" by amending the Constitutional Labour Act instead of publishing the statutes in full text. For me, this is simply incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, because this would make it very difficult for workers affected by such an extension of the scope of a collective contract to access to the text of the collective agreement. I therefore call on all my colleagues to work to ensure that every employee is informed of his legal representation of interests, that the Chamber of Labour, which receives the collective agreement in question free of charge on request, should also be published publicly, as is the custom of a law to allow access to and transparency of collective agreements, even for non-branched persons. In times when flexible working hours are discussed, accessibility would not only be desirable, but would also be necessary to enable job seekers who want to change the industry to be informed about the collective agreement they consider appropriate. Mrs. Hostasch! For you, as chairman of the Federal Chamber of Labour, this would be seen as an incentive. The free movement of workers will certainly make a request for this at the plenary session of the Chamber of Labour. Consider what I have said about the flexibility and accessibility of collective agreements. It would only serve the self-employed. I am now tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voices You must accept this amendment by the Freeman! It serves the transparency and accessibility of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10416	The just-readed amendment is supported by business rules and is included in the negotiations. Mr Dr Kier spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10440	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, the technical aspects of the present matter, in particular the Federal Act which amends the Labour Constitution Act and the Federal Act on the Post-Business Constitution, also simplified the Post-Business Constitution Act, have already been presented many times, and there has also been a discussion in the Committee on Employment. I would like to point out that the macabre situation is that we will experience within the framework of the European Works Councils that the democratic deficit which exists in Austria will now become particularly visible, because we will experience it within the framework of this works council structure, that we will encounter works councils in the relevant international companies, which, even if they were not citizens of the respective country, were passively eligible for election, whereas the works councils coming from the Austrian scene will not carry this element. We will therefore be made manifest at European level once again that we have lower democratic standards. This may be noted – in all the positive aspects contained in this law. Something is particularly important to me, and I would like to make this very clear and maintain it: We're changing three laws here. We are innovation the Labour Constitution Act – as far as it is, as well – we are innovation the Labour and Social Courts Act – in order, and we are innovation the Post-Business Constitution Act. Now it may be interesting that we recall that this post-business constitution law in the BGBl. No. ==References====External links== That means: A law that we've just created, we're already innovation again. It could now be said that this can happen, because it is an international harmonisation, and it is also more concerned with a law, but it may also be a young law. But – and this is what was written in the main book to colleagues, particularly by the government parties – this post-business constitution law is one on and on and on as such superfluous law. [[Complementary of the Abg. Meisinger and oillinger.]] It was created in order to be able to ultimately apply the rules of the Labour Constitution Act within the framework of the distributed item. That was the most complicated way to choose. It was also widely written out from the Labour Constitution Act, with the result that in the field of distributed mail we have now created a new concept of service and that in all the novelties that we will have to make in the future, we will have to stand in the title of law constantly. There was complete agreement in the Committee on this, and the Federal Minister for Social Affairs was able to understand that this was a problem, but the Post-Business Constitution Act came from the spring of the Minister of Transport and was at the time simply presented as a government proposal. And instead of at least taking advantage of this opportunity to merge these two laws, in the next few years we will always have to innovation the Constitutional Labour Act and the Post-Business Constitutional Act, which, I would like to say again, are almost word-identical, in a parallel action. This is a very classic case of a law that could be abolished without touching its regulatory content by writing it a paragraph more into the labour constitution law. It would be a contribution to curtailing the flood of law. This would, I understand, be a mistake of beauty from the viewpoint of the government parties, since they would have to abolish a law they had just passed. "Entrepreneurship" is more likely to mean the cleaning of an outdated legal system. However, the regulatory area is not out of date, but this matter has only been handled in a completely false and superfluous form. It was a need for me to take advantage of the opportunity to say this in the context of this debate. And every time such a parallel action is again in the house and we have a longer title in the law, where, in addition to the Labour Constitution Act, the Post-Business Constitution Act will also stand, I will mention this, for so long, until these two laws are merged. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Right. And I mean, there would be a merger of laws, but I fear that this will fail in the bureaucracy of the houses – perhaps less on the will of the members of the government than on the fact that the individual legitimate departments of the affected houses cannot prove their own necessity if they do not produce their own laws. In this case, there was now an opportunity to point this out. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10509	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10530	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now, at this hour, spare you that I will tell you the history of suffering of the formation of the European Works Councils, the chronology of events, how many years it took until after long begging and beggaring – otherwise it cannot be referred to – the formation of European Works Councils could finally be enforced. But at what price? The price is still available: The European Works Councils have hearing and information rights, Mr Koppler. [[Abg. Koppler: First step!]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] First step, you say. But you know that this is the last step for a long time. [[Abg. Koppler: I hope not!]] We'll wait decades again until we get beyond this stage. You know what it means to obtain only hearing and information rights that are still relatively inaccurately defined. I think it is nevertheless a first step, a very, very modest step. But what is annoying me at this first small, modest step is that he becomes really unattractive by this original sin that we carry in with the passive right to vote. It is almost unfortunate that the following situation is possible at European level: For a group consisting, for example, of German and Austrian branches, an Austrian works council can participate from the German side – and there are a number of such Austrian works councils in Germany – because it has the passive right to vote there, but from the Austrian side no Turkish works council is allowed to participate. From the German side, not only an Austrian can participate, but also a Turkish, from the Austrian side, a German may participate if there is one, but a Turkish may not participate. - That's pathetic. It must be pointed out, and it is clear, that it is not possible that, if we are trying to regulate, as it were, the large European Works Council question at least in a first step, to re-sign the small-carrying Europe that can only be made up of the 15 Member States and in which the citizens who are outside this Europe of the EU have nothing to say – at least not in the sense that they are allowed to candidate themselves. – That is really pitiful – to say it again – and does not do well in the long run. Someone who has signed a number of international treaties outside the EU could come to the idea and actually ask whether this law is legitimised in this respect and whether we really respect the international treaties as they would be necessary on this issue. I don't need to tell a secret; everyone knows we don't keep it. Complaint legitimation in international treaties is the problem. Anyone who deals with this knows that Austria violates its international treaties on this issue, but only colleague Koppler could complain: the ÖGB – that is not you, I know – the Chamber of Workers or any other representative of interest. After they don't do it because they think it's right themselves or at least not quite that wrong, nothing else will happen. – This is to be said on this chapter of the European Works Councils and on the really pitiful regime in relation to passive voting rights. I would like to stress once again what Mr Kier said in relation to the postal constitution law, because the announcement of our Minister at the Committee meeting did not reassure me very much, namely that the abolition of the Post-Business Constitution Act and its integration into the Labour Constitution Act will be a long-term one. This long-term redemption, which he has announced to us, is more likely to be a threat. I would ask him to turn this long-term orientation, especially in view of the term of office of ministers and the term of office that we have here in the House, into a short-term one, so that we can at least remember during this legislative period that we once passed a law that we should not have decided, because it is much easier to regulate in the Constitutional Labour Act. If there is still a draft in this legislative period, perhaps we will also be able to reach agreement on this issue. In any case, our willingness to do so exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10586	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. Voluntary speaking time: Six minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10629	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Before I make my statement on the European Works Council, allow me to speak very briefly on the first item in our agenda today, namely the problem of steel pensioners. I would like to thank, on behalf of the steel pensioners, all those who have helped to regulate the problem of the steel pensioners. Above all, I would like to thank the Federal Minister and his officials very much for the fact that we have come to a solution. A warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Labour Constitution Act, as I believe, sets another milestone in the history of labour law. Given the concentration of the economy in large economic areas, cross-border co-determination is gaining importance. The current situation at Semperit – she has already been addressed today – clearly shows how important contemporary information and the involvement of the works councils would have been. However, the importance of co-determination also becomes very clear in many daily discussions and discussions. The last wage and salary closure achieved by the metal workers and the trade union for private workers has caused many - as I believe - to make absolutely unexplainable statements, to constant threats, to increase in wages and salaries, to outsource jobs in cheap countries. In my opinion, this is a shameless way in which income and social dumping is being carried out on the back of workers. This trend, ladies and gentlemen, underlines the need to ensure cross-border co-determination in global economic areas. The European Works Council shall in particular receive information and advice rights in economic matters. I too believe that this is a first step, and I hope that this problem will go a little further. We cannot be satisfied with the present circumstances, namely: Information requirements for entrepreneurs in the case of outsourcing, division of enterprises, closure of parts of businesses and mergers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This means that the European Works Council can address the economic interests of the respective country so that jobs can also be maintained in critical situations. The extent to which the statutory provision of the Labour Constitution Act will meet the requirements will be shown. With this regulation, ladies and gentlemen, a first and, as I believe, and as has already been done, a proper step is taken, which will receive my and our full approval. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10681	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. It is desirable to limit the speaking time to 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10702	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Koppler has already disappeared. - Ah, he's sitting there! [[Abg. Koppler: I have two glasses with me. Can I give you one?]] The tax pensioners will only thank you if you agree to laws that do not insure them for months that are not to their detriment. [[Abg. Koppler: I'm not talking about voices, it's about helping people!]] They're following a certain strategy in the last minute. Today's vote was really significant for the situation you are in. First, you will pass laws – and then you will apply for amendments and additional requests. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You too!]] The tax pensioners will only be grateful to you if you do not simply decide on such matters – even if you are a so-called employee representative. This your strategy to present itself as a savior of the nation now is very deep, and they won't thank you the tax pensioners, they won't believe you either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Yeah, that's clear! There are also fewer and fewer workers going to works council elections. [[Abg. Koppeller: 99 percent participation!]] I am now referring to the government template, but I have to say that, because: Make yourself here as a savior of the nation and expect a thank you for a whistle that cries out to heaven, that is really the greatest thing you can afford to do in this regard! [[Abg. Koppler: That must be big!]] I hope you see that yourself. I note that this government proposal to amend the Constitutional Labour Act is again a law that we must understand, as we are obliged to implement these directives in accordance with EU law. I note this only because in recent years, since we have joined the EU, we have already made several points about the fact that, in fact, in Parliament, we are, in most cases, only an implementing organisation of the EU directives. But that was always disputed. Today we are dealing again with such a directive that we need to understand. That is what I am expressly saying. Secondly, Austria was once again sumptuous. This government template would have been available as early as 22. It is necessary to enter into force on September 1996. We already have October, and today we are only dealing with it in Parliament. Until it is finally decreed, it takes another month. So we're tough. - I find that too. I am now going closer to § 179 para. 1 to arrange for the posting of the members to the special negotiating committee. We have requested a separate vote on these paragraphs, because it is simply not to be seen that the Austrian members to be sent to this special negotiating committee may be members of the Works Council, but also officials of the representation of interests or their employees. We liberals believe that both the European Works Council and the Special Negotiating Committee really only have a right of vote, a right of negotiation, to represent or to announce their rights for their operations, which are democratically elected works councils of the members to be sent there. I do not see at all that a works council elected by the members and by the workers' office, which is withdrawn for any reason, is to be represented by a official or a worker of the Chamber of Labour, the Trade Union Confederation or any other representative of interest, who will then represent these people in his place. We find that undemocratic, and that is why we have requested a separate vote. I hope you will see this, even if you are constantly stressing what good workers' representatives are They are and what high results you have achieved in the works council elections. Do you agree that these works councils are now also in the negotiating committees, including in the special negotiating committees?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10805	Next, Mr Helmut Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10826	Mr President. – The Federal Minister is not here. - High house! - I don't see him. [[Abg. Koppler: There he is!]] I would like to comment on the point of the International Labour Conference on the protection of workers' claims in the event of the inability of the employer. I think it is a sensible agreement, and we Liberals will agree. I just wonder why, in Austria, we need to overfill this sensible framework legislation with our insolvency compensation fund, which we obviously cannot afford. ==References====External links== Mr Oellinger replied to a question on June 1995. The question was: How was the debt at the end of each year? – Answer: 1992: 1.1 billion, 1993: 3.5 billion, 1994: 5.2 billion, 1996: 6 billion, perhaps even 7 billion schilling. – Mr Federal Minister, will we continue to do so? Mr Oellinger then asked you: How do you predict the financial situation of the insolvency compensation fund for the following years? You, Federal Minister Hums, answered – not only me, but also Mr Ollinger, yes to the House: No sound statement can be made on this question. – That is, you promise social benefits that you cannot finance. This is obviously not a matter of concern to anyone. It's going on then. Question: How many persons whose claims were satisfied by the default fund were subsequently employed in the same holding, in the successor holding? You answered this completely lapidar: Such a recording shall not take place. Mr. Federal Minister Hums! Don't you know what's going on? Do you know that employees make use of their right to early retirement in the company's insolvency, all of their social rights at the expense of this fund, and then be reintroduced there – see Hallein Papier? You don't care, you don't know, you don't raise that. Federal Minister! Professor Lehner of the Wifo told you a year ago that this type of fund - which is also one of the Maastricht criteria - represents a real threat, a deficit of between 6 and 7 billion schilling. You have said that the debt of the Fund is not as high as that they would really fall into the weight of the budget deficit, which is a literal quote from you. Professor Lehner has told you that if you remain in the construction, you will also have to cancel an employee's contribution, which I personally consider to be false. We Liberals have proposed to you in 1995 - if you already want to stay in construction - that you change the payment arrangements, and that you, for example, make payments in principle up to the maximum basis. What is it about when a company is pleading? – It’s about turning the biggest hardships away from the workers. That is why it is because you finance over 0.7 percent of the gross wage sum, i.e. the additional wage costs. This increases labour costs, and if you increase labour costs, you reduce employment. This has been discussed many times since then, and you still have 6 billion debts, Federal Minister Hums. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hums.]] Yes, you have it, because you are responsible for it. I assume that, as a member of the government, you are responsible for the conduct of this fund as long as it is in the hands of the state. If you really need to break down social hardships, you will have to limit payouts with the maximum basis of assessment. The fact that the low-income workers get their full claims is of course true. These people really need to help you. In addition, you will have to find a cover that works in a case of illness similar to that of the workers' compensation fund, where entrepreneurs receive only 70 per cent of the contributions, although they pay 2.3 per cent of the gross wage amount. All of this is a building you've built that's obviously distracting you. Contributions, contributions, contributions – you don't like it any more. Now we're 0.7 percent – can it be a little more? How about 1 percent? If it is still not enough, increase to 1.2 percent. That's the point. Why don't you ask yourself this question? The head of the KSV has literally said that the IAG Fund is a public institution and, like all sources of money controlled by the state, it is shamelessly exploited. I think we should have the courage and take the step to let this fund be managed privately. It would still fail to impose an insurance obligation on companies, where, depending on the company's credit quality, there is a private insurance policy with enforcement; such models exist in the insurance sector. This risk that employees will not get their salaries in the event of the company's insolvency could therefore be covered by private insurance – more expensive than your fund can not be. Mr. Federal Minister Hums! This debate offers you an opportunity to point out that you have a problem that you cannot pass by. 6 billion schilling debts are truly enough for this fund. Whoever checks the insolvency statistics of this year and who sees the abuse done with this fund can only say one thing: Mr. Federal Minister, you need action! Reform You put forward proposals to Parliament, how you can reduce both debt and prevent abuse, and how you can limit overpayments in order to restore a proper legal status.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10873	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10897	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank Mr Hums and his team, but also all those who have helped to ensure that the deterioration for the steel pensioners does not come to an end, even if Mrs Madl does not fit in with what I understand. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Indeed, if you do not contribute to this, you can become annoyed at it if there is a success for others. I would just like to comment briefly on the Council of Europe's works, since Mr Koppler has already made a very detailed report on this. I would like to point out a few additional points as President of the Works Council in the textile and leather industry. First: The importance of this function is that more information will be available to workers in the future. Secondly, It also brings the advantage that we no longer have to accept statements from local management. The European Works Council will in future inform employees of the Group's overall situation. We hope that the better possibilities for information will enable us to identify and resolve abuses in the world of work in the past. Ladies and gentlemen! I am thinking, for example, of maladministration in some countries, where competition in our industries is most cheaply produced with the help of child labour. These maladministrations must be stopped by joint action. For example, it will be possible to predict relocations which will not be decided from today to tomorrow. But above all, workers can no longer be played against each other, and for this reason it is important for me that a European Works Council be created. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10995	The amendment just referred to is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I call Mr Meisinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11019	Mr President. Federal Minister! If Members Koppler and Bauer are so horribly attached to the Federal Minister and thank you for the generous support of the steel workers, I must say quite honestly to you: You were the ones who have driven so many thousands into the emergency with the management. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the age of 50, workers were removed from the holding. That's how reality looks! To make himself there and to play the hypocrites workers' representative, that is the height. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Mr Oellinger has already found the following words: This is embarrassing for former socialist workers' representatives. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can only remember your predecessors from your ranks who represented workers' interests 50 years ago. You're miles away from that. Therefore, the workers will also run away from you in a number of ways. We see it at the ÖGB, we see it in your party membership, the catastrophic state in your ranks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] And something else: What pressure have you exerted on the workers! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Don't laugh! The workers bow formally – but not in front of laughter, but under the pressure of how it is exercised by the socialist works councils. That's how reality looks in the steel industry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now on the government templates 318 and 329, employment constitution law and company constitution law. It means here: A committee of electors is to be set up in Abs. 1 and 2 obligations not mentioned or insufficiently fulfilled, it may be discharged by the staff representative responsible for the appointment. That means in concrete terms: Selected works councils, which are in this committee, may be discharged from their office if they are not responsible for the function of the ÖGB functionaries or workers' chamber officials. Selected works councils can be detowed by functionalists! My reigns! This has for me strong Marxist trains, such as they belong to the past in far-reaching areas of Europe, while being reintroduced in us under the cover of the EU. You don't need to be proud of such introductions! These are, rather, steps which show that man or worker counts very little. If Members of the Kier have spoken from this point of view of their own purpose and politics for their own people, he is perfectly right. In the course of this mess of the works contracts, pure supply policy is operated for disabled socialist politicians, works councils and officials of the ÖBB and the Post. This is the real problem that this government and its staff representatives leave behind. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I go on with one point and read under § 53 that the trustees can be represented in the case of prevention, I would like to point out that, for example, every tenth trustee is exempt from the ÖBB and also has an office at his disposal. Those ÖBBlers who would work are saved in series. Those who are only on the payroll list at the ÖBB are retained. That's why you won't take the ÖBB to the winning road. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's similar with the mail. A Post Business Constitution Act has been adopted, which is basically nothing but the Employment Constitution Act for staff, but provides for a double number of exempt staff representatives – which was so generously announced a year ago by the ÖGB under the pretext of the "Fairness" action. 27 years of socialist-dominated government policy has not been able to enable the workers and employees to be brought together and, in the course of the course of the period, the transport operators. Your policy has failed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Koppler, you can easily laugh because you don't have to face the competition. You're one of those who take fat cover.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11127	The voluntary speaking time would have ended, but you can stay on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11143	I thank you, Mr Koppler, for the service you give to the liberal, because you drive the voters, the workers in our ranks. [[Abg. Koppler: Do you believe what you're talking about?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11183	Mr Oellinger has reported an actual correction. I would draw attention to the Rules of Procedure. New speaking time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11208	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr Meisinger, in the context of his speech, said that I would have spoken about a shameful scheme in connection with occupational pensions for VOEST-pensionists. This claim is incorrect. I did not talk about a shameful scheme in connection with the steel-pensionists scheme, but about the regulation at the European Works Councils, where foreign workers remain excluded from the passive right to vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11237	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. We come to the votes and I ask you to take the seats. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Labour Constitution Act, the Labour and Social Court Act and the Federal Act on the Post-Business Constitution, together with the title and receipt in 329 of the Supplements. Hiezu has a request from Mr Dolinschek for a separate vote. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to points 2 and 16 of Article I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I(2) and 16 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is decided by a majority. As I have just mentioned, Mr Dolinschek has made a request for a separate vote on Rule I, paragraph 14, paragraph 179, and paragraph 207. I take this request for a separate vote and seek the approval of those Members of the House who are voting in favour of this provision, as amended by the Committee's report. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Here again, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously decided. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to vote in favour of the third reading in order to obtain a sign of approval. I note that the draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mrs Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades, to the Convention (No. 173) on the protection of workers' claims in the event of their employer's inability to pay, together with the declaration in 89 of the supplements, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give an appropriate sign. – The decision of the National Council is unanimous. We shall also vote on the proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Reitsamer, Dr Feurstein and Mr Comrades, on the recommendation (No. 180) on the protection of workers' claims in the event of their employer's inability to pay in 89 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to give a sign. – That is unanimously decided. I shall vote on the request that the present State Treaty, within the meaning of Article 50(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, be fulfilled by the adoption of laws. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give an appropriate sign. – This request was also unanimously adopted. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the law on supplementary arrangements for the application of the social security regulation (EEC), including the title and receipt in 201 of the supplements. Here again, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this proposal for a sign. I note that this was unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to this motion for a sign. – The proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We have done this part of the agenda. 8. Point Report of the Economic Committee on the 1995 Vocational Training Report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs (III-11/67 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 161/A (E) by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschekund Comrades on the comprehensive attraction of teaching (332 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11386	We come to points 8 and 9 of today's agenda. These are the reports of the Economic Committee on the 1995 vocational training report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs in III-11 of the Supplements and of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 161/A (E) by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades on the comprehensive attraction of teaching in 332 of the Supplements. The debate is under one. I don't have a desire to report. We are going directly into the debate. The first speech is by Mr Dolinschek. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11422	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1945 apprentices have been trained in Austria as part of dual vocational training. This dual vocational training system, which is mainly limited to Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany, has also been repeatedly referred to as a model by other countries, but in general there are now signs of abuse. Mr Puttinger! The most recent statistics show the disastrous development in the field of teaching for years. You should also be aware that the number of apprentices has fallen dramatically from 48 percent to almost 42 percent at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Drastic is something else!]] Of course, it is drastic, Mr Klubobmann Khol, when a 6 per cent reduction is observed. Or are the current numbers perhaps not common to you? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: They are very common to me!]] It doesn't seem to be, because otherwise you would see the need for action. As a clubman, one of the government groups in this House should have acted in this case for a long time, but it seems that you do not care about the development in the apprenticeship sector. The number of open apprenticeships has also fallen sharply. Dr. Khol! As you have probably observed, youth unemployment is still relatively low among us today – it is about 5.5 percent – while it is slightly more than 20 percent on the European average. So here we are still relatively good. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're the best!]] But if the number of open apprenticeships continues to decline and the number of apprentices goes down, I can only say: Good night, Austria! We are then slowly moving towards a youth unemployment which is approaching the European average. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If the cat were a hen, she would lay eggs – so similar is your argument!]] Yeah, but the cat isn't a hen. What you're putting into the scales now, Dr. Khol, is not at all an argument, but that's a big bullshit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Why are you so upset, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party? Why don't you act? If there are 5 000 open apprenticeships less than job seekers, that is, I think, just a disaster! [[Call the ÖVP: These are just the numbers from the Labour Office!]] What is the result of this, ladies and gentlemen? – Quite simply on the fact that teaching in Austria is no longer attractive enough. The teaching profession is not attractive enough. [[Call the ÖVP:No idea!]] Contrary to long-term promises made by the Federal Government and by your side, there has simply been nothing done for apprentices and for the enterprises that train apprentices, but the teaching has become more and more uninteresting. An improvement in the apprenticeship situation cannot be expected even in the future in view of the comments you have made from your site. The employee's representation is no longer relevant to the interests of the apprentices. The employer's representative, especially the Federal Chamber of Commerce, even advocates the freezing of apprentice compensation, which is no longer so unrealistic in view of the trade union considerations regarding a zero-on-one round. In turn, the Federal Government, in which you are also anchored, burdens the enterprises by extending the municipal tax on apprentice compensation, thus generally increasing the additional wage costs, burdening the wages and apparently taking the slow death of apprentices and apprentices without response at all. The work situation is changing very easily. It was different 20 years ago than today. Today there is the trend towards service, repair activity, monitoring machinery and so on. Apprenticeship training costs the Austrian state a tenth of the training in secondary and higher schools. An apprentice is worth about 6 000 S to 8 000 S to the Austrian state, an AHS student about 60 000 S. The apprentices are too expensive for these companies today. The charges are simply too high, the rules too restrictive. We have only recently dealt with the Youth Employment Act. You in your tightness have rejected our request. It is no longer possible to train apprentices. Someone can't learn painters if he can't get on a scaffold. No one's going to take it. A baker's apprentice can only learn the bakery profession if he gets up at 4 o'clock in the morning, and the waiter's apprentice can also take this job only if he stays longer in the evening. No youth will begin such a teaching if he knows that he cannot be used whenever necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! It is often discussed to extend the apprentice's schooling time. This would not be a problem if the apprentice, like the student, would be insured with the parents and would not receive compensation for apprentices for schooling. Only for those activities he does in a company during his apprenticeship training should the apprentice receive an apprenticeship compensation. This would also have to be a little more attractive. We have apprenticeship workshops today, we have specialist schools. In the course of the apprenticeship workshop there is a vocational school and a practical instruction at the same location. Apprenticeship compensation usually applies to boarding costs. In the vocational schools, where the duration of teaching is 40 hours a week, the teaching is divided around 50 : 50 into practical and theory teaching. There is no compensation for apprentices. These students are insured with the parents. Why is this not possible for apprentices too? Apprenticeship workshops in private firms should be promoted. No funds should be set up, as the colleagues from the Socialist Group are planning, but support should be provided through tax relief. Ladies and gentlemen! It would have to be easy to make the teaching more attractive. I call for the following measures: a legal definition of an annual minimum increase in the compensation of apprentices to the extent of the other collective wage increase in the respective industry, i.e. a minimum compensation for apprentices. Mr Feurstein said that the collective contractual partners would have to move into collective contractual sovereignty. I believe that if the social partners do not continue to do anything – they do nothing more today – then we have to make different rules. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also call for a Federal-funded grant of benefits for above-average benefits up to the level of the costs, including for AHS students, a tax relief for apprentices who train apprenticeships, a withdrawal of the municipal tax on apprentice compensation, an early start-up information of all pupils on all educational and occupational opportunities, a withdrawal of social security contributions and the possibility of co-insurance with parents, a reorganisation of apprenticeship training through a concentrationd school training in economic fields rather than the obsolete polytechnic course before the occupational teaching, improved compulsory training and further training for our vocational teachers, a general promotion of apprenticeship training abroad, a equality of master's examination with the B-Matura in the public service and, of course, free access to the vocational colleges. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to make some progress in apprenticeship training, take up our proposals and agree to them as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11547	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Voluntary speaking time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11568	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dolinschek! I am pleased that you have drawn some of the points you have raised here from the programme of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. This is, of course, open to all. I am very pleased that you have taken on a number of points. They have said that apprenticeship training takes place only in Germany and Austria. There's no way I'm going with you d'accord. There's still too little information. Apprenticeship training is available in the countries Denmark, Switzerland, Luxembourg, parts of Italy, namely South Tyrol. Wherever this apprenticeship is available, youth unemployment rates are much lower than in those countries which do not have dual training. However, we have found that the number of apprentices is falling. However, this is also due to the fact that the demand for continuing vocational education is greater, which in turn causes higher costs for the State, since there is training only through school and not through establishments. However, there is also an investigation into why the number of apprentices has declined. The fact that the industry is taking up a third of fewer apprentices is certainly involved in the globalisation of our economy, including a restructuring of the work processes. Secondly, there are problems. This has been cut over and over again, Mr Dolinschek, you too have done it. One of the main reasons why businesses are less and less willing to train apprentices is labour and youth employment law. A joint motion for a resolution was tabled in the Committee on Industry before the summer, calling on the Federal Government to review individual measures. Among other things, the Minister for Social Affairs was asked to consider whether all young people could be equal, whether they are apprentices, pupils or not. Only the age, up to 18 years, should be significant. An 18-year-old can purchase a driver's license, but he can't get up to a ladder, or he can no longer work in a gastronomy company if he's 19 and apprentice. There's something that's changed in this direction. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 10 years we hear that! Like a Tibetan prayer mill!]] Since I have spent some time here in the house, I know, Mr Haigermoser, that only slowly a rethinking is possible in the minds of individuals who are not familiar with apprenticeship training on a daily basis, but there must be a rethinking. I believe, Mr Social Minister, that a rethinking in your ranks will be possible in this direction too, and I am grateful for that. We also need a rethinking of the parents for successful training in the dual system – according to the motto "Careers with Teaching" – that one can also make a career with an apprenticeship training. As long as parents are not convinced that they are successful with vocational training in the dual system, it will be difficult to motivate young people to do so. Five reasons are particularly important for an apprenticeship system: First: It is the training in the dual system that brings us new entrepreneurs from this system. 52 per cent of all who have made a teaching then become independent. We need young entrepreneurs, we need new entrepreneurs. That's the one point. The second point shows that we have very good training. This is always shown by all international competitions, where Austria is leading Europe-wide in medals and in the skills that the apprentices demonstrate. Thirdly, as I have just mentioned, the training system has led to the fact that youth unemployment has been limited. Fourthly, it is very important that the training autonomy is maintained for the firms, because they really know which specialists they need and in which direction they are trained. Fifthly, it is also important that the costs of the dual training system are kept within the framework of the large number of firms. But what we need to do to make this area more attractive has already been mentioned in the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Industry. We need greater flexibility in order to allow young people to have more opportunities in the labour market through the creation of group teaching professions. In addition, we may also need to remember that the public sector, namely the individual ministries and public authorities, is very happy – perhaps also Parliament – to include skilled craftsmen in the public service, which, of course, has been trained in the private sector. This, of course, also costs the private sector if it trains professionals and then no longer makes them available in their businesses. I believe that we should also come to talk about the burden compensation that we still have to discuss. The training report, which is still under the aegis of Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz, also contains aspects of the future, and I believe that we should continue to build on these aspects of the future. For we are talking not only in the European Union, but also with us about lifelong learning, where we need to find different new methods, so that learning is not finished after school, the training period, but also other ways to move into other areas, opportunities that ensure life-long learning. However, it must also be pointed out that lifelong learning must be sought by people themselves, that training offers must also be accepted. Because only if they qualify themselves do they have more opportunities in the workplace, and precisely because of the globalisation of the economy, it is a challenge that every person needs and that everyone should follow. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues, who are still going to speak on this subject, will tell you that the apprenticeship situation in the individual federal states is different, that we have very probably federal countries where young people have found apprenticeships, and federal states where this does not work to the desired extent. I hope that we can discuss the proposals for improvement contained in the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Industry, so that we can make the teaching even more attractive for young people and their parents.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11608	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11629	Mr President. Federal Minister! Madam President. I can't disagree with you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only, the question is already the... – My God, dear Mr. Schwarzenberger, this invitation was not necessary, it will not be followed either. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Come to us!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What did he say?]] He asked me to come to him. I suppose he invited me home privately for a snap. I can imagine that very well. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Here you better come to us!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You know the song of the 10 little negros!]] I would suggest that we talk about the vocational training report again. Mrs Vice-President! So I really can't disagree with you in terms of content, I'm just wondering why we're having this discussion so late. This country of Austria has achieved a very great result in dual training so far, and not only since this time has the number of apprentices broken down, and there are a variety of reasons why businesses are no longer able to meet their natural obligation to train apprentices. There are now three think schools: One wants to introduce vocational training funds, the other wants to have fiscal measures, and the third wants direct grants for apprentices. All these are repairs to an existing system with which we were obviously successful in the past, but in the future will not find the outcome. On the vocational training fund: The industrial association warns us of a training tax and speaks of costs of 6 billion schilling for the economy if each training centre is funded by 4,000 s per month. So let us note that these 6 billion schillings are additional wage additional costs. And I mean, no one today can really want 6 billion schilling extra wage costs. Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky points out that he is ready to pay two thirds, even 75 percent of these costs – as a result of an issue of the APA of 17. ==References====External links== Let us also consider this as a real model for reforming teaching. The second – including Dr. Pühringer, head of state of Upper Austria – believe that they can reach with appeals that more apprentices are being trained and ask the companies to provide additional apprenticeships in the short term. After all, it can't be either. The removal of the municipal tax will bring relief from the costs of teaching firms, but not the solution. Ladies and gentlemen! I really propose that we discuss dual training more intensively, go beyond system repairs and rebuild them, because it is really essential in our country. Why don't we separate the teaching period from the vocational schooling? We build up our own vocational training centres, which are to be remodelled after a vocational training year to which the polytechnic course is to be remodelled, which, after this polytechnic course, provides for a professional schooling period of three to six months. Let us give young people the opportunity to have more intensive training in their secondary education, in the vocational school itself. Let us create the true duality between operation and teaching! Let us make it possible for businesses to take up more apprentices because they know that three or six months in the company, which does two apprentices in the company instead of an apprentice. But that will only be done, and this resistance of the entrepreneurship representatives will only break if we separate the question of pay between the working time and the vocational schooling period. The apprentice is to be treated in the same way as he is treated as a student at the secondary education level with all social and training obligations. It is now the issue that an increasing number of businesses are saying – there are studies – that we can no longer afford apprenticeship training with this cost picture. It is in most farms, at least in many, the fat outside. Lean management is announced. Each one is pervading its cost structure. The training costs are particularly affected in the establishments which, due to a natural fluctuations, do not keep the apprentice they train as a young skilled worker on their premises. On the other hand, Madam President Tichy-Schreder said that Mr Dolinschek also – the impossibility to really use apprentices because we have made a sum of rules that may have been well meant, but there and there – and that is to be checked – have lost their sense of meaning. Ladies and gentlemen! Real access is the full equality of apprentices in secondary education, the separation of vocational schooling and teaching time in the workplace, in terms of content, time, remuneration, and, above all, the complete reorganisation of vocational school. The vocational school is sufficient in the fifties, sixties and seventies. The dual training was successful, no question at all. Only, it must continue to succeed with new strategies. Languages for all young employees, apprentices, apprentices, pupils in secondary education. In addition to truly good German skills – it is unfortunate that I have to say that it is not a matter of course – English is the second language we need in a global competition in the European Union. As a third basic knowledge, I think, each of us in his federal state should learn the language spoken over his border. What prevents a Burgenländer from learning Hungarian – at least the basic knowledge – a Upper Austrian, learning something Czech? Only then will we be able to forget the borders, only then will the enlargement of the European Union be done by language... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Dear Dr. Puttinger, you're lucky. But I also appreciate a language with you. I fell into Slovenian with the Carinthians, and I fell into Italian with the Tyroleans. Do we not want this common Europe? Don't we want the Easter enlargement? But then we will also have to speak the language of our neighbours at least in basic knowledge. So I'm not told that we have the content of what we should teach the apprentices in the vocational school. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Greens, as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Apprenticeship training is a far too important question, as if we were allowed only in small reforms in the existing system. We must set up a genuinely fundamental reform in order to bring the firms back into line with their commitment to training. We need to look at the motives of the enterprises that have led them to quit apprenticeship training. There are three levels: One is the homemade Austrian factors. The most important: 68 per cent say that labour law regulations do not allow training. 67 percent of businesses say it has become too expensive to train, and 48 percent say that vocational schooling is too long. But they say that only because in these times the apprentice compensation has to be paid. This argument should be removed from the basis. Morally, there are also 20 percent who say: If I am constantly made poor in the public as a trainee, I feel like training. Only 8 per cent or 6 per cent of businesses, the structural reasons, such as the specialization of the company or internal restructuring, indicate that they no longer train apprentices. So most – two thirds – of the reasons why apprentices are not trained is in our design area. We should use him!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11727	The next item is Mrs Eleonora Hostasch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11751	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Reports are always an important basis for our Members to get an overview of trends, of the situation, but we also need to get guidance from these analyses on future policy decisions and also for the proper development of a subject. Thank you, Minister of State! I am aware that this vocational training report has been completed at a time when you have not yet had the responsibility in this place. That is why I would like to address the request for the forthcoming vocational training report to you now that we may find in the next report even more future prospects, solutions and proposals, how we can deal with the trends that we recognize and also maintain with many digits, in order to be able to give our youth, the economic location of Austria, the specialised work the importance we want very easily. If there is talk of the lack of suitable trainees at apprenticeships, if the training costs or labour legislation are referred to as the cause of the fact that the apprenticeships do not take up apprentices to the former extent, I would like to say a little critically that the employer's side has nevertheless formulated very unilaterally and has received arguments from this side on the education market. I do not think it will continue if we make apprenticeship training and apprentices pure cost factors and constantly complain about too many English, German or other professional subjects in the vocational school, but I think it is important to establish enhanced cooperation among all those involved, including in vocational schools. There are also very good examples. I mention Vienna – not because of the fact that municipal council elections are shortly taking place in Vienna – where, through close cooperation with the employee promotion fund, the labour market service, the economy and also Vienna's policy, not least with the interest representatives, efforts are being made to shape tailor-made actions. We cannot achieve all that we have done, but we can achieve an improvement in the situation. In order to take Vienna out of the line, I would also like to give an example from Vorarlberg, where since 1979, in the industrial group of the metal and electrical sector, a basic supplement has been taken up by all companies and, through this basic framework, a promotion, a training premium has been distributed to those firms that train apprentices, and after all, it is about 30 000 s per apprentice. I do not want to say that this can be a general model, but it shows that ideas can do a lot. I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we really have to make a clear commitment to dual vocational training, but not only verbally, but also through comprehensible further development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we in Parliament and first in the Committee on Industry have adopted a motion for a resolution on the reform of apprenticeship training. I would like to address the encouraging measures that have already been taken here, measures to introduce the career maturity for apprentices and students in terms of general access to higher education, but also measures to establish a vocational orientation for all pupils in secondary education and, last but not least, the agreed promotion of those apprenticeships that train beyond their needs. I would like to mention another incentive, even if it is formulated here in a more neutral form, namely the financing mode of a burden compensation between trainees and non-trainers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We must be aware that we must not be criticized by others in the form that paper is simply patient, but we must develop the vocational training system in concrete terms. In Vienna, for example, if vocational schools were to be offered through the Council of Town Schools, so that for apprentices who have not yet found a place of teaching, the vocational school exists as a starting point, I consider it a transitional solution so that young people do not stand on the streets. But it cannot be the last development because this form is not integrated into our entire system of dual vocational training. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Peter has spoken about the motives of vocational training firms, I would like to say that parents and young people also have reasons for deciding on vocational training. These too must be taken into account if we are to continue the reform of vocational training. I think we should be honest. Everyone has to jump over their own shadows if we want to achieve success, but the future of our youth must be worth it to us.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11834	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11855	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I did not actually come out to raise the oath for the defence of the dual training system. The dual education system is already important, but I also want to see actions. And if it is really so, as honourable Members Hostasch said, that the government parties now want to speed up the reform of dual training, I ask Mr Hostasch to make it really faster than apprenticeship training goes down, otherwise we have nothing more to do with reform. If you look at the figures in this report – if I remember quite a little, then it has not been discussed at all today, and that also says a lot about the quality of this report – then you must honestly say that they are staggering. There is a loss of a quarter of apprentices in dual education. A quarter of fewer people are in dual training! In view of this, you should go here and not just put trusty ulcers on the dual education and say: We are in favour of this, but we have to go a little deeper and ask what the reasons are. I would not make it so easy and say – as Mr Tichy-Schreder has done – that globalisation is due to the fact that fewer apprentices are being trained in Austria. I would like to know what globalisation and increasing competition in world markets are all about apprenticeship training. If Mr Tichy-Schreder can clarify this direct link, this abstract link between globalisation and the decline in apprenticeship training, then perhaps we would be a step further. But, of course, what my colleague, Tichy-Schreder, means, is clear: Globalisation stands here as a synonym for cost reduction programs. Mr Helmut Peter said this very clearly: It is about lean production, lean management, and "lean" is not only called slim, but is also called poor. It's about poor management and poor production, that's the problem. If the companies really want to save and believe that they have to save on apprenticeship training, they are on the wood road. Apprenticeship training in the form of dual training is currently the only known system in Austria with which we have achieved certain successes. I think it would be time to look slowly – this is certainly not a task that we can entrust to the Minister of Economic Affairs because he is not responsible for it – which other European countries have achieved with other vocational training systems. For example, I just point out – Mr Minister, you are now on this report – the French system, which works very well, which offers much greater differentiation in vocational training, which is much better suited to the European market and its requirements than it is currently the Austrian and the German Republic's system. At least there is a serious discussion in the Federal Republic of Germany. They say that we should actually look beyond the edge of our plate and look at how this works in other European countries. There is no question of systems such as the British, which works very badly, because there was never anything invested there, because the companies never did training because it was never something that the companies there were interested in. But there are other countries that are successful with other systems. I do not mean that we should now necessarily copy the French system. I am not here to ask you to adopt the French system, but I mean: Let's take a look at this! If we look at what is being done in other European countries, I think that the quality of this report – apologise, Mr Minister – would look different. This report, this vocational training report, is composed of figures and some poor, thinned rates. This is, as it were, the lean vocational training report you produced. That's not enough for me. I think there must be more quality in reporting, too, if we want to deal seriously with the consequences and consequences of this dual training crisis. And I mean to come back to it, it's not just about reducing costs. One will also have to talk about cost reduction and talk. For example: Who is training in Austria? And I am still missing a debate on the fact that we are getting decent land professions that we are getting modern careers. I miss the debate on the fact that state institutions – the state as an employer – are still not doing training, but also close-to-state institutions, such as the ORF. That's not a theme. If one is seriously discussing a vocational training fund, it can only be said that all are included in the vocational training funds. An excuse has quickly been found for an employer, whether he is a private person or a stateman, an excuse has quickly been found why he cannot train, why he cannot pay and why it would be wrong and unfair. If we continue to pursue the idea of a vocational training fund seriously, this only makes sense if all firms and public institutions are invited to pursue apprenticeship training. I do not see why the office merchant should not be possible as a teacher in a ministry. I do not see why training as a media merchant should not be possible in the ORF. I do not see why there should not be a social security buyer or a similar professional image in social security institutions. And there are some more examples that could be found that could explain why state institutions are also required to use their brain narrowness or their money to teach. But again: That can't be everything! I am in favour of funding a vocational training fund by all employers, private and public employers. Everyone pays one, and then under the line comes out a plus for those who run training. This would change the cost question a little, we would be able to go a step further. But also a second would be necessary: If, on the one hand, the cost of teaching on the one hand is so low if, on the other hand, the costs for the administrative academies of the federal government are very high, for example, because the State not only promotes training in these administrative academies, but also subsidises the fact that the people of wages, the pay continues to be paid, it must also be possible to discuss training at another professional level and their funding by the State. It cannot be that the State takes the right to say: We make our officials excellent, to super officials in the administrative academies, and this should be paid primarily to the general public, but apprenticeship training is a business we don't want to care about so much. I think there would be more honesty here. Here, if one really wants to compare the training costs seriously – including the cost of university education – one has to take into account, one that covers everything and not just one sector against the other. Then one would probably get a more realistic picture and a somewhat more advantageous picture of the possibilities of financing apprenticeship training. I think there's something to do here. It would be necessary – I have already said that – to consider whether or not to award public contracts – that is to say, what other measures one might consider – not to include, for example, a criterion in the Federal Procurement Act, whether this company, which is to receive a public contract, conduct teaching training or conduct training. This would be a way of thinking about it if you really mean it with the promotion of apprenticeship training. But we have discussed this very often, and I am always listening to the culprits, the dual training needs to be improved, but few concrete reforms. Of course, models are also imaginable, as she reminded colleague Peter. Here too, we will be talking about the costs. What I do not like about my colleague Peter's model is the idea that the apprentice will still receive a very low apprenticeship compensation – as before – in the half-year he will remain with the teacher. That can't be it, colleague Peter! It cannot be said that the State should train for half a year and that it should take over the costs or that the parents should take over the costs for the apprentice or anyone else. Perhaps the state is also promoting by subsidies, but we can still pay only the apprentice compensation, which is not everywhere but in some professions shamefully low. That can't be it then! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It's not mostly like that. That's very different. There are professions, there the payment is very neat, there you are very fast – I know – on the salary that you can then also work in the private sector later. Maurer, for example, is a very well-paid teaching profession. But with the tile armies and the painters who have to work hard and often have little training, except for grinding, that is not the case. Mr Haigermoser! I worked a lot with apprentices, with apprentices in the country, not in the city, and there the picture is often very depressing. There are a number of questions to be discussed very carefully. You have to look at other models. These models should also be studied here in the House or in a report, and more experiments should be allowed. Finally, it is about whether our young people receive proper training. I think it is quite possible to work with training model schools in this respect, to develop models of vocational training that are developing beyond and developing in parallel with the dual system. I think it is possible to think that the path is perhaps superior which France has taken in vocational education and training. There are still many questions to be resolved, including the question that the vocational training report points out very briefly and very inadequately, life-long learning, continuing vocational training and training. I give you an anecdote that illustrates some of the understanding of vocational training and of the yes to life-long learning that we are in. The Year of Lifelong Learning was started with an opening event, and I was there: There were several section heads from different ministries. I have experienced one, he has read his text completely unscrupulously – I do not know from which ministry he came from, whether from your or from another. It was recognizable that he was not interested in the subject. The second was an opening speaker from the EU Commission, who manages these programmes. And that's the actual anecdotes. He spoke German, not very good, but rather bad, and he apologised for his bad German, on the grounds that because of the high labour overload he had not been able to refresh his German in the last ten to 20 years. I think that illustrates the year of life-long learning better than anything else. Many people, obviously also the civil servants who make this life-long learning, are so burdened with work that they no longer come to life-long learning. If we take this idea of life-long learning seriously, if we take continuing vocational training seriously, we should at last talk in this House about the way in which we keep it on educational leave. How do we cope with models of educational leave that go beyond the one-week and two-week limits? Mrs Steibl! I know the educational leave you mean and I mean is for a year or up to a year. It is based on certain foreign models that we should discuss here, but not only in two, three or four years or only when we write articles for newspapers, but here we should go a step further. I think it is quite possible and possible to finance this. I think it is possible to make proper progress here. I know it's being experimented with models, but I don't think that's enough. In the field of educational leave, we should point out that we want to bring not only the unemployed into employment, but also the workers' life-long learning to the extent that goes beyond the night study of any documents or computers or courses. There are many examples that can still be discussed when it comes to vocational education and training, when it comes to reforming vocational education and training, when it comes to new models. It is important to me, after I have already experienced several debates on vocational training and dual training in this House, that we are finally going a little further. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I miss your will to make a little progress on this question of vocational training. If I have to consider that the question of vocational training funds still threatens to fail at the internal difficulties of the social partners, I ask myself: What are we discussing here? There are resolutions, motions for resolutions, and then Mr Maderthaner states: I do not really want to! although he has adopted this resolution. Mr Hostasch came to the speaker's desk and said: I don't call it a professional training fund. Where are we? We have decided here in this House that we want to do this, and then it is said somewhere from a back Chamber of an interest organization: Njet!, although the same parliamentarian who spoke the Njet is sitting here in this House. I think it is necessary to consider this before making a motion for a resolution. You have to think about what you want. And above all, one must demonstrate the will that it is really serious to have a reform in vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! That's where you're first and foremost required. We make good proposals – I think – across the opposition parties, one by one, and you're always just saying Njet!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11988	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12010	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies! Gentlemen! I'm not right about Mr Oellinger. I have looked very closely at the vocational training report and it is very open and very critical and includes a comprehensive statistics. These statistics show the current level of vocational training and can be summarized with a few sentences. First of all: The dual training system has proven itself in Austria, and we can be proud of this dual training system! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that the closer the practice is to training, the higher the benefit for the individual apprentice and for the company, but also for the economy, and there is no need to hide international comparisons. For example, if you look at the closing rates – I have looked very closely at the report – you see – Mr Oellinger, look at page 28 – you can compare France, England, but also other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] The final quota in Austria is unevenly higher. We do not need to shyen these international comparisons, but – I give you the right – we face problems. This process has never been completed, and there is a gap between the open positions and the offer. There are many causes for this decline. Two have been mentioned in the report; they have not yet been addressed, namely the demographic development and the change in social education demand. Look at the statistics! It is a trend towards more education, more general education. This is also documented in statistics and is also expressed in apprentice statistics. But I believe that we should continue to use all our powers to bring about a change of consciousness and to launch an image campaign. It is actually the task of politics to develop future prospects. If you look at the reason why fewer and fewer firms are training, it is clear that there are also the costs, the high training costs – I like to admit – but also the legal regulations. There are a lot of measures being taken in the individual Länder. I have the result of an apprentice summit in Burgenland. All of us have come together and have developed a model for our – there were only 300 apprentices – young people looking for an apprenticeship to create additional apprenticeships: Businesses receive up to 4 000 S per month in the first year of education, less in the second and third years. But in any case, 200 apprentices could be accommodated in Burgenland. The money also comes from the special programme of labour market management – thanks to the skillful negotiation of the two ministers. In Austria, there are 300 million schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] - No, that's not true. There is also the model – on which we agreed yesterday – that the country of Burgenland takes up apprentices, for the period of the first and second courses, in order to enable the vocational school. We are already trying to enter into cooperations with private companies, for example with the large kitchen in the hospital Oberwart, for gardeners in the country gardens and and and and. There are – I have read this today in the tomorrow "Kurier" issue – also considerations on the part of the federal government as to how, for example, different teaching professions can be summarized in order to enable the apprentices to learn more. All these are, of course, actions that are beautiful and good, yet, I believe, we as politicians must also develop long-term prospects. I have already talked about image advertising, about rethinking, and this must take place in the minds and cannot be decreed and subsidized. We must offer continuing vocational training in the direction of foreign languages – I think Mr Peter has referred to this, and I like it very much, Mr Colleague, in the field of further education and not in the field of training, and especially supported. One must promote entrepreneurship, that is very important. As mayor of German companies I have experienced – these were already trained – those who were on migration. Why is this not happening in Austria? – I could imagine that very well, because you get to know a lot, you go through Europe and you organize it accordingly. I know, the unnecessary bureaucracy! There are certainly incomprehensible provisions in the Youth Employment Act, for example, which are very clear. Mr Scheibner spoke to me. The FPÖ is currently with Mr. Haider on voting, for example in Donnerskirchen it is with 1 million schilling on voting advertising. You've pasted: "Wahltag is Payday", and the money on the hand you also promised, 1 million schilling for the Kleinklaranlage! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It would be better if Mr. Haider would invest this in apprenticeship training and not in seizing voters in Donnerskirchen, for you will be on 13 March. No additional voters were given October. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12095	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12116	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to address the last appeal made by Mr Mayor, otherwise I would have to ask him whether he has already carried out some Heurigen visits to Donnerskirchen today. [[Calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted that the vast majority of Austrian apprentices are well trained. That, I think, can be determined once. Of course, criticism is appropriate to the system, but fact is – once again – a demonstration system of training for Europe can be found here. This once from the point of view of the liberals. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hostasch said that guidance was needed. Well, what are orientations? – The fact is that cooperation is a vocational school – companies. It works better, there a little less good, but in principle there is this cooperation. For the Fund only a brief remark: The call for a fund, that is, more bureaucracy, has not yet secured a single apprenticeship, at most one in the bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen! That's, I think, proven. It is therefore better to relieve businesses, although I admit that the cost issue is not the only one. But positive thinking is a relief rather than introducing a new tax or tax pot. - On the one hand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] France, Mr Oellinger, has one of the highest youth unemployment councils in Europe. France – with the system there that you want to introduce as a system worth showing or imitating in Austria. Not with us, ladies and gentlemen! I believe, of course, that there are examples of a number and that there have also been surveys, not only this vocational training report, which must be discussed today, surveys, meetings in the countries, in the Parliament, with the social partners. There was a parliamentary survey on the future of apprenticeship training. This House is located in this House on 1 February 1993. Many things were listed that would have been done that were consistent. When you look at exactly what has actually been improved, you notice that it was actually zero comma Joseph! Zero comma Joseph, in particular with regard to the cost situation, the relief for businesses. I'll start the record and quote from this survey. An expert from the Swiss Institute of Vocational Education – another example from abroad – said that Max Mathys from Switzerland is referring to the situation of Switzerland: It is always noticed that the enterprises deserve the apprentices. – You heard this today also a biterl: Ollingers, hostashs and so on. – A study at the University of St. Gallen clearly disproves this argument. The additional costs, depending on the intensity of the training, are thus different professional figures, between 20 000 and 70 000 Swiss francs per year. That is about 160 000 to 560 000 S, which is due to additional costs. That means that we must meet at this cost front in order to relieve ourselves, and not introduce a fund that would mean new burdens on businesses, ladies and gentlemen. That is to say, if we want to be found in these survey protocols, in all the reports that come into the house, then we would be very quick to improve the current situation. Ladies and gentlemen! All that is decided upon in bureaucracy prevents businesses from training apprentices, be it the work contract situation et cetera. As for the accompanying measures – a comment still – by the companies, which is what the additional learning initiatives are about, it is very interesting to look into this report. On page 64, it is found that for extra-school additional education, 63 percent of the costs are paid voluntarily by firms. 63 percent of the costs are done voluntarily by the companies despite the high costs! One must also recognize that. This should not be detractive, in no way should it be a question of the need for us to develop, of course, what the occupations are about to happen. If you look at the apprenticeship statistics in 1995 for example from the state of Salzburg, you can see that there is an apprentice for car manufacturers and one for machine tools. The question, therefore, is – this is just a small example of a variety – how to create land professions that could, or should, improve training and, in addition, improve or improve the apprenticeship's career opportunities in the future. . I can imagine that a car manufacturer has bad professional prospects compared to others. That is why we need to talk about land professions, Mr Oellinger. Here I am, here we are with you. There are certainly approaches to improving the situation. But this must not be postponed to the long-term. The social partners would now be on the train, because this is also under the heading "future of apprenticeship training" in 1993, and one has not implemented anything, but has put his hands in the lap and is now making the famous pingpong game with the social partners, saying: Actually, everything is paletteti! et cetera. Last comment, ladies and gentlemen: I will not get tired of suing the local tax, called the Volksmund apprentice tax, because it is certainly not an offensive, which is the training of apprentices, the improvement of apprenticeship training in the firms.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12195	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12216	Mr President. Federal Minister! My previous speaker, Mr Haigermoser, first said to his previous speaker, Mr Steindl, that he had the impression that he had made some visits to Donnerskirchen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I hope he didn't make some Heurigen visits, I said!]] Anyway, it sounded like you were... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't tell me wrong!]] I'll tell you one thing: I have felt that this remark is very bleak, and I just feel moved, I feel that I am simply causing myself to find out. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's pretty much what you feel!]] I am not the defender of Mr Steindl, he does not need that. However, I think that this is not so much in the debate that is currently taking place at a very high level, and I would like to tell you that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Steindl referred to the importance of foreign language training as being important for continuing training. I think it is also possible to say, in connection with apprenticeship training, that foreign language training is also important for apprentices and training. Is it true that in compulsory school we have at least one foreign language in the catalogue of training and therefore English would also be important for apprentices in the further development of the language. Mr Peter of the Liberal Forum said that the apprentice should be treated as a student in school. It has meant that apprenticeship compensation may be granted only for the time spent on the holding. Unfortunately, he's not here anymore. I see from the Liberal Forum nobody at all – well, few. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Deputies! You can have my glasses if you like!]] - Barmüller's here. I just want to say one thing: You should call something the way it was meant. The Liberal Forum – I understood it – is committed to reducing the apprenticeship compensation of all apprentices in our country by about 30 percent. That would be the proposal implemented, and I do not think we can agree with that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Their spokesperson Dolinschek, in turn, meant that workers' representatives would no longer stand up for apprentices. It would accept zero-son rounds and the like. I'm allowed to give a little help. Especially in the metal industry – in a few days probably also in the metal industry and in other industries – we also increased apprentice compensation in agreement with the economy for apprentices a few days ago. For example, in the fourth year of teaching, we now have an apprenticeship compensation of over 12,000 S gross. This is a sentence which is set by common accord, which is clearly justified and which relativizes the accusation made by Mr Dolinschek, who said that there is nothing going on and that the apprentices are forgotten. I believe that, in the context of youth employment as a whole, which is also reflected in the report before the discussion, we can see that: We have the last place in the EU in youth unemployment compared with other European countries. We can and should also be proud of this in the context of such a debate. Nowhere in the EU is the youth unemployment rate as low as with us, and we have everything to do to keep it that way. I believe that there are enough approaches across the parties – the discussion has also shown – to improve with good will. I also give the right to all those who, like Mr Öllinger, said that we should not allow much time to pass, but that we should move a little faster and more efficiently at all levels. Finally, I would like to make a point, which is also important: I would like to thank the teachers, i.e. those who train apprentices, especially those teachers who carry out the training in the firm on schedule and do not leave them to chance. I would like to thank those teachers who see the apprentice as valuable employees and not as a burden factor. And I would like to thank those teachers who are happy when the apprentice learns something in the vocational school, and not regret that he is missing in the company. However, I would also like to thank, ladies and gentlemen, those apprentices who are willing to continue their education in our country, also beyond the profession that is willing to act and show commitment when there are maltreatments, such as those who have been taught in the Vienna Electric Engineering School by a "Nazi Teacher" who was in court last week and who opposed it. The procedure – we all know that – is not yet completed. We will see what comes out, but a detail has become known within this procedure, namely the detail that this "Nazi teacher" has a very close relationship with a political party. Mr Stadler took part in the debate on 26 February. In a different context, the public has a right to information. And I mean, even on this question, the public has a right to information, for example: How close is the relationship of professional school teacher R.R. to the FPÖ? Or a second question: Why do you think, ladies and gentlemen – Mr Scheibner comes right away, he can, if he wants, answer these questions or leave them unanswered – why do you, Mr Scheibner, believe that such people in your party feel very comfortable? – These are questions that interest the public. I'm trying to answer her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12299	I call Mr Scheibner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12321	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke of a debate at a high level. Mr Riepl! In your speech I really missed this high level, which is painfully missing, because, Mr Riepl, you are a member of a government party. [[Complaints with the liberals]] They are representatives of a party which, in some cases, is right; I am sorry today, Mr Koppler, who is truly credible in representing the interests of the apprentices, always insists on the flags that they represent the interests of the apprentices. – And then go down here, distribute censorships, refer – that is hardly any more to listen to – to the international statistics that our apprentices are doing much better than those in other countries, and then you come with the insanity of this professional school teacher. I would rather have expected you to put forward proposals for solutions, to describe and criticize the problems, and here, as a representative of a government party, to bring solutions to the problems of apprentices and not to bring down those old plateaus that might fit into an election speech. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Riepl! I don't want to quote it again because I did it last time, but apparently you weren't there. But if you're already talking about radicalism and diffamation here, I'll tell you today how you or your friendly organizations deal with the apprentices, which image you miss the apprentices. The socialist "children's friends" have published a brochure: "Ingredients in action. What you should always do against right." For children and young people, this brochure suggests how to deal with right-wing extremism. Questionnaires have been designed for this, and interestingly everything is on one line: The gymnasiast is represented as a good antifascist who always and everywhere opposes right-wing extremism. The primary student is already a biterly differentiated and problematic, but he's still to be saved because he says: Actually, I do not want to have anything to do with this xenophobicutism. But then the apprentice, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Riepl, and I will now read to you what your socialist "children's friends" say to the apprentice: – Opinion card two: There are many Nazis in Austria, and I like that. For foreigners take away jobs and apartments. We should also donate for foreigners. But if it's a bad thing for an Austrian, no one's gonna help him. I'm private and I don't want to have any contact with foreigners. – Siegfried, 15 years old, apprentice. Mr Riepl! You should do something in your own ranks about the fact that the apprentices are really being diffamated to the most! There's something you'd have to do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! There is, of course, a consensus in this House, as I believe, that we all have to deal with the questions of the apprentices, because this problem must really concern us all. In fact, contrary to all international statistics, we are faced with the problem, Mr Commissioner, that since 1979 we have had 40 percent fewer apprentices, that we have for the first time for two or three years still fewer apprenticeships than job seekers. The President of the Jugendgerichtshof, Jesionek, who is supposed to be close to your party, has also expressed himself very clearly when it comes to youth crime, Mr Riepl, who has risen by 40 percent over the last five years. Jesionek meant: If the lack of teaching places of the future continues, this is a time bomb for our society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Mr Riepl! Listen You really are with this professional school teacher now! This is about the things of the apprentices and not about your party propaganda. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, like many others, such as your colleague Koppler, take care of the concerns of the apprentices – you would have enough to do with that – and stop with this party propaganda!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12405	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12426	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! At the outset, I would like to mention some basic points on vocational training. First of all, I would like to make a prelude to the dual training system, as almost all the previous speakers have done here on this pult. The 1995 report shows - and this should be clearly stated here - that unemployment in all those countries that have a dual education system, namely Switzerland, Denmark, Germany, Austria, is the lowest among young people. I therefore think we have to defend the dual training system at the end of the day and make it clear that this system is the best in the current economic situation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to point out that the companies in Austria did not suffer from the decades-long efforts of the advocates of the socialist doctrine who tried to convey a healing world outside of practical training. It was Kreisky's policy to bring as many young people as possible to secondary schools, which in many cases have the manko to train far from any professional practice. A consequence of these considerations was to put as many young people as possible into universities and universities. - We know the result. We know that we have an unsatisfyable oversupply in some professions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] You will give justice to your party president who has always preached this! Or are you different? They will confess to it! Or want You deny that? I can't imagine that! Thirdly, The successive decline in apprenticeship numbers is below 50 percent – we are currently 47 percent – but is not only due to the higher education in society. I believe that it must also be noted here that the apprentices have always been evaded. This attitude has been passed on to the public in constant rumours. However, as in the case of these misdemeanors, ladies and gentlemen, they did not behave as far as training is concerned. On the one hand, they always criticized business training. It was introduced for a longer period of vocational schooling, but was then no longer willing to implement the costs too high in the state and semi-governmental industries, where there were a large number of training places. I'll tell you: Entrepreneurs have not abandoned the young, which was so often claimed by false prophets. I have personally been convinced, on the basis of the figures in Salzburg in September of this year, that this is data which clearly proves that we have more apprentices in the first year of education than we had before. I ask you: Execute After that and do not always present other facts and facts to the public! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever leads to these fundamental remarks and then asks for a training fund is at the summit of ignorance or ignorance. He needs further assistance in the social market economy. Thank God, however, seems to win the reason. A fund that is already available – you can understand – within the framework of the 7th. ÖGB Congress 1972 was called for, is not being set up now. This is certainly an outdated demand, I would like to say almost the demand of a party looking backwards. However, I would like to say something clearly and clearly here to the Fund: What could one have promised from a fund to promote training that goes beyond its own needs? What about a fund that is available only to firms that offer a higher quality of training? They know very well that the explanatory remarks state that these are merely teaching workshops. What do you mean? You honestly – the Greens like SPÖ – with this project? In my opinion, they do not want to achieve anything but a controlled state education. – We can say: We stand for a dual training system, and this decoupling of apprenticeship training from the labour market does not take place for us. This is a social problem which I would like to put to the discussion here. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is going a different way. I would just like to add four points that illustrate the direction in which we are going: First: The aim of all the reform measures must be to increase the attractiveness of apprenticeship training, both for the employer and for the employee, in this case the apprentice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, we call on the EIA to change the legal framework. It has already been mentioned a few of these. But let me add something to the first point. [[Abg. Koppler: Apprenticeship is the same cost factor!]] I'll talk about that! – Let me say one more thing: Another mistake we are threatening to go is that we do not consider apprentices who do not receive an apprenticeship to be socially viable. We have the same teaching to promote, and we have to examine how we can create opportunities for our young people in teaching. They are not people excluded from society. They do not need a tenth year of schooling, but they need to be made clear that they can be happy where there are opportunities for them, for example as an auxiliary worker in the construction industry, as a taxi driver or as a barber in the hospitality industry. Let us also accept these people! Let us also create the appropriate opportunities for them! We got her! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to give you a list of all the teaching professions so that you can make all these careers available to these people! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Thirdly, The EIA is convinced that we will have to meet new needs in the field of occupational training. There must, of course, also be apprentices in new professional sectors. On this point I would like to give Mr Oellinger a word. But these new professional sectors are not only in the state sector, but they are also sufficient in the private sector. Fourth and last: The cost burden has already been shown several times. We are of course in favour of granting discharges. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We must free entrepreneurs from the feeling that vocational training is being carried out on their backs. In the future, we will also have open entrepreneurs in sufficient numbers for this training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12496	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12517	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers from the government parties have now felt that loud opposition members are talking. One has the impression that they have innumerable ideas and are just waiting to finally come to the government to realize them. One has been sitting here for a decade and the other for much longer and could in truth have already realized everything already if they only meant it seriously and really wanted it! [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I know, in contrast to others, what the point is when it comes to apprentices. I've been on the 7th. In September 1947, Siemens began to learn and in March 1950, after taking the skilled worker's examination, the teaching ended. I had a weekly relationship at the time, which can no longer be imagined today. At that time, the schilling was worth more than today. I earned a week at the beginning of 8 s. This reference was raised after some time to 10 s and then to 12 s, and I was proud as a peacock. I was proud of this self-deserved money. I have the impression that the problems that we had at the time have not really changed substantially to this day. It was about finding a "good teaching" – that was a kind of technical expression at the time. If someone had a father who accepted one – and my father did so – he was taken by the hand, and one went looking for a lesson with one another. Today it's like it was then: Finding a "good teaching" is difficult, it is difficult at all to find a teaching. I think it's sometimes too hard for those who can and also want to take in apprentices. At first glance, it is very uncomfortable to really do this step. – Some time ago, I thought about including an office apprentice in my law firm. But it wasn't because my wife told me: In such a case, you need someone who has made an examination who is entitled to train an apprentice. – That’s why I ask you: Who does it in a smaller area to undergo training and examination, only to be able to employ apprentices? In the case of all the quality of training that may be won if one demands this condition, I would like to remember that many, many thousands of teaching places are prevented in this way. If today, unlike the situation of a few years ago, one has much less apprenticeships than apprentices, then one cannot take dirigistic action, but must make it easier for apprentices to be employed. It is necessary to help apprentices and teachers – an old but true expression. The apprentices are more proud than those who never believed it. The apprentices want to see the teaching and the education and also the related examination as a springboard for their further life. Today they have to complete the teaching and then take the company exam or professional worker examination. Then they are helpers or companions or skilled workers. This seems to be too little for many, and they then try to complete their education in evening courses, in factory schools or in Matura schools. I think it makes sense to allow a person who has completed the teaching and has completed the professional examination to have more conditions than is now the case with this examination. He should be able, if he has spent a certain period of practice, to save himself from further training and examination levels in order to be able to make himself independent. I would also like to imagine the introduction of different training and finalisation procedures for apprentices. Apprenticeship and apprentice are not the same. We know that. There are awakened and less awakened. There are more interested and less interested. One should perhaps keep different levels of graduation open so that the one who is willing to work more and invest more time and energy in his training also achieves a higher degree of graduation, which is beneficial to him in future life. Money plays a role here, of course. Today it is known that every student and student costs the public hand much more than an apprentice. Therefore, it would be very useful to make it possible, from public resources, to give the apprentices a real salary. This would be much cheaper than pressing the young people against their will, until suicide, sometimes into the secondary schools. For these places in schools and also in the university area, it is necessary to spend much more than to enable the apprentices to have the appropriate financial resources. There's supposed to be good lessons. Therefore, obstacles must be removed. It must be in line with the educational needs of the apprentices and allow them the possibility, if necessary, to go further after a level system than it has been in the past. And they must be properly rewarded. – That would be, I think, the secret!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12578	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12599	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can support Mr Ofner's comments seamlessly. Without wanting to drive a cone in, I say: A student costs the Republic in 250 000 S, an apprentice 18 000 S. This is not my personal horse, but I note that the trade union and many who are responsible in the Republic are thinking about the common concept of workers. Because it's a failure, too. One is the castler – and the other is Mr. Maturant. It's just that way in life. The parents say: My child should be better off going to Realgymnasium than starting somewhere as a painter's teacher. Therein lies the whole problem. We have been discussing this situation for a long time, I think, already the fifth round, and it may have changed a lot, but it is still not satisfactory. Federal Minister! This is not a criticism of you, but the vocational training report is rather a vocational training statistics, and there are no new perspectives and ideas in it. However, Parliament should have new ideas on the basis of this report. Mr Haigermoser! I give you the right – although your slipper with colleagues Steindl was superfluous – that vocational training in Austria is a very good one! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The number of students is increasing, the number of apprentices is decreasing. The number of apprenticeships will be lower anyway, and in 2001, ladies and gentlemen, every third student will be a master. We're talking about Austria's economic location. We are talking about billions of investments and are happy that BMW or Steyr is now investing. But we are not talking about the skilled workers we will later need to defend ourselves against the tiger states and against China or Malaysia. This is because huge investments are being made there. And I do not want, pointedly speaking, to become a people of Jewish and shoe-platers who photograph the Chinese as folkloristic because we no longer have skilled workers. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Puttinger! You wrote from my district: This district is as good as ever today. Federal Minister Farnleitner! We have had the most modern training centre in Ternitz: more private, less state. It was privatized. I'm not against privatisation. In this case, however, the training centre with 260 highly qualified training places has been closed. There was no one there who would have financed it. Now there's someone else there. But that doesn't matter to you! Teaching workshops were locked up, money was destroyed, ladies and gentlemen. There, a total of 20,000 apprentices have been trained in recent years. But it's cold. On the one hand, I see today the European Union's investment, on the other hand I read in the "standard" of Saturday: "Creditanstalt plans to reduce 1 000 employees by 1998. That's half the number of Semperit's employees, which is four times as many as Euro-Quartz. Voluntary auctioners will sweeten the finish with additional money. Today, it is true that each person is rewarded if he reduces the number of employees. The worker or employee has... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Mr Meisinger! The debate had a high level until you interfered! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know we're in government. But if today we have a debate on the future of the education policy of the Austrian apprentices, we sometimes have to listen to others. I was right about Mr. Ofner because he was right in the analysis. You probably missed that, Mr Meisinger. My last two sentences: There is a paper which has been signed by you, Mr Federal Minister, by Mr Hums, by Mr Maderthaner and by Mr Vergestnitsch. Now I hear that this should not apply again. Maybe you can tell us about it. This is about the apprentices. It's about the first step, and I think that's very important, because the young people – and that's very many – believe in the economy in this Republic. However, we should not only operate with keywords such as "carriers by teaching", but we should at least give these people a level of arms to the maturants. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12665	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Speech time: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12687	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has not only proved today that a sloppy policy is currently being made in Austria. And the current sloppy reporting is still encouraging that a policy of announcement by Mrs Puttinger or by Mrs Riepl's side can be even stronger! The fact that all this is happening on the back of youth, over which the threatening sword of youth unemployment really hangs, makes me particularly sad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Marizzi! It was the SPÖ that dominated this government in recent years. You have found me today in your speech, but like an opposition politician. – So far, every second student between 15 and 18 years of age has acquired his education on a teaching relationship. Current fact: In July 1996, there were 10 100 job seekers and only more than 4 400 open apprenticeships. The situation in Tyrol is particularly serious. Even if these data are doubted by the EIA: It's the official data. In July 1994 there were 1 411 open teaching places in Tyrol, in 1995 there were 1 107, 1996... [[Abg. Puttinger: Do you know how much percent of the labour market service is provided?]] I know exactly, Mr Puttinger. I am just not in agreement with you because you are just as responsible for this development as the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a collapse of more than 50 per cent within two years, Mr Puttinger! Don't hide this! It's on the 4th. July given. [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] He doesn't listen because the whole thing is very embarrassing to him. There were jubilee reports in July about the completion of an apprenticeship package, which, I quote, "is intended to ensure that enough training places can be provided for apprentices in autumn." These are the messages from ÖVP and SPÖ in July of this year. And what has de facto happened, despite a fundamental consensus of all the parties present here on the problem of the field? Nothing and nothing again, there were only announcements! There is currently de facto dispute, you have confirmed this to me, Mr Puttinger, between ÖGB and the Chamber of Commerce. The ÖGB only wants to support a vocational training fund, the Economic Chamber is opposed to it, it wants to freeze the apprentice compensation. The Economic and Social Committee also calls for the discharge of teaching establishments. Ten days ago your President Maderthaner went to the press with the full-bodied announcement that in the future apprentices will no longer have to pay social security contributions in the first year of teaching. I have examined the matter in the Committee on Social Affairs. Mr. Federal Minister Hums has strongly blocked. And today's amendment tabled by Mr Hostasch, we have come to see how this will look in the future: There will be a 1.5 percent reduction in the contribution base. This is de facto only half of what you have onoctroyed us in the form of a burden from the involvements in the municipal tax system. Mr Puttinger! This is not an incentive for teaching firms to recruit more apprentices! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: No one claimed that!]] You know that very well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have made a very reasonable request that covers the problem in this area, which is really complex. But of course it is rejected again! This application does not want to reduce the compensation for apprentices. We want a minimum collective adjustment. We also want service scholarships. We want tax relief for businesses, because this cost burden is a factor why businesses are reluctant to reintroduce. Of course, this local tax must fall! But we also want to attract the teaching to and for ourselves through a reorganisation of training and so on and so on. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I am at the end of the sentence: As we have observed this discussion today, we have insisted that this coalition really represents the interests of the apprentices in this country only in a lack of representation. And I am sorry for our young people if they are limited to pushing each other to the Black Peter!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12768	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time: Seven minutes. I would like to draw your attention once again: I have no right to stop someone during the voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12789	Mr President. Federal Minister! After this heated debate, I would like to focus on one point in this vocational training report, namely vocational training. This part of the vocational training report shows that the situation is sober, because, in view of the figures, it is also a little to think about whether it is not sometimes for young people themselves or for workers, to what extent training offers are also accepted. This report shows that there has been little increase in the adoption of continuing vocational training in the last decade. This means that only a quarter of the workforce has already taken up training at all. The Central Statistical Office recently published that only three percent of Austrians between 15 and 25 years of age use extra-school training for continuing vocational training. This is only about one percent of the population at all. If we are now discussing the safeguarding of apprenticeships, we must be clear that the motto: "Career with Teaching" is immensely important and not just a keyword. We really have to deal with it more seriously than ever. Because it makes a lot of thought when you see how little is accepted by the offers and how little is sought to really get a qualified education and training. It is also remarkable that every fifth youth still has no completed vocational training: I would like to ask the question in the room: What's that about? – In this case too, both sides should become active. It is a logical consequence that we need to provide better framework conditions. But we can't pretend everything. To create framework conditions, i.e. to enable businesses to carry out their entrepreneurship tasks, which they have to perform, and to communicate this to their employees, whether young or older or before retirement. I also believe that something will be essential, which we sometimes do not take sufficiently seriously: increased information and transparency regarding all the possibilities available for continuing training. The obsolete division between education and training should actually belong to history, and lifelong learning must be at the heart of life. If we are talking about continuing vocational training, I must say: I believe that too close initial training is certainly not a target. We must ask ourselves the question: What initial training do young people actually need? – We discuss it. We should bring more experience not only in the head, but also in the mechanical field. We need to talk about how education funding is to be done in the future – who pays what, how is allocated, how is it re-turned? – and also through a better education economy. The aim is to strengthen networking, and I believe that we all have to work on it. It must be accentuated, expertise should be paired with practice – sometimes it is very strong for me. I also believe that it is better not to lay down and lament so much, but to see that we are moving forward. Because 70 percent of jobs will change by the year 2000, and this requires more than ever a rethinking for all: for employers, entrepreneurs, for employees and also for the third side, the providers. If you see what is already going on abroad, I think that, although it is certainly not all understandable, there is a lot to be done. We must do something to change – Mr Oellinger has also mentioned this in the discussion – whether it be a Sabbath year – whether two or three months – whether it be working time flexibility, whether it be an annual working time model or much more in the direction of which we have been talking for a very long time, but which we have not yet implemented. This is, of course, also a little with the social partners - I say quite consciously - because it is necessary that something goes on. All of this would be put in place, and if we get a 1996 vocational training report for which we hope it will not be available almost a year later, then there would have to be some improvement in it, which is not satisfactory today. But I believe that this is only a matter of common interest, and if we are going to argue about how to secure apprenticeships or how vocational training, this will not really help anyone on the ground. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12848	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please. You've announced 6 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12870	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My first apprenticeship was retail, and my second job after the military was waiter. So I learned two occupations. I later took the instructor's examination and continuously train apprentices. I have quite a few successes from this time on and have achieved some very good results, so I know what I am talking about. Of course I also fully support the dual training system. I'd like to say: Many former Austrian apprentices are active throughout the world as managers, hotel directors, factory managers and the like, and these contribute to making the name Austria stand well around the world. One reason for Austria's relatively low youth unemployment is that a significant proportion of young people are still working in teaching occupations. However, it is worrying to see that the trend is on the contrary. In fact, it is terrifying that businesses that have always been happy and constantly trained apprentices are no longer ready to do so. This can not only be argued with an economic flute, there are already several other things that are playing along here, such as the framework conditions that simply do not vote. It will have to be tried in reasonable – and I stress, in reasonable – discussions to find solutions in this regard. Of course, for example, the working time system is a matter that needs to be carefully observed. It is heard that a good solution was found in the bakers, for example. It is not as it used to be, that the baker's students only came when the semitrailers had already been baked, they could only count them more into the basket and never have experienced how to make a semitrailer really right. I guess it couldn't have been. Similarly, the situation in the gastronomy, where, as mentioned today, the guests come, the gastronomy is filled – and the apprentices have to go. That can't be the right solution. But I would like to say one thing – and I really appeal to this House and also to the social partners: This is not a matter, ladies and gentlemen, for volume. This is an issue that makes it necessary for one to sit down – according to good Austrian manners and according to Austrian tradition – and talk to one another. The social partners should talk to each other and try to clarify the wishes of each other and find a means of finding a way in a good Austrian way. You should not cancel the other than class enemy or in any other form. That, I think, is not the right way, and success would be very modest if we tried in this way to solve the problem. It is also important to clarify the value of the apprentice and the skilled worker both to apprentices and to trainers. The row train, the cooking garment, the mason blouse are worth at least as much as tie and sacco. In fact, for a time it seemed that the apprentices were just those who could not be used for another profession: Then he makes a lesson! – It is really important to clarify this. It has already been sounded today – my colleague Marizzi has already said – what the higher schools cost and what an apprentice costs. It's just that, you have to say this: The time when you and apprentices have earned the big money is long over, otherwise the trend would not be the way it is now. I would also like to say something about the vocational school. Ladies and gentlemen! There is still the model of one-day vocational schooling on a case-by-case basis. I think this model is out. It is certainly the 10 week block teaching the better solution, and I think you should also strive for it. But to stay with the costs: An apprentice who goes to school for a day a week has no cost. One who goes to school for 10 weeks pays either the parents or the students themselves or the teacher 6 000 S to 8 000 S. This is, on average, the one and a half-time apprentice compensation. There would be a lot to say about this, and I would like to appeal to you again: I really ask for a quiet climate here, for serious discussions, which are borne by mutual understanding. I would also like to thank all apprentices for the courage to have chosen a teaching profession and for their patience among all the trainers. I wish them a success experience when they accompany a young person in vocational training and then see that he is a good successor in their industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12931	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please, you have the floor. Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12952	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Chinese are said to be very wise proverbs. And one of the wise sayings of the Chinese is: It doesn't matter if the cat is black or white: Mouse must be able to catch it. What does this have to do with apprenticeship problems? – I would like to say: It is no matter from which side you address this problem, from which side you see this problem, whether by the entrepreneurs, or by the apprentices: Satisfying solutions are needed for young people. And I think that all of the colleagues here have the same experience when there are desperate young people who do not find apprenticeships, apprenticeships, young people whose success experiences are limited. From time to time, you can help a youth. And I don't want to strip the word "damn duty" but I want to say: We have the sacred duty to give our young people optimism and opportunities for education! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a duty to give our young people the opportunity to develop themselves in the profession or in further training. And this is the whole issue. It is not just the task of companies, not just the businesses, but the whole society to give our young people the same objectives. The reasons why we are facing this problem, which is much less tragic in relation to other countries – as already mentioned – than elsewhere, are different, and a black and white painting would be wrong. Some causes have already been mentioned. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== I would just like to inform you of some of what the apprentices have said that it has been better heard. There are no huge demands, there are only small accents there and there that need to be set – even in the optics, also in chemistry: a further increase in the attractiveness of teaching. And examples show that apprentices have also brought it to Director-Generals. It is important to improve vocational information so that young people do not always opt for just a few classical apprenticeships, the development of new careers, especially in the fields of high-tech and information technologies, a research into the protection provisions for apprentices, regulations only where they are really necessary in the interests of apprentices. They should be amended where protection provisions have been covered and a good place of training prevented. That's what the apprentices say on their own. And I have a press release here, which says: I am not allowed to do some work at all or only under supervision. At the end of the teaching period, however, I am expected to be able to work independently, explains an installer apprentice. – This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen! We must also find reasonable rules in the field of apprenticeship protection. My predecessor, Mr Kiermaier, has already mentioned the gastronomy sector: The cellar farmer of the brewery Ried told me: I'm annoyed. I have apprentices who have to go home at 10 am, and then I see them going home at 3 or 4 pm from the disco. These are the conditions under which today's courses are offered. There is also talk of rethinking, in the direction that apprentices may work if it requires the business of the holding – in all the workers' protection that is necessary. The curriculum needs to be updated – that is, the apprentices too. The apprentices should learn only what they can actually do in the professional life. And during the whole debate, ladies and gentlemen, we must not overlook the different abilities. It can't be everyone studying, it can't be any craftsman, it can't take every job. Everyone should take up the profession for which he has acquired the skills. And that is why the question of the general foreign language system for teaching firms is also only to be seen relatively, because there are exactly which – we know – are difficult to learn with the learning of languages. No foreign language should be imposed on them. This may be the best roofer there can be, but it's hard to learn. I believe that consideration must also be given to these characteristics. Therefore, there is no brush haircut across the teaching professions, but individual attention to the respective situation. At the end of my remarks, let me make a request – it is also related to the apprenticeships –: the introduction of the moped driver's license from 15 years of age. For Vienna, this is probably not a topic, since apprentices can reach any educational area by metro, tram, public transport. But in rural areas – and this is also a call for the apprentices – where there is no public transport, where there are no jobs at the place of residence, apprentices depend on taking someone in the car – or they have to drive themselves. And it would be a great help especially for rural areas if Mr. Federal Minister Scholten could finally get through to help break through the request that has been here in Parliament for a long time, namely permission to drive mopeds for a year - to 15 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Two years!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a modest, small, but in some things very effective measure. And I can say that last week our socialist councillor, Ackerl, from Upper Austria, also spoke in a gymnasium where I was there, vehemently called for the reduction of the age for the moped driver's license to 15 years. And he has said that he will use the Federal Minister Scholten to ensure that this is also introduced. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: 14 years!]] I hope he does. We would have solved a small problem.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13018	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please. 6 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13040	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think one thing was very clear from all the words: The situation is really dramatic. Only more than 40 percent of a year learn an apprenticeship. And I believe that in the light of all the differences in views, we should consider once again what this has created and how we can solve the problems. But I can't spare you one question: Did you notice that no one mentioned this popular, popular slogan "Careers with Teaching"? [[Abg. Meisinger: That's what has been said!]] I think this is a sign that you too do not believe so much in the career of teaching. And I am telling you, as an example, how I have been in the country several times, in a region that is economically disadvantaged. That's where young people tell me: Your politicians always say, do a lesson, we need qualified workers, continue training! And now we tell you what situation we find: We need to see that we get a place at all. Whether this is the teaching profession that is really fun or the one we want to learn is not certain. Secondly, You're telling me to continue my education. The fact is, however, that at best the boss employs a master, but at most two, three companions and a few apprentices. I can continue my education as much as I want – I have no chance to make a career. Another example: A very successful entrepreneur has drawn my attention to the problem that the HTL would very much like him for further training courses. The problem lies in what payment he gets for this course, because his master's exam, his qualification is very low there. And we know that when a master hits the official career, he first ends up in d and at best comes to c. – I think ladies and gentlemen, these are very well things we need to question, and we should see how we can improve the situation. I also accept the report, Mr Federal Minister, which is very significant to me: A third of the apprentices change the professional group after a short period of time. More than half leave the apprenticeship after a short period of time. – Ladies and gentlemen, this has reasons, and I think that all that is presented to us in some way is not the right way. Mr Puttinger said quite right today, but his emotional fight speech was probably intended for a meeting in the Chamber of Commerce. Almost everyone says at the speaker's desk: We must not argue that the apprentices are too expensive, but in reality everyone says that apprentices are too expensive! The fact is that in the case of a survey - I took it - 58 percent, just over half of the entrepreneurs say: I don't hire any more apprentices because the training is too expensive. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's a lot! Consider: 58 percent!]] But we know from experience that in many teaching professions an apprentice in the second year of teaching is a full force. It was addressed to the vocational school. My previous speaker said that the curriculum was finally untapped. – I assume that you are not very much concerned with this question. I'm a professional school teacher. We are at this stage... Yes, Mr. Ofner, I have heard it, but in the 1940s. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I was an apprentice!]] Something happened in the meantime. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Until the 1950s! But the Mollar school has already been established!]] We work a lot in the area of school. - But back to the subject. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also always said that vocational schooling is too long, but only a third of the entrepreneurs actually criticise it. I mean, and this is a very essential point for me, we have to address the question of apprentices in a more serious way. When Mr. Piskati from the Chamber of Commerce in the "Kurier" says – I quote –: "We have to make the entrepreneurs want and mood to train apprentices," I wonder if apprenticeship training is for you a question of lust and mood or a question of self-sustaining for the economy and employment situation in Austria. I also wonder how to judge the statement of an entrepreneur who goes here and says: What does a Maurer English and Citizen need to do? – These are positions for me, ladies and gentlemen, which give a shocking picture. Nevertheless, I would like this debate on the apprenticeship report not to end in pit struggles. The essential and objective thing for me is that social partnership negotiations are conducted, with reason and with a sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13125	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please. Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13146	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On the vocational training report and on the situation of apprentices. Mr Schwamlein! The apprentices had and have the possibility of career. We must recognize this and make some improvements. I should like to remind you that, especially in Austria, teaching has a tradition and skill. The dual vocational training system is not only nationally in our country, but also internationally biggest successes. The report points to this. The Austrian apprentices won a lot of prizes at competitions, medals were handed over to them. We can rightly be proud of this training and of our apprentices who are willing to learn and train a profession. We have also made the education system transparent and installed specialist matura and technical college so that apprenticeship training is not a one-way street, but rather prospects for more education in order to be able to prove itself on the labour market. Youth unemployment has been countered accordingly in our country. In one speaker or another, I thought: Please, what is he talking about? Only that one cannot accommodate the apprentices and no one can choose the profession. – I mean, the opposite was always the case. There were plenty of apprenticeships there. The youth was able to choose the apprenticeship after their inclination, and the economy was happy when enough apprentices were there. In recent times, there has been a change that has to be observed, but in recent decades this has certainly been different. I should like to remind you of the fact that the skilled workers' potential has led to the establishment of plant sites and site fortresses. Because of the apprentices who were willing to take up an appropriate profession, businesses have established themselves. I would like to point out with pride that we in Steyr BMW were particularly interested in years ago, because we knew that there are enough skilled skilled workers who can look back on a successfully completed teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As disastrous as the situation is presented here today, it really is not, long not. We are also a little – and I would like to point out this very briefly – even because the teaching of attractiveness has lost that the social importance of the apprentice is a lesser one. Have we not always said to our youth that manual work would not be the right thing for everyone to go to higher schools in order to have a corresponding value in society? We didn't say: You're supposed to have it better, and you mean, Go to school as long as you can, that's for you and for us the very best!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Well, we have to come in front of our own door, too. But it is our task not only to change the attractiveness of apprenticeship training in this House, but everyone in their place. Ladies and gentlemen! We have risks and negative developments to see and discuss accordingly. It can only be our primary task to counter youth unemployment, and this intention, I think, has been recognized by each of today's speakers. There is not only the lack of apprenticeships, but there are also apprenticeships where teachers would still be free. Unfortunately, we have the situation that not every apprentice accepts the post which becomes free, and that both female and male apprentices focus on a few occupations, and not on tourism, in the hospitality, in the construction industry, in order to list a few things – because there are still free teaching places here. Ladies and gentlemen! The state has overregulated and meant that it must protect the apprentice, and of course it has built up obstacles for the training company. I think we have protected the apprentice almost to death under the rule. Today's situation hinders training, it makes it difficult for the tradesmen, the training firms, but also the apprentice in his will for work, in his need to obtain appropriate training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a consequence, a special support system should not be created again, given thought should be given to whom the promotion is being given, and any person should redistribute this funding, all of which pay. I mean, we have to remove the obstacles, we have to relieve ourselves, we have to unravel, we have all those free space that an apprentice wants to take in, and also those young people who want to undergo apprenticeship training. We must leave the apprentices to the equipment, to the machines and not hinder them. We must flexible working hours and make it possible to work a little longer if, for example, the summer time in the hospitality sector appears necessary. A survey by the Linz Market Institute clearly states: 67 percent want to decide for themselves whether to do overtime or not. The apprentices want to work. They also want to improve the compensation for apprentices. It should not all be regulated by the state and the training rather hindered. The co-insurance with the parents seems to me to be very, very reasonable for a time. However, we must be careful that there is no deterioration in the situation of apprentices, but that retirement periods are acquired. It is also an important measure which must not be lost. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw particular attention to the compensation for apprentices. There are of course also well-paid apprentices. Especially in the metalworking industry, it has again succeeded in achieving an increase in compensation. However, there are also apprenticeships where apprentice compensation is extremely low. In these cases, we really need to speak of an increase. I would like to stress this in this connection. I would also like to support the mofa ride from 15 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen! The report must be taken note of, and we are called upon to produce such consequences. The Austrian People's Party has a corresponding demand catalogue here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13238	Mr Farnleitner has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13259	Mr President. High house! Several ladies and gentlemen, quite specifically, Mr Marizzi, have referred to the three-point programme and have asked questions in this regard. As far as the government side is concerned, I would like to say that the point relating to appropriate measures regarding the capacity of apprenticeships training about the needs has already been fulfilled in the meantime. In this context, I would like to mention that, in accordance with a regulation signed by me two days ago, a training attempt is being launched in accordance with § 8a of the Vocational Training Act, which allows several professional qualifications to be acquired during a teaching period. This Regulation has already entered into force. With regard to the third point, namely the joint development of current conditions for apprenticeships – which has also been referred to very often – I would like to note that the experts of both houses used the summer. In a few days or, as I hope, in two weeks, we will go into the review with appropriate legislative or legislative drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13297	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A final word is not wanted by the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the Economic Committee's request to take note of this 1995 vocational training report by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs (III-11 of the Supplements). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this report to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The report was adopted by a majority. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 332 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been adopted by a large majority. 10. Point Report by the Economic and Social Committee on Amendment No 136/A (E) by Mr Helmut Haigermoserand others on the abolition of registration fees in the Chamber of Commerce (246 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13362	Now we reach the 10th. Agenda item: Report by the Economic and Social Committee on Amendment No 136/A (E) by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades on the abolition of registration fees in the Chamber of Commerce (246 of the Supplements). No one has reported himself as rapporteur. It has therefore been waived of oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hofmann. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. 11 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13389	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The registration fee, formerly the inclusion fee, must not only be removed in the opinion of the liberals, but also in the opinion of the young entrepreneurs. That is why this request has been submitted. It has always been clear that it is only lip recognition by the Federal Chamber of Commerce that a founding offensive is being spoken of. It'll be different. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the ÖVP, the Chamber of Commerce, the Economics Federation – Mr. Federal Minister! You're from this area! – have announced this business start-up offensive several times. The fact is, however, that the person who decides to enter the life of a trader and to make himself independent is experiencing a barrier by the fact that he is required to pay 5 000 S per section at the beginning of the business cycle, if he wants to practice several trades, of course multiplied accordingly, to the Federal Chamber of Commerce. Ladies and gentlemen! The young entrepreneurs of today who want to help you to take this step into self-employment are those who create and secure tomorrow's jobs. In this context, you, ladies and gentlemen, have the opportunity to ensure that trade access is at least facilitated. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the Chamber of Commerce and the Federal Economics! So learn to deal with the money of the future members and, of course, with the money of the former members with a little more care and a little more sensitivity! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I know that this is not always very easy for you. I know the almost endless story with the external trade promotion contributions, of which you all know that you are sitting here, have been illegally removed, and unlawfully after the findings of the VfGH in 1993. That is to say, the external trade promotion contributions have been cancelled, and the VfGH called for the reimbursement of these contributions from the Ministry of Finance. This should, of course, be done by the Chamber of Commerce to the Ministry of Finance, since it is not clear that these contributions, which are unlawfully withdrawn, should be an additional burden on taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore accept a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haigermoser, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principality and Mr Böhacker on the urgency of reimbursing the foreign trade promotion contributions which have been wrongly retained. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can put appropriate measures here in the house to realize what you announce outside and promise the people. Do it!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13466	That of Deputies of the Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann's request, read and duly supported, is included in the proceedings. The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. Speech time: 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13491	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I could put the motto "emitting the child with the bath" about the desire of the representatives of the FPÖ to abolish the registration fees of the sections of the Chambers of Commerce. The starting point – I am thinking in a positive sense – was certainly your reflection on the low level of self-employed people in Austria. On this point I agree with you that changes are necessary. We have more than 3.2 million employees in Austria, 653,000 of whom work in the public service alone. Only 250 000 active entrepreneurs face this army. – For comparison: In Switzerland or Sweden it is 400 000, in the Netherlands and in Belgium 800 000. Therefore, changes are certainly necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! To be a businessman, however, begins in the head. Company start-ups certainly do not fail to pay 5 000 s. Rather, we need a change of attitude: Away from the thinking of the official state to a more risky economic orientation. It is necessary to remove a number of bureaucratic obstacles. The obstacles to business start-ups are so high that they seem to be left only by the hardest and most persistent, according to the motto: Only the hardest ones get through. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I therefore agree with you that changes are necessary. It does nothing if a ten-year anniversary is already celebrated in Portugal, while the first machines begin to run with us. It is not about the 5 000 S inclusion fee that you refer to here. Much more would help young entrepreneurs, for example, to take over a farm if they were to have a breathing break of for example five years for newly-appointed conditions or if they had a shorter authority procedure available to them. In any case, we demand and will make changes from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! I would like to thank you today and here for your proposals in this respect and for your preparatory work. Now on another subject to be dealt with. In this context, one should not be turned off, but rather discuss openly: The pepper beings are driving great flowers. According to a study by the University of Linz, Pfusserheins already have a share of 7 percent of the Austrian gross domestic product. This share will increase to 8 percent next year. Where is equal opportunities for industrial enterprises, which have to pay taxes, taxes and social security contributions? But now back to the motto of the liberals: pour out the child with the bath. I am pleased to see in you all, ladies and gentlemen, all of you, in the process of red tape reduction. However, I am not to have for dubious applications. It is typical for the F representatives that they make proposals without at least breaking their heads about how they can be realized. This is, of course, a privilege of opposition! You can afford that! You don't need to be straight! However, I cannot take you seriously on this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] I cannot take you seriously, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, if you ask 40 million schilling for additional burdens within the framework of a budget! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] I cannot take you seriously if you repeatedly demand the abolition of the drinking tax and have no cover for the communities, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I cannot take you seriously if you call for the abolition of enrollment fees without considering how the sections, in which your representatives are also sitting, should be financed at all because they depend on this financing component. In trade, for example, they are – Mr Haigermoser should know better or best! – absolutely dependent on these revenues. There are many areas that finance 40, 45 or 50 percent from this area. If you tell me how different this is, I'd be happy to discuss it at any time. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The figures speak volumes, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals. So I have a request to you: Please inform yourself before submitting a request. They claim, for example, that registration fees in all sections amount to 5 000 S. – On the other hand, I can tell you: They are between 500 S and 2 000 S, and only in one case do they amount to 5 000 S. It may already be that the amount of 5 000 s is very high, but I still ask you: Don't generalize! We are used to this by you, but as an economic representative, I can also request it from your party in the sense of the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! If you generalize, then... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] I believe you do. I've heard people yelling many times. If you generalize, that's your right. But my right is – and you must accept that – to correct your claims!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13591	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13612	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dr. Puttinger! The only thing that bothers you is that you don't pay an invading fee. I understand! [[Cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] I mean... yeah, yeah. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: No taxes, no social insurance!]] But really to your heart only the escape of the admission fee! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Who says that?]] It is quite surprising when you tell us that the departments of trade finance up to 50 per cent of the inclusion fees. This means that they only live on the fact that as many as possible go into bankruptcy and lock up again, because in this way admission fees come in. But now, to the point of the matter: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, you are sitting here in great density. You need 6.7 billion schilling every year – in words: 6 700 million schilling! – to represent the interests of entrepreneurs as bad as is the case in Austria. If at least the framework conditions would be good for the money we give you if we could say at least: We entrepreneurs in Austria live like in a paradise, as we spend 6 700 million schillings a year so that you can represent us!, he would still be quite representing this effort. – But that is not the case! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] It is rather true that we have the third highest labour costs, that we have to regret a lot of bureaucracy et cetera. Do you want 6 700 million schilling a year to gain the power of the ÖVP? – However, the interests of the ÖVP are not the interests of Austrian entrepreneurs. There are still a few "irrigated" entrepreneurs who are not at the ÖVP. In fact, the party policy has nothing to do with companies at all. They consume 6 700 million schillings a year to supposedly represent the interests of entrepreneurs! This is the point we are discussing here. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's the inclusion fee!]] The enrollment fee is only one of four sources of income you have, of which – as you know very well – you only disclose two to your members. The invading fee must be paid with a certificate of deposit. Hardly a company is born, flees!, gets it an act of surrender. You could send at least one letter, in which you write: We are pleased that you have come to the world! Then, on a regular basis, it is fair and proper to pay a basic fee which the section will charge. In addition, however, 90 percent of entrepreneurs do not know this at all – the KU 2 of the additional wage costs. - Do I hear it right? The Chamber of Commerce is financed by the additional wage costs? – Mr. Dr. Heindl, that can't be at all! The Chamber of Commerce is against the extra wage costs! It is impossible to finance itself from the extra wage costs! And then there's a couple of proms coming from the front tax. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: What does it mean to be "clumsy"?]] You don't even have the courage to tell your members what you really cash from them! Letter Once a year, you will send your members a letter saying: Dear Entrepreneur! You paid me again this year: Admission fee, basic charge, KU 1, KU 2, that makes a total of so much. Are we worth it to you? Are we doing such a good job? Do we provide the members with such good services that it is worth it to them? Again: 6 700 million schilling a year for the interests of entrepreneurs in Austria is simply too much. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Save it! Work It's economic! Send the sections home! Layer over in your house! Once in your company, determine what we find in our company every day: that we have to save costs! [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is demagogy!]] That's not a demagogy! I know the club too well for that. They have sections: These are public law entities. There are also the trade associations and the sections. You can break your head over how you create new structures. However, you will not create new structures for so long as you know that every year you get 6 700 million schilling on the table of the house. Under these circumstances, you will never be pressured to work economically. A few brief remarks: I've had the honour of listening to long section lines. But I never understood why there are sections. The sections are completely obsolete. The sections have a very important role, the trade unions are important institutions. However, it is probably the only function of the sections at federal and national level to take care of the sections so that they do not make any sense to swim against the mainstream that is to be found in the Chamber of Commerce. Save it! 6 700 million are too many! And the abolition of the enrollment fee is the first step!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13727	I call Mr Heindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13749	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are discussing a motion for a resolution by the Liberals on registration fees. In reality, however, it is more about, and I also believe that the whole excitement leads in a wrong direction. I believe that, in fact, everyone in this House wants to see more people working entrepreneurship, and if we want to do so seriously, we must find that it is not the registration fee. On this point I fully agree with Mr Puttinger: A change of consciousness is important. Mr Puttinger! But I have to say something: I also believe that the mental attitude must first change. However, if we leave everything the way it is now – even if we do not want to – this is also a topic. And it's not just the registration fee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Dear colleague Haigermoser! You know it very well. There is a large number of costs to be paid in advance, and that is why, at the last Economic Committee meeting, we asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to examine all the costs associated with access to trade and to check what costs can be eliminated. Because these costs are higher than 500 S or 1 000 S or 5 000 S. I mean exam taxes, course fees, registration forms. I mean the obstacle to the authorities. That's what it's all about! As was said at the last debate on the first reading of the Liberals' request: We want a radical cure, and a radical cure is not just a change of consciousness and deregulation. Rather, the entire cost question must also be clarified. This is only possible within the framework of an overall package, and we want to do so as soon as possible. I said last time: I'd love it if we had it. In this context, however, the issue of registration fees is very small. We want an overall reform, which will encourage many Austrians to take part in entrepreneurship. But we have to eliminate a lot, not just the registration fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13797	Mr Haigermoser has now come to speak. Deputies! Your group still has 7 minutes of total speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13818	Mr Puttinger! They have said that the will to be a businessman must be stuck in the minds. There is an open letter from Mr. Günther Gerwein from Linz, 18th century. September 1996, which was also addressed to the Chamber, and interestingly, it says literally: "In the week of establishment of the Chamber of Commerce, which was set up by the Chamber of Commerce under the titled '96, it is precisely this Chamber that it opposes the provision of forbearance granted to me by the Department of Transport of the State of Upper Austria." That is to say, it is prevented by the board that, although the authority has exercised forbearance, someone makes himself independent! This man obviously does not want the board even the inclusion fee! In this case, you only want to stop an entrepreneur from doing business! [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] So this is the offensive Maderthans that there should be 55 000 new entrepreneurs right away! One sends 44-year-old Günther Gerwein as unmedial to the unemployed. Although this does not improve statistics, the Chamber has peace, and there is less competition. – These are facts, and the one presented is not an individual case, but one can experience this every day, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we have to proclaim this sad story here, unfortunately, to God! We could now talk about the practice in the context of the trade regulation. It has long been tried by many reasonable people in this house to improve something. But nothing happens, it's just walled. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really putting my points at the pace: What is the cost of setting up a GesmbH in Austria in relation to the costs of such a foundation in Germany? You always have to compare the same thing: In Austria, such a foundation costs 118 330 S, in the Federal Republic the creation of a same company costs a total of 8 350 S. – I am grateful for this call for call! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But these are not the cost of the chamber!]] The registration fee – or enrollment fee, as it is called in the Volksmund in Austria – is 20 000 S and in the Federal Republic of Germany null Schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's not true! There's no such thing as that!]] You don't pay anything there! In Austria, however, 20 000 S are disbursed! When we present this to the Chamber of Commerce, however, we get to hear: What are you up to? For example, a high-ranking chief of ingenuity, like the head of the trade union for freight transport, Mr. Moser from Stockerau, says: "The one who is not willing to pay the admission fee" – it says in the Minutes – "he shall leave it!" He says: If anyone enters a tennis club or a golf club today, he's ready to pay 50,000 s to 150 000 s for registration fees, but he doesn't want to pay for anything with us! Then he'll have to leave it at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger! It really has to play something in the heads, but in a different direction, in an offensive direction! It must not remain with the so stoned, softened, cuckolded gingerhead work! That's counterproductive! Haven't you recognized that yet, colleague Puttinger? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's from the back forest! But unfortunately this is not an individual case of God, but one goes seamlessly to the other. Resolutions are being taken by these concerned entrepreneurs, for example, in the field of commerce, crafts and crafts. September: The mandates and officials of the Chamber of Commerce – you too, Mr Puttinger, Mr Stummvoll! – "is urgently asked to take legislative initiatives to ensure that the current contract regime is removed without replacement." This also belongs to this package: In the minds, the business must take place. But what are you doing in this house? – You vote against the interests of your own chamber officials! Ladies and gentlemen! There it becomes clear where the rabbit is in the pepper! You're on the wrong trip. They depend on different concreteists – so I would like to formulate it now – and are not willing to implement the entrepreneurship offensive you are talking about in your Sunday speeches. That's the problem! They say that 5 000 S is not a problem, it costs much more to join a golf club, and abroad it is much worse. With us, all this is palette. But with a taxi driver who wants to make himself independent, you can't wall off and you're not willing to let him practice his business and free him from unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. That's duality, that's a policy of disbelief! You don't need to point out to the liberals at all! Once again you have been caught up in fresh deed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I conclude by saying: The Bad Conscience... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] Mr Heindl! I am grateful for the idea that a resolution of the coalition has been tabled in the Committee on your behalf. However, most do not know what this motion for a resolution says. It is admitted that the admission fee is also an obstacle to self-employment. That's what it says: "This inclusion fee causes a total of high costs, which are a great financial burden for young entrepreneurs. A reform of access conditions also requires a review of the cost of entry into business." However, four months have passed since the decision on this request. What happened? – The Federal Minister will certainly not be able to tell us that he has already been active. Or will you teach me a better one now, Mr. Federal Minister? When do you want to be active on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day or not at all? Admit color! We do not stop you from becoming offensive, to clear up stumbling blocks on the way to becoming self-employed, so that we really come to a founding offensive and a discharge from entrepreneurs. Start with yourself and the Chamber of Commerce! You will learn to sweat and fear every now and then in connection with the KU 1 due to the processes that your own members lead!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13896	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are thus entering into the voting procedure concerning the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 246 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. Thank you. That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 246 of the Supplements. I also ask for a corresponding sign in the case of your consent. – This is once again the majority. Accepted. (E 25.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades on the urgency of refunding the foreign trade contributions which have been wrongly retained. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this motion to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Thomas Barmüller and comrades on heat and power concentrations (245 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13970	We now come to item 11 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Barmüller and comrades with regard to heat and power concentrations (245 of the supplements). There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Please, honourable Member. You have one minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14000	From a liberal point of view, we certainly agree with the proposal to strengthen the use of combined heat and power. This makes ecological sense, it is useful and energy-efficient. This can achieve appropriate efficiency improvements. I would like to say a few words about this: Austrian caloric power plants have an efficiency of 30 to 42 percent, with the use of combined heat and power is expected to be 80 to 85 percent. It is very negative to note that the eco tax, which is not an eco-tax, is a budget hole tax, and I also do not want to miss out on addressing the regulation of energy supply remuneration in the near future, a problem that you know needs to be treated and a reasonable solution to be added. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14035	Mr Oberhaidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14057	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed this motion for a resolution within the committee, and I have already pointed out that the statement made in the introduction to this motion for a resolution, Mr Barmüller, namely the reference to the Toronto Agreement signed by the Federal Government, is not correct. There is no Toronto Agreement signed by the Austrian Federal Government. It is rather true that a scientific conference held in Toronto stated that reducing CO2 emissions by 20 percent by 2005 would be a desirable goal. We Austrians themselves have imposed this objective, as mentioned in the last energy report. In the discussion on the Energy Charter Protocol, which we have already decided in the House, energy efficiency and related environmental aspects are discussed, and it is explicitly pointed out that support and promotion of combined heat and power are an important measure to increase energy efficiency. We know that the increase in energy efficiency is accompanied by a reduction in CO2 emissions in Austria. In this context, the Austrian CO2 Commission speaks of a 1.2 percent reduction, which is accepted. The motion for a resolution therefore calls for feed-in conditions. I would like to point out what I have already said in this context: My group will intervene with the Minister for Economic Affairs to extend the existing General Agreement until we can redefine the feed-in system in an energy organisation law. I believe that we should also consider the issue of combined heat and power in this context. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that there is a need for a resolution of our own. We will therefore not agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14093	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14114	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oberhaidinger! The introduction has rightly been criticized by you on this point. Thank God we do not decide to justify the request, but only the text of the resolution. And this text refers to increased use of combined heat and power. We did not just say that, ladies and gentlemen, this is actually the state of the discussion here in the house, and it is – I refer to it again – also expressive in the National Environmental Plan. Ladies and gentlemen! On page 123, for example, programmes for the renovation of thermal building quality and for the dissemination of thermal power technologies deserve first priority – not second or third, no, first priority! It is also written on page 123 of the NUP that in the thermal use of energy as far as possible the use of heat-power technologies is to be expected. Mr Oberhaidinger! With regard to the extension of the voluntary general agreement on the feed-in directive or the remunerations, the National Environmental Plan – already consulted by the government parties here in the house, as I hope, is already assigned to us by the government – states: In many cases, these are institutional barriers, such as non-binding feed-back tariffs in public networks, which hinder these innovative energy technologies, namely the combined heat and power. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear what the problems are: The renewable energy sources are not used to the extent that it is desired by the Federal Government as it is by you. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, and you have not yet been able to explain to me how it can be explained to me that, although you give these confessions in thick reports, then, for example, in the Structural Adjustment Act, you decide an blatant disadvantage on renewable energy sources by substituting the electricity tax, without asking yourself whether it is not in your credibility, without asking yourself whether this is not all that you want to bring in here and decide in the government, before it has been discussed here in the house at all. Mr Oberhaidinger! I am sorry, but your reason for rejecting the request is not substantially justified, and I assure you today that the new Energy Organisation Act of Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister of Energy, will have a smear about renewable energy sources and their preference for the purpose of maintaining negative effects on the environment. There will be nothing in it to favour renewable energy sources, for example, to reduce our foreign dependence on energy supply. It must be the joint director and tell you that hydroelectric power plants in Austria are no longer economic. But in Austria the biomass is constantly refused, and with this one refuses to allow agriculture, farmers in Austria an additional income. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, is known to you, but you're not doing anything. That is exactly what your credibility holds in the eyes of many Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! You should also implement what you promised in the National Environmental Plan. This is an opportunity; I see it is another missed opportunity for you. I assume that it will not be the last one, because I assure you that we will not rest until we finally have those conditions for renewable energy sources in Austria, biomass, biogas, wind energy, solar energy use, which prevent environmental pollution, our agriculture, farmers an additional income, so that we can finally achieve increased security of supply and greater independence from energy imports in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14169	Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14190	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Barmüller has just given us the National Environmental Plan. . It is actually surprising, Mr Barmüller, that you ask us to decide what the Federal Government has already defined in the National Environmental Plan. So it's reckless what you're demanding of us, and I'm telling you: The Austrian People's Party could and cannot accept the Liberal Forum's request. I do not want to say that he is bad, on the contrary. It is even well meant, but it is very helpful in the situation in which Austria is located. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would not only like to see this being done but also to justify it. The previous achievements of the Austrian companies in terms of CO2 reduction can be seen both nationally and internationally in any way. The situation today is that a single plant abroad causes more CO2 emissions than the sum of Austrian plants. We have to find out here. It is also to be asked the question of competitiveness, because from a certain rate each percent more CO2 reduction is very noticeable. The second reason, Mr Barmüller: In many areas of industry, combined heat and power are going on and on. In the Austrian steel industry 62 percent of electricity consumption comes from own production, in the paper industry it is more than 53 percent, in the chemical industry more than 20 percent. But I admit that there are certain obstacles. On the one hand, these are the feed-in rates, you're right. In Carinthia we have set an example: With us, a kilowatt hour of photovoltaics is paid 10 s – but with a limit up, because EVUs cannot endure a certain limitlessness. [[Abg. Wabl: Investment grant?]] But I have to say, Mr Barmüller, that the biggest problem is not the legal side, not the government, but the guarantee of supply. In order to ensure the security of supply, parallel systems must be run. I can tell you this because I am from a municipality in Austria that has been operating a heat-heating plant for three years. And I know the problems very, very well. I therefore know exactly what I am talking about. The third reason: The combined heat and power also means a total changeover of the Austrian system. It is a decentralised system, and supply and consumption have to be coordinated again. This is linked to the seasonally different offer and therefore requires a system changeover throughout the sector. We believe that a system change should only take place in the same way as the EU. It is known to you that from 1st century onwards. A new directive on the electricity market in the EU will apply in January 1997, and for this reason, Federal Minister Farnleitner will also submit a corresponding electricity organisation law for Austria next year following the entry into force of this Directive. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Wurmitzer, how about the 10 s?]] We will make every effort to push for the objectives of combined heat and power and to further increase the efficiency of the primary energy used. [[Abg. Wabl: How's the 10 s?]] If you find that there is an information deficit here, I must say: It may be that this deficit exists in the Liberal Forum – at least it is not recognizable for the government parties. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: So you will agree to the request?]] Mr Barmüller, I would like to give you additional hours on these questions, because I come from a municipality in Austria which has an energy concept that will make it fully self-sufficient in Bälden. So we know each other, and precisely because we know each other, we cannot agree to your request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14281	Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14303	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We have already held this debate, even in the last plenary debates. I have only a very modest request in this debate: Ignore You do not, Mr Farnleitner and Mr Bartenstein, tell yourself what you think about this issue. I'm asking you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14330	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We hereby enter into the voting procedure on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 245 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the restructuring of family transfers (233 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14376	Finally, we come to item 12 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Dr Kier and comrades on the restructuring of family transfers (233 of the supplements). There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14407	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period, I would like to take the shortest possible opportunity. I recognize from the course of the sitting and the arrangement of the agenda that this issue certainly could not have been discussed seriously today. This is not such a special thing, we have already experienced on other occasions that, if we make proposals on matters, they will only be discussed reluctantly. Nevertheless, a comment on the matter: The aim of our motion for a resolution was to enforce every child's right to a minimum of existence, in other words to improve the social security of transfers paid in money in the family sector. Everyone knows the distribution studies, everyone knows the problem of horizontal distribution justice. That's a part of it. The result of this request was that he was first played and played around between the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Family Affairs and then voted down more or less dissatisfaction. I therefore assume that even today's vote in the negative committee report will find the sufficient majority of governments. I therefore believe that the best thing that can be done is to take note of the fact that this will be so, and (b) to re-establish this initiative, which I say quite consciously, of course, modified and, in particular, based on the fact that, in the meantime, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance and other members of the Federal Government have indicated, it is a fact that the transfer services in this area, which is dependent on income, will also begin to be imaginable for them. I mean, it would be bitter and urgently necessary for us to finally decide where real poverty prevails and where the precarious conditions are already crying out to heaven, not only to pay small amounts, but significant amounts, so that a minimum of existence is available to every child, for which powerful parents can come up to a large extent or to the fullest, but not to less powerful parents at all. And they don't help these linear payments. It is a false access to equality, if you think that you can redeem it by paying everyone the same, without regard to the environment. We believe that each child should have the same basic minimum of existence, taking advantage of the capacity of the environment and, of course, of course, using the community of solidarity. I think this idea will prevail. That is why we will have today's voting statement as it stands and we will reword our initiative to re-open the discussion. We have also learned on other occasions: Only when you are persistent in some questions do you move something, and we look forward to your voice with sadness, but also with serenity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14458	Mrs Dr Mertel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14479	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! – Deputy Kier! You already have in your speech from 18th. April 1996 – if you would give me your inclined ear, I could answer what you said – complain that the Liberal Forum proposal will not be addressed. There is no proposal, only one request that remains guilty of many questions. But first of all, I would like to make four points: Fact & at least: Austria is in the family promotion in the Austrian, no, in the top European field. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the Austrian peak field, you're right!]] If you were always as accurate and could listen to your own choice of words, then you would notice that this is sometimes cabaret strip. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fact two: In 1995 and 1996, structural adjustment was necessary, due to the extension of social and family policies, and the family compensation fund has become deficient. Deficit means debt, debt at the general budget, and debt must be repaid. This means that FLAF has significant structural problems. We also have a fact three, namely the rapid structural change of the family. Every third marriage is divorced, every fifth family is a single parent family, and new family forms are created. Today it is in the "Kurier" that the number of singles grows rapidly. The fourth fact is that we are increasingly facing the phenomenon of new poverty. In the opinion of many experts, particularly vulnerable are single-parents, low-income single-earners and low-income multiple-child families. These are facts, and it is clear from this that there is a need for reform and regulation in the field of family policy promotion. We also have a new situation due to a decision of the Constitutional Court for a complaint. This complaint will lead to a review of the tax aspects of family support, and I would like to touch on that. In my opinion, it is extremely difficult to take out only one aspect, namely the tax aspect, and to demand a tax reform. In spite of all the reform efforts, it is necessary to say that, in the case of a reform, all the benefits are to be seen, the whole package must be considered, namely all the benefits available to the family. These would be transfers, tax measures, social security benefits, benefits and benefits of the countries and municipalities. It cannot be our objective, however, that, if family promotion is to be reformed, the service providers will benefit even more than the less well-deserved. On the contrary, the lowest incomes have to be at the heart of the reform, it must be the focus of the reform that takes account of the social and economic situation of the individual family in the form of individual benefits, of course, while maintaining individual taxation. If, therefore, Mr Kier, in his speech in April 1996, spoke about the principle of foundry – which is at all a standard statement of the Liberal Forum – and referred to the application for the study of the Economic Research Institute, he has joined where the public has repeatedly shown that the burden balance between the childless and those who have children is not sufficient. The opposite is the case. The study by the Economic Research Institute, which is already before Parliament and will be discussed in the financial committee in the next few days, expressly stresses that family compensation is dominated by family support, and it assesses the family support system in the direction of vertical redistribution, i.e. from top to bottom. Only in certain sub-areas is the redistribution from the bottom to the top, namely through the age group of the family and through the duration of the training. Now to your request, Mr Kier, on the request of the Liberal Forum. There's also a mistake with you: You see only a part of the funding. They only take out a part, i.e. family allowances, and leave the overall view of the service catalogue. In my view, this is a somewhat unforgivable request, he remains guilty of a lot. They do not define in the application what You understand it under the minimum of existence for each child. They do not define the annual net income available. They also do not explain how to deal with your proposal, which means an above-average administrative burden and is very cost-intensive. In addition, your request for value is lost because it has not actually provided detailed calculations, and it is also not clear how your model will escape an opposition from the Constitutional Court. Another question: They want to create a new family fund. How to finance is to be done, you leave this question open. I also believe that a new fund is not the right way to solve structural problems. Nevertheless, I am confident that in the next few months, after we have held thorough and thorough discussions, we will come to a sensible solution in the interests of the family. But I would like to emphasize one thing here and today: Reform is not a synonym for additional financial burdens on the public sector. The aim of a reform can only be more social balance and more efficient use of resources. By taking greater account of the economic situation of the family, but especially of the problem families, the problem groups, as she has repeatedly addressed family ministers Bartenstein in the media, namely single parents, single parents and low-income child families, we want to achieve a clear improvement in the situation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14523	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14544	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! In view of the advanced time, I try to make it very short. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's what you said last time, and then you were half a minute shorter than me!]] If you don't interrupt me, it'll be faster! Positive on the model of the Liberals is that it refers to a minimum of existence. I think that's important. The model of liberals is that it is tried not to hang this minimum of existence on tax promotion. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Then you know the model! We only know the request!]] I know only the request, but that can be seen from it. Negative to the model is that it does not take any account of the family burden compensation in any way. What do I mean by that? – A family with medium income and children is in no way taken into account by the family model of the Liberals compared to a family with medium income without children. There's no more burden compensation at all. That's a big problem. I think that if you talk about family support and if you know what is happening at the moment, even for middle-income families, if you have several children, that the poverty limit is quickly reached, if only one or two of these children study, if you know that, then you cannot represent this model. Negative to the model of the Liberals is that it does not attempt to contribute justice. It does not even try to make contribution justice on the revenue side. Negative to the model of the liberals is also the highly degressive effect. It's a savings package model, my dear colleague Kier. That's clear, too. You have announced it in times of the savings package, and it does not solve the idea of savings package, that of saving. Negative to the model of the Liberals is that it is complicated – that has already been said – and not easy to handle. In my view, it is negative that it depends on the right of maintenance, on a right of maintenance, which we know to be urgently worthy of improvement. It would be necessary, in fact, to create certain clarifications which are not provided in existing maintenance law. We know from all investigations on the maintenance right, on the application of maintenance claims that 50 percent of maintenance claims remain dependent. How does this model look when young people, for example, claim the claims of their parents? How does that work? - That's a negative. I think we still need a family burden compensation. We Greens are also committed to a horizontal support, which is precisely guaranteed by the family burden compensation. We must go in the direction of the minimum of existence – that is the common not only with the liberal model, but probably with many others here in this house too. We must take into account the situation of single parents in promoting the minimum of existence and those of multiple-child families. But we also need contribution justice. I think there should be an open debate on this in the Committee and here in this House. But for the above reasons, we certainly cannot agree with the Liberals' request on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14595	Mrs Bauer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14617	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I would like to say that we stand by the Austrian People's Party on the proven system of family support, which we can be proud of and which can also be seen in European comparison. We will improve and expand it and can definitely secure it. For us, the horizontal burden balance is an important chapter in the area of families, with a view to making family promotion and basic security of family life more effective and efficient. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is, of course, permitted to consider various forms of implementation in this context. Deputies Kier! We cannot accept your request for a variety of reasons. We reject him because we believe – and this is our basic principle – that family support is a concept, but social policy is another. In our view, there are many possibilities for basic security of existence and the fight against poverty in the area of social policy, and these are also to be pursued there. Family policy and, in particular, the horizontal balance of burdens are to be supported, with the family burden balance being made as a compensation between those families that have children and those who do not have children. In times like this, it would be absurd to go away from this principle. I believe that we will have to think very intensively about whether social peace in the future can remain between young and old in the demographic development that we have at the moment. It will have to be considered what opportunities we have to continue to pursue a burden compensation not only, but also to find recognition for those families and, above all, for those women who devote themselves to family work, whether at all or temporarily. – In this area we have already taken some positive steps in this direction. We have always spoken against the fact that families are, as it were, beneficiaries of the state. Family support is for us a very clearly entitled support, which is concentrated on families with children and is also set according to the age or number of children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We cannot imagine that, as provided for in your request, the family becomes a petitioner with the state by applying for family aid. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have to apply now!]] However, it has been explicitly stated here that proof of income conditions must be provided. – I imagine this very difficult. This would be a great red tape with a very high amount of time and a high cost of red tape. Finally – this argument is particularly simple at all – this request cannot be a family-friendly measure if there are savings of between 5 and 7 billion schilling in favour of the Minister of Finance. To this end, I must say: In times like these, in which I am here from the speaker's desk from the various parties – also from yours! – I always have to listen that the families are getting poorer and poorer, I really lack any understanding that they should be taken away from the transfer services! That is why we also reject your request. I would like to draw your attention to another point: The Wifo study is naturally bent and drawn. I have the impression that a lot of it will be misunderstood. The study shows, of course, that the FLAF's family incomes fall to only 18 percent in the lower incomes. – But there are only 17 percent of children there! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Why?]] Most of the funds, on the other hand, go to the top 45 percent, because there are also 68 percent of children. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The rich can afford the children!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Deputies Kier! Mrs. Mertel! I believe that today a good family allowance or something like that is not the sole factor in whether to confess to children. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A framework must be created!]] We women in particular know that there are much more obstacles to having children. There is no need for children to be cared for on the profession. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Childcare facilities are missing!]] In terms of childcare facilities, I could tell you something from Lower Austria now. But I would like to take this up for a later time when I have a little more time. In connection with childcare, public opinion or public opinion has partially misguided the discussion, instead of talking about where there are opportunities to help families and women more efficiently and better. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again that this request that family aid should only be granted if one is poor or vulnerable, means less resources for the family and more bureaucracy. This contradicts our basic principles of family support, and we cannot therefore be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14724	The next one on the speaker list is Mrs Haller with a speaking time of 1 minute. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14746	In the short term, I note that we liberals cannot agree with the Liberals' request, although, admittedly, he sounds quite reasonable in some areas. A brief explanation: In recent times, there have been absolutely anti-family tendencies in Austrian family policy. I remember the two savings packages. The Liberals have unfortunately made it too easy for this request to be formulated. You have still used a 1994 government statement of intent for the introduction, which makes me personally afraid as a committed family politician that this Liberal request could go in the wrong direction if it were to be accepted in this way. That is why we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14781	Mr Schuster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14803	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The politicians must no longer be silent when they think that there is something wrong with the families, that money is being used for purposes, or that the birth rate – as we do now in Austria – is very low. We must look for causes and fight these causes. The proposal we are presenting today has some content – they have already been mentioned by my previous speakers – which we do not approve. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a command of fiscal justice not to subject the minimum existence of a child to taxation. This would be most justifiable by exempting all members of the family a minimum of living from the tax, which according to the latest survey is approved by more than 50 percent of Austrians. But we have to ask ourselves in parallel: When can we afford that? – Of course, an answer is necessary. The family theme, however, means more than just a matter of discussing family allowances and transfers. I mean, the family is the first school of humanity we experience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But you have to be able to afford them too!]] In the Liberal Forum's request, it says – and this is very interesting – on the one hand that all Austrian taxpayers pay in the family tax compensation funds. But it goes on to say: "If there is no need for a transfer service to satisfy the child's claims, the ability of the dependants to apply the term "minima of existence shall not be required." If I turn this over to a generation later, then that means that the LIF wants to handle it in such a way that the people who have spent decades in the pension system are paid, then if they are entitled to a pension, and if you insist that they have a savings book and that the pension is not dependent on the pension. I really want to warn about such developments, and the People's Party will, of course, not agree with them under any circumstances. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The applicant, of course, interpreted the Wifo study from his point of view. I would like to bring a very interesting passage from this Wifo study literally. At one point – I quote – it says: "If the concept of family policy is widely understood, public services of around 10 percent of the national income are family-politically motivated. The direct benefits from the family tax compensation and tax subsidies amount to around 70 billion schilling in 1995. Also in international comparison, Austria is one of the countries with the highest family benefits." We believe that we need not be ashamed of it. This Federal Government, with the Federal Minister responsible for Family Dr. Bartenstein, does not need any additional lessons in this field from God through the Liberal Forum. That is why we will not vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14852	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14874	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me just a few very brief comments on the conclusion of this debate or on the follow-up to this debate. Mr Kier! I think it is essential to point out also the weaknesses of your request. In this way, you will easily propose to give up the FLAF's funding base by reducing the service providers' contributions, which represent the pillar of FLAF financing with more than 30 billion schilling, and instead of doing a somewhat nebulous financing from an ecologisation of the tax system. Mr Kier! I would draw your attention to the fact that this levy would necessarily be reduced in the course of time, because it would be a steering charge. I believe that this is a Vabanque game with the family compensation fund, which in principle makes your request less comprehensible. I would like to join with Mr Schuster, who rightly says that it was primarily a matter of allowing for a minimum tax-free living, with the question of whether I would like to ensure a minimum tax-free living, so in the event of an emergency, or whether I would exempt this minimum tax-free living if the corresponding income is available. However, they merely make a representation of a minimum taxed existence. Deputies Kier! Mrs Mertel said quite correctly that the VfGH's expected knowledge was diametrically opposed. A social breakdown of family benefits after income may initially look nice and sound pretty good. They forget, however, that you are implicitly calling for a step back to taxation of family income as a whole, because this cannot be reconciled with the system of individual taxation we want to maintain from the government coalition. It is also intended to continue to ensure and maintain the principle of compensation for the burden. The term "family promotion" alone is not quite right. I would like to conclude by saying that Mrs Bauer rightly said that it cannot be a particularly sensible family tax reform if it reduces the burden on families of between 5 and 7 billion schilling. For you yourself claim that your family tax policy has saved between 5 and 7 billion schillings. So it would stay less for the families. . I thank you for giving the word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14914	Thank you, Minister of State. No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 233 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request from the Committee to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-10-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14959	I declare that at today's sitting, requests 300/A to 307/A and requests 1284/J to 1305/J have been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 3rd. October 1996, 9 a.m. The agenda has been distributed in writing. The sitting is closed.
