ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3394	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 23rd. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 20, 21 and 22. Parliament's management session remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. As an obstacle to today's meeting day, MEPs are Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mag. Stadler, Ellwall, Dkfm. Ruthofer, Dr. Mertel and Mag. Peter. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3431	The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has received a letter dated 16 March. In May, he announced that he was abroad today. ==References====External links== 69 of the Federal Constitution automatically represented by the Deputy Chancellor. Furthermore, the Federal Chancellery for this meeting on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Mr Sozialminister Franz Humswill represent Dr. Christa Krammer by Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Finanzminister Klima is represented by Mr. Dr. Einm. I would ask you to take note of this. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3471	We'll get to the current hour. As a subject, it is proposed that: "Reform of universities and art universities"
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3492	The relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known. The first speaker at the present hour is Mr Dr. Novotny. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3517	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have requested a current hour on the topic of reform of universities and universities of art. The starting point is the current situation of a massive debate on universities throughout Europe. There is a wealth of literature with topics like "Is the university still to save?", "crisis of universities" and similar, there are student unrests, and therefore it is quite obvious: We have an international crisis of university systems. – I do not believe that this enormous unrest has been caused here in the hall by this crisis of the university systems, but would hope that this issue might be given a little more attention. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The speech gives little attention!]] This is a problem of universities, and this is unfortunately a problem of this House, which is often underestimated by your side, and especially by your side, the role of universities, although they have such a great significance and it would be worthwhile to pay more attention to questions of science than to the more often. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is particularly important in science policy to see these international aspects in order to be able to properly assess development in Austria. Because it's actually like this: We currently have difficult times at the universities in Austria, it is not to deny, in part crisis mood, but it would be wrong to see and believe the cause of this only with the government or with the ministers that this would be an isolated Austrian problem. Now it is true that the universities are extremely different. There are certainly still certain idyllic areas today, on the other hand, there are areas under great pressure, and as someone who believes he knows the practice of universities relatively largely, I can say: There are great problems, and it would be wrong to ignore them, but there are also great achievements at universities, great achievements in the field of science, great achievements in the field of education. Our graduates prove themselves internationally excellent, and in spite of all legitimate criticism, I would warn against making a self-esteem of the Austrian universities through a discussion that ignores these great achievements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Hallelujah!]] That's exactly the argument you hear time and again. When you point out these achievements, it is considered to be beautiful. I would invite you, whoever has just made this "intelligent" call – that doesn't surprise me that he comes from you –: [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer shows up.]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Look You're really going to the universities once! Look at what's working there, and I think you'll get a little different assessment than you said now. [[Abg. Hermann Böhacker: Yes, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] This too is not insult, but being a teacher is an honorable profession. What is now in need is undoubtedly a concrete, pragmatic discussion. It is also taking place, and the purpose of this current hour is to provide an interim report on this concrete discussion, to receive an interim report. I would just like to highlight a few areas of problem: The first problem is the question of human resources development at universities. I would like to stress that I consider this to be the most important area at all. Universities live on the work of scientists working there. We must also set very clear priorities in this regard. For example, when you visit American universities, you can see that there is often quite a lot of work in relatively shabby buildings, but there are a lot of staff that there are good libraries. In Austria there is sometimes a danger that first of all very beautiful buildings will be built, but then we will have problems with regard to the structure of the staff. Unfortunately, I have to refer to the current problem of the University of Veterinary Medicine, which has gotten a real luxury construction, but in which we are currently having problems with the staff. But there are other projects in discussion for which I would also like the priorities to be set correctly: Staff is the most important – buildings are also important, but they are not what makes the heart of a university. The second important point is the question of the right of employment and remuneration. This is also an open word. On the one hand, there is a trade union perspective, which is important and legitimate, but above all issues of remuneration and service rights at universities are also to be discussed on the aspect of international scientific performance. This must be the benchmark for the structures – and not the narrowest possible adaptation to an existing civil service law. Third point: the situation of students. Again, I assume: The principle of performance must apply to universities. This is the social responsibility of the university to provide well-trained people for society. But, of course, it must also be possible for students to provide these services. For us Social Democrats, therefore, the question of social continuity and the social openness of universities is particularly important. And there is a need for further negotiations. For example, I would like to point out the problem of travel costs, which affect socially weaker students, especially from the federal states. So far, only the city of Linz has offered a solution which, unfortunately, still cannot be realized. I myself am a member of the Supervisory Board of Linzer Verkehrsbetriebe. We have already written a letter to the Ministry of Family Affairs about a month or more, but unfortunately we have not yet received an answer so that the appropriate possibilities cannot be used. At any rate, the universities have an obligation to the students, and I think it is dangerous to take the students as hostages for university demands, for example by putting a stop to admission. This is a completely unacceptable process for us. There are clearly different priorities to be set in the universities themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point concerns the issue of the right to study. The aim is to achieve a reduction in study time, which is not at the expense of quality, but simply to assume from the established structures that we have a separation between mastery and doctoral studies, a separation which is currently often blurred in practice. I think it is necessary and also possible that universities can give themselves their own profiles, but they must not go so far as to ensure that the Austrian universities are no longer comparable and transparent. I therefore see no need for private universities in Austria. This is precisely the advantage of our system that each university has a chance to profile that there is a broad basis for students in Austria. All in all, universities are not dealing with the question of confrontation, but with a policy of cooperation, as Minister Scholten has just carried it, a cooperation which is favourable to universities, but which is also important for society as a whole, because universities are a far more important part of society than they could be left to the left. In this sense, I believe that we are on a very crucial brand of Austrian politics, and I hope that we can also accept this challenge accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3619	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Minister has notified himself. It's not supposed to exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3640	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The debate over the past few months has been dominated by an argument that is not correct. We are constantly discussing issues of service rights, remuneration issues, pay systems, too little, but we are not discussing the actual structures, the reform steps necessary to give the universities and the research landscape in Austria the competitive, modern, autonomous value that these institutions urgently need in order to be able to function successfully in the society in which they are to be successful. In my opinion, this accusation has been rightly raised, but it must not be overlooked that some of them have, of course, only used it to do so – and will still be – in order to attach this x-voluntary difficulty to a nebulous structural debate to a difficult situation in the personnel sector. I therefore think it is very important that we have the opportunity to talk about the concrete reform steps that are being taken at the universities in order to move precisely these structures. High house! I would like to highlight a few essential points to make it clear that the development of the internal organisation, the quality of the institutions and the decision-making processes and the possibilities of each one through these necessary reforms, in particular with regard to a university's customer orientation, namely with regard to students on the one hand and society on the other. The first point is that we want to move forward and move forward rapidly in the implementation of the 1993 UOG. We are in the middle of the first phase in which the Montan University of Leoben and the University of Soil Culture are already working within the UOG; three other universities are immediately preparing for this step. The second phase will begin in autumn and the third phase will follow after the period 1996/1997. If it is sometimes polemized, the UOG implementation does not succeed in being timely or not fast enough, then I cordially invite those who do so to participate at least once in any of these discussions, then they would see that first of all the accusation itself is wrong and second, there is a single point that we have to consider in the course of time, namely the willingness and the extent of preparation of the individual universities to take these steps. For the UOG certainly does not do anything in two respects: firstly, if we force institutions to implement the implementation against their will, and secondly, if we do not sufficiently support the will of the institutions, that is to say, slow down the whole thing. We are therefore trying quite in the original timetable to take the appropriate, also budgetaryly sound steps. This will lead to de-bureaucratisation, to a clear responsibility of university institutions, to the establishment of the dean who will be responsible in particular for teaching, to a decision-making authority of universities, including vocations and other staff issues, to a largely independent budgeting and – this is an essential point – to a mandatory evaluation of teaching and research activities. The second point on which we want to conclude the discussion over the next few months is study law. There are two to three points in the public, which are described as very controversial. In my view, however, these are not the central problem, and we will certainly find compromises for this without having to make changes in the quality of study rights. That's where we can face any objection. However, the central point of the law of study is deregulation, which is a transfer of the right to study to the individual faculties and study commissions, is the fact that universities are stopped and called by the law to be clearly aware of the design of the study plan on the outline, the use profile of the individual study fields. Customer orientation in terms of students is a central point. Of course, the law of study will also be the decisive instrument for reducing de facto study periods, and, I believe that this is a very central aspect, the law of study should also mean that students can study on the one hand shorter periods, on the other hand also have rights that are natural in our society. The third point is that universities are literally forced to hold the debate on the study plans with those who are not university members. I think the argument that sometimes repeats is that this is an extradition of universities to the economy – in order to express it cautiously – is wrong. De facto, on the part of the universities, there is a tendency towards immediately qualifying any external influence as a loss of independence. I believe that we must first of all have in mind the future path of the students, and this makes it essential that study plans are, of course, to be drawn up in dialogue with the economy and with other socially relevant groups outside the universities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will be a reform of medical studies in direct association with the law of study. We will have to follow up a corresponding reform of dentistry studies in order to bring into a final and legal form what is currently established as a transitional solution and guarantees European recognition. We will have to reform the organisation of the art universities – there are already wide-ranging discussions with the art universities to include them in the law of study – and it will also be a matter of doing so – and it must not be forgotten that the university institutions use this significantly increased autonomy and independence to use this instrument in a quality-oriented manner. It will also be about the fact that, to a large extent, there is a change of attitudes which takes account of the growing importance of universities, as I would like to add to what honourable Member Novotny said, in a society of social importance and in a learning society in which we are without a doubt. From this point of view, I would also like to take the opportunity to make it clear that every debate we have with universities must not change at this point and that universities are a central institution in this society, that universities are essential prerequisites for us to create what all, I suppose, work with great commitment, namely to face the challenges of the future. That is what makes it necessary for us to reform the universities – that is what is being done. – Thank you for this opportunity to present this today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3713	The speaking time of all other speakers in the current hour is now 5 minutes each. Mr Stippel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3737	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you of the historical development of our universities and art universities, which were a section in the Ministry of Education until 1970, following the remarks made by my two previous speakers. At the time, Bruno Kreisky made the right decision to set up his own Ministry of Science and Research in Austria. This has led to an appreciation of science and research in our country. This has led to the fact that, for example, in the university field, the number of teachers increased by two thirds, which could even double the demand for space. Mr Novotny has already pointed out the balance and the focus on these resources. However – and this must be seen and said clearly – it is in many areas in this time, in many fields, that there has been an explosion-like increase in the number of students, because we Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, have always put the basic principle of open access to higher education in the foreground of our considerations. And it's supposed to stay here, too: There must continue to be open access to higher education in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, because of this open access to higher education in some fields of study, there is a very difficult relationship between teachers and learners, and in areas of study where the opportunities for a future professional exercise in Austria are very low, the solution cannot be that there is more planning posts and more space and equipment resources available. There must then be an open access to higher education to the individual responsibility of the students in such a way that they consider what they are studying at the beginning of their studies and what career prospects there will be for them at the end of their studies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A problem has also been addressed before I briefly explain the reform approaches, namely the problem of the exploitation of existing resources. – For almost half a year, most of the university spaces are empty. These spatial resources are currently underutilised in Austria; the same applies to many equipment resources. I remember a time when the computer scientists reached TU because they had too few computers available, as they said at the time. My son studied at the time and told me that there was, of course, a bottleneck between Monday and Friday between 10 a.m. and 12 p.m. in the morning. But if a student is willing to work perhaps at 4 or 5 o'clock in the afternoon on the computer, he can even choose the computer. – Another example is that the resources at our universities are not used optimally. As far as time resources are concerned, I would like to add something to the discussion which should perhaps be more focused on the following considerations in the future: Could it not be considered to come from a semester division to a trimester classification – I know there are very, very many problems, but I say that once – and so to say, to the students, offer two speeds of study? The one who wants to study "normal" must prove two out of three trimesters a year, the other who wants to study quickly, can prove all three trimesters and thus get to his goal so faster. In order to reach this goal, we have a lot of work to do here in the House in the next few weeks, months and years. The Federal Minister has already mentioned the legal conditions that we need to create for a structural reform of universities. I can only join this fully in content.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3794	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Lukesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3816	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Both Mr Novotny and you yourself, Mr Minister, have pointed out that, in view of the budgetary consolidation phase, the structural issues, the structural problems of our university have been particularly clearly expressed, I do not need to repeat this. Mr Novotny said that this was not limited to Austria, but there was something like an international trend in structural issues – up to a crisis of the university. I should like to draw your attention to a quote from the Zurich newspaper, where the President of ETH Zurich said: "The zero growth of real financial resources in the last three years is desirable. We want to make a contribution to dealing with a difficult" – Swiss – "budget situation, but remain dynamic and take responsibility for general future security on the basis of autonomy." So in general, the university's crisis at international level is not, there are also exceptions. In my opinion, the reason for this exception – and the President said so – lies in the keyword "autonomy". The Austrian People's Party has started this journey systematically with the UOG in 1993, and I believe, Federal Minister, we must continue this process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The principles of self-determination and self-responsibilities of universities must be implemented by accelerating the entire reform process. Just five theses, Minister of State: We must not lose sight of the implementation of the UOG in 1993, as some of the votes call for, in hostages, this organisational reform to achieve short-term, tactical objectives. That is where I expect the toughest resistance and the determination of the implementation of your timetables. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we should continue to deepen autonomy as it was created in a first stage in 1993. What do I mean by that? – We should take advantage of all budgetary opportunities to make the budgetary situation at universities more flexible, to extend the scope for decision of the reform universities, and to allow this university management, the new university management, in fact, the opportunity to introduce and implement multi-annual financial planning in its field. Perhaps I am not entirely of the opinion of Mr Novotny. In any event, I believe that the approval of foreign universities, agreed in the Coalition Agreement, after an accreditation process, assessment process, would also be an important step towards ensuring competition as a discovery principle for better solutions here in Austria. – Mr Federal Minister, let us take this step! We have not yet reached a second important corner stone in the implementation: this is the university board. Federal Minister! Please create the framework conditions for this university board to become effective as a strategic unit for the medium and long-term orientation of our universities. Tag Evaluation, keyword Focusing, yes Tag Master Plan for University Development. This is an essential step. Thirdly, The university teacher service law is in direct discussion. I am glad that the scope of the discussion has also increased and that all the groups are now involved. But there is a principle, and I would ask you to draw attention to an objection, Mr Federal Minister, which is that we must not forget, in the right of service, to the flexibility of young researchers, to the assistants. At a time when the number of posts will not rise, we must also have place at the universities for our young, for our new researchers. Fifth and final point, Minister of State: There must also be new money for our universities and research institutions, including in a phase of budget consolidation. Keywords on this would be: Cooperation between universities and the economy, joint institutions – I am immediately at the end – and the need to increase the use of EU funds, new ways in the third-party acquisition. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Federal Minister! My experiences with structural problems are: They must be taken decisively. Waiting and drinking tea will not be an answer in order to find appropriate answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3901	Final rates appear to have different lengths. The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. He's got the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3925	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If I take the floor on the subject of universities, then, in order to underline it, one should say, that the at least subjectively justified concern for an essential part of our cultural heritage: cultural heritage, namely the concern to express the concerns of universities. Federal Minister! I do not know the fact that you have committed a serious inheritance. This heavy heritage is certainly once upon the object, on the object of the universities, which consists of a sum of very self-willed subjects, but which I do not wish to stress as negative, but as positive in the sense of science. But you have also taken over a legacy from your predecessors, which I simply want to characterise with the word "feel development" in order not to say: You have had to take over a rubble in one development or another. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not want to talk much about the past, ladies and gentlemen, but I still note: As a whole, co-determination did not pass the test of the Constitutional Court; the practice of house calls, often at the border of illegality, did not pass the test of the university board. In many other circumstances, there has also been a contribution to the current malaise, which I would like to mention as follows: The creation of so-called de facto professorships, which is because one has replaced by an accumulation of legal titles such as assistants, teaching assignments or only teaching assignments and additional examination powers, which should have been created, namely planning places for ordinary or extraordinary professors. I want to wait with one more detail: I wonder how it could have come about that for a late colleague who read six hours of a week, as was naturally provided with a apprenticeship quota of eight to ten hours of a week, although it could have been remembered that the rest of the professional colleagues took over the extraordinary courses. If I say this, ladies and gentlemen, then I do not know one either, namely the role of universities, which I also see critically. The universities may not have always done what they should have done from their ethos. In my opinion, they have, above all, rejected one thing, namely to strongly point out that they are also places of research. Perhaps many of my colleagues simply calm down by quoting them in the footnotes of other colleagues. But the public effectiveness of research has not been achieved, but the function of universities as research institutes has not actually been pushed into the public. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I want to blame not only the universities but also the mass media in this relationship. The mass media do not actually have that pride with regard to our high schools, which one could demand and which was quite present in the past. The mass media have simply failed to communicate to the people in a simple way what the high schools are doing, as Mr Novotny, for example, pointed out as positive. I do not know that the universities have recently failed to make concrete savings proposals. As a parliamentarian, I would have expected that much more concrete savings proposals would have been made by the universities. In short: I am not only critical of the ministry, but also of the institution to which I count. After the past to the present: It looks like those who have put out the soup, who have incubated others in the past; those are primarily those who are willing to learn and do well, and indeed also powerful students. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also regrettable that a major step forward in the field of service law comes only from a certain kind of money, from the money we do not have. That is, the incitement to a reorientation of service law is rooted in savings measures. It is, of course, also understandable that it should go quickly, because it is a matter of saving. And I cannot resist the impression that the time limits for assessment are partly too short that assessment periods may even be stepped up with feet, that opinions are shubbled et cetera. The flood of opinions on the University of StG is Legion, but I am very skeptical about whether these opinions will be taken into account. I am also skeptical of whether the UOG will bring a solution. Instead, I see a new bureaucracy coming on us. When I refer to the example of the Montan University of Leoben: It has only found for the rector new styles a candidate, not yet a candidate for the vice-rector, but there are five new posts for the administration. High house! As for the future – past and present – I see it with a certain anxiety, especially in view of the fact that I think that the university research centre is resigning from the university teaching centre, and – I am still in the sentence, Mr President – you will have an understanding of it when I say to you – in changing a classical piece: [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] "Sir, give the universities those freedoms that the universities need!", I add in brackets, so to speak: but absolutely no more, and more: "Sir, give Parliament, in particular, the freedom required by Parliament to adopt the rules of study!", and finally: "Sir, please take the freedom to control the universities, but not much more!" - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4022	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4043	Mr President. High house! – Minister of State! You thanked Mr Novotny, the science speaker of the Social Democrats, so much that you have the opportunity to talk about the problems of universities for a few minutes today. And I say quite openly: I too am not ungrateful that I have at least these 5 minutes here in plenary, at a time when it has been particularly hot for many years on the street in terms of university topics. But that you have so rarely the opportunity here, and we have a cause, Mr Federal Minister: We are now almost half a year after the re-election, but the Scientific Committee has not once done so all the time, and the reason is that you have not brought a single negotiating document to this House at this time. This is the deplorable state that we are unable to do so, while on the street, in the truest sense of the word, the debates are taking place. Here in the House – Mr Brauneder has also indicated this in his conclusion – in which we should do the science policy, the university policy, we cannot do it because your place of business in relation to these documents is simple. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Your speech was full of statements of intent, you always spoke of "we shall" and "we must." I have an urgent request to you, Minister of State: Do something! Take, for example, the Studiengesetz to the Hohe Haus, even if it has not yet been negotiated with your coalition partner until the last point and addition! Perhaps it makes sense to debate matters controversially in committee. I would ask you to be able to do something. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: Who prevents you from doing so?]] Federal Minister! There are two ways: Either you join Mr Brauneder and say that Parliament should do it itself and I will not take care of it – or you will submit your proposals. One of the two must happen. You have presented a draft which has been under review and is now in your place since the beginning of this year, but it is not coming to Parliament. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: He's public!]] He is public, Mr Federal Minister, but we want to talk about it in committee. Debates of the European Parliament It is therefore justified that we call on you to present this proposal, as it corresponds to the parliamentary use, to Parliament and the Scientific Committee in fact. I urgently ask you to do so. Second point. Mr Stippel has raised the question of resources. It is indeed true that we cannot expect that in the foreseeable future the funds will suddenly be opened up in this area. On the contrary: We will have to do everything we can to make better use of the available resources. So that's a clear thing. Now the fundamental contradiction must necessarily go through this debate as well. Mr Stippel has already pointed out that access to the university should be free. All right, you'll have the joy of the whole house. But one must also be consistent: If we give many the opportunity to study and free access to universities is guaranteed, then the Republic, by the coalition government, must also provide the appropriate resources for it. That's the problem. You haven't done much in the past few years. An interesting detail: On the part of the Austrian People's Party, but also from the socialist side recently came the idea that teaching diplomas should also allow free access to universities. All right, an interesting educational idea. But I wonder if all those who raise this demand will also have the consequences here and provide appropriate resources for this further flow to the universities. I would like to invite the coalition very cordially. Third point: The actual scandal in our entire university education system is the Studiengesetz. It is the study reform which has been avoided but which would be urgently necessary. Study hours from an average of six to eight years are simply unreasonable. Therefore, there is an urgent need for reforms in this case. This is where our university system fails due to incorrect university education. My last sentence: Federal Minister! We can no longer afford to the youth any failure in the university field, and we cannot afford to fail in the research field in relation to the economic location and the society of Austria. The government has remained guilty for a lot. Again, Minister of State, don't say: We must, we will, we must! but do something! That's your job!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4100	I call Mr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4121	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After a year and a half in Parliament, I am still admiring at the ability or at least the will of the representatives of the government parties to believe that if you make a bit of smoke rise or create a fog wall, problems disappear. Mr Novotny, whom I very much appreciate as an economic colleague, has tried this in today's speeches. I do not understand yet why the Social Democrats have chosen this issue for the current hour. Internationally, the situation of universities was difficult, it was said. - So what? Does that force us to copy or repeat that in Austria? What kind of argument is that supposed to be? The aim of the current hour is to obtain an interim report. – What interim report have we received? The UOG 1993 will continue to be carried out at the universities. I am very much in favour of that, but we already knew that. The deregulation of the right to study should come, Minister Scholten said. Fine, wonderful, but if we don't know, we've been hoping, that's not really new. It was new this year that thousands of students were standing on the street, that is not six weeks ago, and it was new that the universities were practically in the general strike all over the country. – This is the situation before which we stand, and at which relatively little has changed. If you really want to know, ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy, how the situation at the universities is at present, you only need to read the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of today. There is much more to it than what we have experienced so far in the current hour, namely that the number of teaching assignments will be reduced by 10 percent and that one does not know what the effects will have in each course of study, that per teaching assignment – or as always this thing will then be called in the future – instead of a 30 percent reduction, a 17 percent reduction will come, and above all that the staff stop at the universities will continue. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It will not come in the form of what a decree of the ministry announced or had a few weeks ago. It seems that this decree was from the pen of an overzealous official who, perhaps literally, did not correctly interpret a directive. The fact is, however, that only a part of the freedom to provide services can be re-occupied. This must have a lasting impact. These non-retirements are at the expense of the youngest in universities, as far as young scientists are concerned, and they are at the expense of the innovatives. This will have consequences sooner or later. The short-term effects can hardly be seen, but the long-term consequences will be felt in a few years. I cannot see that Austrian economic policy takes seriously that educational expenditure is investment, namely investment in human capital. If you look at the budget, you can see that it simply does not reflect. In this respect, figures are irrefutable. You will always find ways to pump a little more money into road construction. But when it comes to pumping a little more into the educational institutions, especially in higher education, the imagination goes out to you, ladies and gentlemen. So I can't see what brought us this current hour to additional information. The situation at the universities is still bad. I would like to admit that a transitional arrangement for the winter semester and the coming summer semester has been found which prevents at least the next general strike, but the starting point, the basic situation, has hardly changed anything. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4178	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Dr. Riedler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4200	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I think it is very likely that it will have its power if we want to discuss this issue in a more detailed and extra-tourist manner today. We are doing this at a time when there is a lot of flow in the development of science and university policy and some innovations are to be expected that will significantly improve the scientific and university situation in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! If, as admittedly under pressure from structural adjustment laws, we are going to come to a new right of service and remuneration, then this is, I believe, an essential progress, which is ultimately also a merit of Minister Scholten. This is a progress and a political act that his two predecessors, the ministers Busek and Tuppy, were unable to achieve. That is to say, we are in fact moving much further under the direction of an agil and progressive, willful minister. I believe that this should be recognized as progress and as performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are directly in front of a novel of the University Organization Act – also a matter that is being pursued by a knowledge of the Constitutional Court. It is essential to note that the participation and hence the democratic basis in the habilitation process, to give an example, remains the participation of students to an extent that we believe is desirable and necessary. Another point that seems to be important and necessary to us is that, in the context of the reform of the service law, it will be possible to include in the right of service for the medium-sized building also what is paid for and what is in fact its essential task, namely the field of teaching, so that in the future this will no longer have to be paid off extra on the detour of overtime or remunerations. This too, I believe, is a major structural progress that we can be proud of. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, the future of science policy and university policy is characterised by three main concepts: firstly, by the concept of further democratization, secondly by the concept of internationalization and thirdly by the objective of increasing efficiency, which we want to achieve in this context in the field of universities. The term "democracy". The central goal is to maintain the openness of our universities. I therefore believe that discussions on the introduction of tuition fees and also on the introduction of a Numerus claususus are not intended and not meaningful. The Socialists oppose such proposals and will therefore not give them any consent. With regard to study fees, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, in my view, social and social responsibility can also be argued with the generation contract. If we expect the future well-trained workers in Austria to make a contribution to the generation agreement today, we must not deny them the support and the provision of adequate training today. That means, as I said, free access to universities. I believe that access is free if there is no need to pay for it. This is a principle that we should not turn away from. Ladies and gentlemen! Another goal that seems to me to be essential is the possibility of lifelong learning. Lifelong learning will be of increasing importance in the field of universities and in the field of professional life as a whole. This access is to be maintained, and I therefore also believe that we must ensure that people are able to have open access to universities not only immediately after they have completed their schooling but throughout their life. In order to achieve this objective a contribution will be made with the templates to be discussed here in the coming months.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4262	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's I'll give it to her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4283	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In this debate, I should like to express my views on some of my previous speakers. It is the law of study and the question of whether there is something like an orientation to customers, to the economy. Of course: There's no fear of contact here. However, guidance always depends on how to formulate the overall goal of education. For the formulation of "research-led teaching" and "education by science", as it was anchored in the old AHStG, we do not come around. Inclusion of the economy and the "consumer landscape" cannot mean that due to late-curricular thinking, experts are being involved in it, so that an infinite follow-up game can be played and only obstacles arise at the universities through this circular link. I think that's important to all of us. This has always been expressed. – However, I do not want to leave misunderstandings in the room. The university board will also have to play a stronger role in the question of self-employment policy than in the past. In this way, we also have the opportunity, in the present composition and also in the future, to involve the dimensions – economy, customers, international quality comparison – and to develop focus and strategy advice on this body. We should not lose sight of that. A word on the interpretations of Professor Brauneder. I don't know, I don't understand him, or I'm just the one who really needs to be scared. Has he told everyone that Parliament should adopt the rules of study? – This has nothing to do with autonomy at all. Rather,: He's putting our legal relations on the head. I can only assume that it was a misunderstanding, otherwise I would ask for information. One more moment to open university access. We believe that it is a profoundly inhumane approach, a profoundly unexplained approach, and one that lets students and their intentions go astray. We are therefore talking about designed access to higher education, not about the restrictive in the sense of building up social barriers or other ones. I am glad that there are constructive opinions in all parties – although some of them, but also from foreign experts from these parties. Let me say something on the subject of art universities, because that is also the debate. Essentially, the following seems to me to be the following: The art universities are also included in the UOG. They deal with issues of autonomous and flexible self-determination to a minimum of the level of the universities. Especially the conditions there in relation to connection teaching – research – artistic mission, these dimensions need autonomous self-design to a greater extent than we might consider it necessary from the outside. At the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna a lot will change in the next time. They have partly read this in the media. Several professors – as you say so beautifully – will retire. In parallel with the recording stop, this means a great uncertainty. I wonder – in a sense, of course, also the Minister and the officials responsible for it from the ministry – how to deal with the reports I have taken from a weekly magazine, and what Parliament can do to make a rapid improvement. The study committee is proposing that on the one hand, the "Professor for Life" should be abolished. The second focus of the concept is to resolve the master class principle, while Prorector Köb, in turn, says that we would deal with the future with a counter-concept of "open workshops". That would be an idea with which the Academy could work forward-looking. The students, in turn, say that in reality – and I can join this – we need an even greater structural reform. Federal Minister! There is great uncertainty at the Academy of Fine Arts and at the art universities. How's the teaching going? How's the structure going? I would ask you to give answers in this regard or send signals. Parliament and the most important Members, I believe, are going along with you in this assessment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4338	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4359	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the fair weather speeches of the Federal Minister and his Social Democratic Group colleagues, it is, I think, time to make a sober inventory analysis of our universities – and to the inventory analysis of the universities belongs the situation of the students. The students now see themselves exposed to a social numerus clausus. On the one hand, the travel aid has been completely removed, on the other hand, the family allowance for a large part of the studentship has been abolished. Not only do the students face a very precarious situation, and they have also expressed this situation by staging strikes. – But it is not only the situation of students, who are so precarious and who need a comprehensive structural reform of the university area as a whole, but also the university institutions, who are exposed to interference by the minister and by the ministerial bureaucracy. Mr Novotny came from Linz and addressed the Linz situation. But what he has probably forgotten is the fact that the Institute for Economic Information is facing the closure. And that's not an individual case. Think of other university institutions, or think of entire faculties that have announced that they will no longer be able to guarantee proper university operations from autumn 1996. Or remember that the construction studies are completely abolished by the new legal situation. The development of technical environmental protection, ladies and gentlemen, is at risk of abolition. It is a shame to the Republic of Austria to abolish this so important construction study of technical environmental protection in the tenth year after Chernobyl. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! What are you doing about it? What are you doing about it? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Scholten.]] – Minister! It is not enough if you come here and talk about it – I have said – that the universities are central institutions of society. - No, no, no, no, no, Everyone will, of course, agree with you! But this is nothing but the cut-out from a beautiful weather speech, and that is nothing but the announcement of maintaining a completely passive university policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Scholten.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also one for the Federal Minister and for the situation he is in, a situation in which he is completely overwhelmed, that the term "research" has been eliminated from the overall concept of his ministry. Austria is what the research is about, without even threatening to take over the "red lantern" of Portugal. Only 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product is still spent on research. What are you doing about it? What measures do you take? – The Government Convention states that any privatisation revenue is increasingly used for research institutions. The fact is that Mr Finanzminister Klima has now announced that the privatisation proceeds will be used to meet the convergence criteria. – What are you doing about it? The fact is further, Mr. Federal Minister – take a concrete position on this! – that Austria is at a low level within the European Union, what is going on in the field of research. We are on a one-way road due to the German Government's passivity, because an amount of say and write 1 billion schilling goes to the European Union to carry out research projects for Portugal and Greece, and nothing comes back because you are passive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! It is not enough for you to care for the Ministry of Art that you move through the countries with the casting can, a feudal lord, and grant the "art promotion billion". You can not only follow the principle of "I am the state!" Awareness-seeking. They convey a picture of the helplessness of the universities. Mr. "Future Minister" – I take this word deliberately into my mouth, even if it has not been used in the past, nor has it been used by the media – that is, I believe, the sober analysis – has not overcome the past of the missing social democratic education policy and will not overcome it after these announcements.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4456	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4481	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if those here are the same as I am: If I look at the side of the Social Democrats who have convened this present hour and see this small presence, I ask myself, Minister: Did you ask for a task or how should I interpret it? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! "The universities – not worth talking!" – This is how the guest comment of an author begins, who is at the same time rector of the University of Soil Culture in Vienna. And on top of that: There is no higher education and research policy in this country. As such misunderstanding activities are limited to statements and calls on day topics. Perspektive statements are completely missing, in Parliament there is a black hole in this regard, supplementing: a red hole. – End of the quote. I don't think it's an addition to that if you look at the failure in higher education policy. Ladies and gentlemen! This manko is not erased today, because a current hour, required by a government partner, is significant – praise for its own minister, Tadel from the other government partner. It is to be feared that good opposition proposals will continue to be put under the table. The discussion in the public, the strikes of students, as well as the assistants and university professors in recent weeks around the savings package speak a clear language. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Freeman and on the Greens.]] As a member of the European Union, steps in terms of quantity and quality of teaching and research threaten to be taken at a time of set-aside. Human resources and budget law stand out, Dr. Novotny – he's not here! The debate on savings in family allowances and, at the same time, on tuition fees showed how diletantly one is addressing the solution of such problems. Ladies and gentlemen! I am of the opinion that, primarily from the point of view of the social situation of the students, one can and should understand the complex of study fees, family allowances and scholarships. Scholarships and grants are there to enable young people to study not to prevent it, but also from the point of view of students not to delay. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the students – which has already been noted today – have been subject to several income losses in recent years, which go far beyond what other groups of people – other than the families – have been meant to do. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] I also call myself savings, but they must not be one-sided. Structural changes throughout higher education are therefore needed. Minister Scholten! For a time I hear from you that it is necessary, but I ask you: Do something at last! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The starting point of the UOG 1993 should therefore be to continue seriously, because not only in strategic development, but also in current work, a vacuum is unmistakable. I therefore call on all the principal responsible to articulate not only in long discussions or as today in this present hour, but at last to act! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For I too am in the opinion of Rector Leopold March – and I quote at the end: Of course, universities will not perish at all. They would, on the other hand, deserve to be given the priority in our policy in the form of a dedicated public discourse, with a number of about 200 000 students in Austria, 9 000 professors, lecturers and young scientists and almost 7,000 technical staff. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4568	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4589	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Mr Minister, I would have hoped you would tell us about your new field of activity, about the Ministry of the Future, about the future of the Ministry of the Future, about the objectives of the Ministry of the Future. Now the university is in line. – I was right, I thought. She deserved it, it's necessary. It is only if I take the debate, your contribution, the contributions of the Socialist Members to this issue so far that I have to say that I have not been able to hear much about the future of the university, that is relatively little about what is being discussed by you internally and externally in the public about the future. Minister! Should there be private universities, as you have demanded, or should there not be them? Should there be tuition fees, as is discussed in several internal papers in SPÖ, or should there not be them, as the Federal Chancellor promises us? Should it, as Mr Stippel was unfortunately no longer able to carry out, because his time had expired, so that he could not open these goals to us, give a two-trimester training parallel to a three-trimester training? Or what does that mean? It would be necessary to express this future of the university a little more, a little more clearly. But without prejudice to the university's objectives, of its future, of its organizational future, it would have been necessary to say: The students need this future. The academic staff also need this future. The previous speaker in my group has already pointed out: Minister! They owe us all the answers in this area. Let us not forget that just a few weeks ago, tens of thousands of students were on the street and, as I think, were on the street with good reason – not to demand anything bad, but to call for a future for their studies to be a future for universities. I read in the paper ==References== November 1995: Students need more money. – This applies to Austria with the same right as Germany. Of course, they would need more money and no less, as they have enforced it with all your measures in the Structural Adjustment Act for students and for academic staff. We have calculated what the Structural Adjustment Act means for the students: 5 000 s per semester less if the student lives at the place of study, 9 000 s if he has to travel from another place to the university. Five thousand or nine thousand s per semester less – where is the money to come from, colleague Koppler? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] [[Abg. Koppler: What an apprentice gets, let's know!]] – Mr Koppler, don't come with the apprentices! You would have had enough opportunity to work for the apprentices too, that's what you don't mind. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This mutual billing of apprentices and students is wrong, that's an evil thing you're forcing, colleague Koppler, with that is not done! You can't talk about the future by playing apprentices against students! You don't have to tell me that the apprentices are bad. I know, and I can give you arguments at any time. Only now we don't discuss it, so get away from the apprentices, and we'd rather talk about the future of universities again! Here you are, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, all the answers remain guilty. Nothing has come about the future of universities, nothing has come about the future of students or academic staff or their prospects. It would have been necessary to talk about a training fund to discuss the funding of studies. It would have been necessary to discuss not only the promotion of students but also the promotion of women. It is significant that, in times like this, not only student support is deleted, but also the promotion of women. Minister! They are responsible for the fact that these women's promotion programmes have now been cut short by the Ministry. I think this is a mistake, I think it is fatal, a false sign at the wrong time. It would have been necessary, Mr Minister, to send clear signs from your side – for the future of the university, for the future of university education. But, unfortunately, nothing has happened – except that you intend to introduce some legislation in the next few months. Minister! The university needs a future. You now have the name "Future Minister", so please do your job a little more.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4639	I don't have any further words. I declare that the current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4663	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4832	In addition, the following templates have been received: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Belarus, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (115 of the Supplements), Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kyrgyz Republic, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (116), Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (117 of the Supplements), Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part (126 of the Supplements). I propose, in agreement with the members of the President's Conference, to refrain from assigning these items to a committee and to take them into account when drawing up the agenda for one of the next meetings within the meaning of § 28a of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4874	Deputies Dkfm. Holger Bauerand Comrades have asked for the written question 603/J of Deputies Dkfm, which was put into the agenda before receipt. Holger Bauerand comrades to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs regarding rising unemployment and further immigration from foreigners to Austria are urgently to be addressed. Since this request is aimed at carrying out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time, in accordance with the relevant legal provisions, the start of the debate on this urgent request will be scheduled for 4 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4904	It is also proposed that the debate on points 2 to 6 of today's agenda be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then let's go like that. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4929	We can now enter the agenda. Consensus on the design and duration of the debates on today's agenda was reached at the Presidential Conference as follows: The debate on item 1 should be subject to a speaking time limit of 10 minutes per speaker, with a speaker of each group speaking for 20 minutes. The joint debate on points 2 to 6 is to be limited to three "Vienna hours", so that speaking times are as follows: SPÖ 45, ÖVP 42, Free 39, Liberal Forum and Greens each 27 minutes. In addition, a maximum of three speakers per group were proposed on item 7 with a speaking time of 10 minutes each. On item 8, one speaker per group is proposed with a speaking time of 5 minutes each. These are the consensual proposals on which the House is to be found. On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. That is why it has been approved and decided unanimously and unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report of the Federal Government (III-17 of the Supplements) on internal security in Austria (1994 Security Report) (145 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4978	==References== The next item is the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the 1994 safety report, III-17 of the Supplements, Committee Report 145 of the Supplements. Mrs Ludmilla Parfussist was elected rapporteur and will initiate the debate. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5001	Mr President. High house! The subject of this report relates to the criminality of the year 1994, which deals with the prevention, investigation and criminal justice of the offences committed in Austria in a report form. In total, the content is divided into ten chapters, eight of which were provided by the Federal Ministry of the Interior and two chapters by the Federal Ministry of Justice. A police criminal statistics was also provided by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. These statistical documents have been sent to all Members in good time and are discussed in the following debate. I would ask you, Mr President, to allow Members to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5023	Thank you, rapporteur, for your comments. As we know, we have just set the speaking times: First speaker 20 minutes, all other speakers 10 minutes. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5050	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister In a press conference, one recently presented the 1995 figures for the report which is under discussion today, so to speak. He pointed out that, compared to 1994, the figures have fallen again, because this report has 1994 figures which are increasing consistently. In the course of this press conference, Minister of the Interior made a special stop, stating that there was no real basis for fear of crime in Austria at all. In the opinion of the Minister of the Interior, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! What I consider to be extremely remarkable is the statement that Minister One thinks that only the politicians – that is, only we – do not want to do so, he means, because you can do fine business with it, if you say how dangerous it is in Austria. – I would like to mention this assumption, which ministers make to all the politicians represented here in the House: Only we would not want Austria to be sure because we want to do business with it. – Minister One! For my group, I reject this proposal all around. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister of the Interior then even goes so far as to say that the fear of violent crime in general – one must imagine that! – due to the violence against children and women in their own four walls, so he meant almost: If there were not violence in the family, the executive would soon be unemployed. This is once again the Minister of the Interior One, as we all now know him: removed, far from any reality, unimpressed by the events of the recent past. It is also not impressed by the fact that he has not even had the slightest success in resolving the most serious cases of Austrian crime in the post-war period. He tells us: If there were no violence in the family, in Austria there would be virtually everything in butter. He also says this well knowing that the power of statement of the figures presented by him is to be enjoyed with caution, he knows, for example, that serial breakdowns, serial frauds et cetera are only regarded as a crime, no matter how many offences are actually subsumed under it, and he also knows that many smaller crimes are no longer displayed in the absence of a chance for successful reconnaissance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The slight increase in the education rate – although the Minister has considered it to be a success – is also explained quickly if one can believe the expert, as a result of the sharp decline in the number of anonymous ads in case of property damage. Ladies and gentlemen! Was Minister However, one of his press conferences should not be interested in this debate, such as the UN's finding – we repeatedly call on international organisations to find out if something positive is in it about Austria – that Vienna has already become the centre of European crime, the centre of international criminal organisations. Minister! We should discuss this here! Once again, a United Nations report – to be read in the "Standard" – is the Austrian Federal Capital of Vienna as the center of international organised crime. It says – I quote –: "Especially Eastern European gangster cartels have given the tone since the collapse of Communism in the Walzerstadt." – Minister! You should be interested in this: Vienna – Center for International Criminal Organisations! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! A close study of the security report shows that crime has become another, an even more dangerous one. Every fourth crime must already be classified in the area of organized crime. More and more Russian organizations are setting up their headquarters in Vienna. The "special areas" prostitution, girl trafficking, arms trafficking, money laundering have brought it to high flowering in Austria. About 15 new companies are set up each month with Russian managing directors, with the intention of entering this business as well. – But our minister complains about the violence in the families, but he does not see things really dramaticly developing in Vienna! But this development is what should be of concern to us. The development of trafficking in human beings, for example, is particularly dramatic: 259.1 per cent increase compared to the previous year, rising, ladies and gentlemen! In addition to trafficking in human beings, the safety report also shows alarming growth rates in the area of drug crime, a nationwide increase of 15.6 percent per year, in the Styria 61.4 percent, in Carinthia 56.9 percent! 250 drug deaths in Austria, an increase of 11 percent! – And our minister complains about the violence in the family and sees no problem in Austria otherwise. – Ladies and gentlemen! A minister who closes his eyes to all these problems is a security risk to this Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are alarming numbers that he doesn't see that only worry us. I think Mr Minister, it would be high time to act. Although the safety report clearly shows that Austria is becoming a favorite country for car-moving, for human traffickers, for the Russian mafia, for drug dealers, in short for all, ladies and gentlemen who have to deal with organised crime... [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann, who has been standing right next to the speaker at the government bank since the beginning of this speech, and who talks half-time with Federal Minister Hums and Federal Minister Dr. Einm, is interrupted by the speaker.]] Mr President. It's unbearable. This is really unbearable, Mr Fuhrmann, what you are doing here next to me during my remarks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Please put yourself in your bank and follow the post, and then go out and say here what you have to say. Please, Mr Fuhrmann, be so collegial and let me carry on with my speech. For car sliders – I have to repeat it – for traffickers, for the Russian mafia, for drug dealers, in short, really for those dealing with organized crime, Austria becomes more and more a favorite country. But we are still at the beginning of the discussion, how we can deal with all of this. Although we are debating electronic evidence assurance and the search for grids, we are again considering how to use this politically, how to push a tool into the hands of the government parties, instead of really using these methods to combat international crime! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are only about taking influence, only about how you can use it for your benefit. – But we have to make policy here for the population, especially the security policy, Mr Minister. They do not even think it necessary for the executive to be able to monitor GSM devices. If there is a need for this, then we must borrow equipment from Germany by 44 000 s a week, Mr Minister, which is equipment that is not immediately available. Appliances that we do not have give the organized crime once again the opportunity to give itself an advantage. International crime uses high-tech possibilities, according to the motto "crime is business" it is increasingly professional – and the Austrian executive fights against bureaucratic obstacles and with an inactive Minister of the Interior, who, according to his own statement, only sees a problem when there is violence of the Austrian fathers and husbands in the family. Federal Minister! Especially striking – but really not surprising – is the fact that the crime of foreigners is absolutely not an issue for you. The safety report also deals with this matter in a very obsessive form. I quote: "In order not to get wrong conclusions on foreign crime, relativization should also take place with the foreigners in Austria, in order not to run the risk of overestimating the number of foreign suspects in absolute terms and in comparison with the domestic suspects." So we should not believe that foreign crime plays a role in Austria. But the security report then rejects this preface with figures, ladies and gentlemen. The figures in the safety report speak a clear language. Since 1988, foreign crime has been growing consistently, by a total of 150 percent in criminal acts and by almost 400 percent in crimes. This results in a share of 20.8 percent of total crime and a share of 30.3 percent of foreigners in crime. In the cities, and there in turn in districts with a high proportion of foreigners, the percentage is much higher, for example, in the 16th century. Wiener Gemeinde district at 42 percent. Minister! It is already remarkable how you react to this development, for example with incomprehensible instructions, which obviously should serve to build a multicultural executive. For example, there was a post invitation to tender of the special kind on instructions from Minister of the Interior Caspar One for the Vienna security guard. For a training course, only persons who were familiar with one of the foreign languages of Croatian, Serbian, Serbian or Turkish were allowed to apply. 25 candidates should be included. Especially interesting: The required minimum number of points was 139 out of a total of 950 to be reached. So the latte was not particularly high, Mr Minister, but still, one says and hears, only three out of 45 candidates have met the requirements. Your plan to bring this multicultural experiment to the stage at the expense of Austrian safety is probably to be seen as a failure. – Your multicultural executive will probably continue to be a dream for you. Minister! At first it is obvious that in many cases you may not have grown your job. It also shows the example of off-systemization of planning sites that in your ministry apparently the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. There is a decree to all Security Directorates and to the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna on the de-systemisation of planning stations – I quote –: In the course of the preparation of the Federal Financial Laws for the years 1996 and 1997, the mandate is to systemize 264 posts for 1996 and 254 posts for 1997. – Date 15. ==References====External links== Sika. On the 20th of the same month, this decree shall be withdrawn. – Minister! This is just an example of many for the fact that in your ministry there is obviously chaos. An example of this is that the left does not know what the rights are doing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is no wonder, therefore, that a chaotic minister with a clear impact on the left will not make any progress in the big, unsolved crimes, ladies and gentlemen. At the letter bombs, the alleged perpetrators had to be run. In Klagenfurt, there is obviously not the slightest trace, and the case of Oberwart, Minister, becomes more susspecter from week to week: Since the last debate in this House, there have been other strange details of this case. I refer to the television broadcast "Report", to the story around the leather jacket, to the story around the loop tracks that were clearly seen in this broadcast. Minister! These are inconsistencies of the extra class that require an investigation. What actually happened there? – Eight hours lie between the incident and the initiation of the investigations. What happened in these eight hours, Minister? I refer to an article in the "Small Newspaper" of the 3. May 1996: The traces of Oberwart lead to Ebergassing. Interestingly, the car of an ebergassing assassin was discovered two weeks after the attack of Oberwart twelve kilometers from the crime scene. Minister! ==References====External links== A car was found near Markt Allhau, twelve kilometres from Oberwart. The car lacked everything that could have pointed to the vehicle holder. There were no number boards, no papers, almost everything was missing. But through the engine number, the holder of the licence could be eroded, and this holder is one of the later suspects of Ebergassing! This holder is Mr Koni#ek, Minister. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What do you say, Minister?]] Further information on this brilliant passenger car find, which has been in the Ministry of the Interior since February of the previous year, is not to be obtained. Minister! What was the label of this car? – Is it perhaps identical with a label on the list available in the Upper Roma settlement? Is this label also available on this list? Where is this list? Why has this list disappeared, Mr. Minister? – Questions about questions! Very slowly, this story becomes more than strange. There are more and more questions and no answer – almost a year and a half after the attack. Many tend to give faith to those who claim that all these inconsistencies are directly related to a ban on detention in the left-wing terrorist scene. I also believe that something true is in place when the "Kronen-Zeitung" was published on 22 February. March writes that in this respect there is a ban on detention in the left-wing terrorist scene. What the state politician criticizes in his book "Treason to Austria" is likely to be obvious. The rumor about the connections towards Vienna member of the anarchist scene with best contacts to radical Kurdish organizations should also have a true background. Are there really traces of common acquaintances from here in Parliament? Are there really links here in Parliament and in the Kirchweger House? Are there any links from here to Oberwart, Mr. Minister? – These are the questions we will ask you for so long until you answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I ask you again: Why was the Gendarmerie in Oberwart so late in understanding? Why wasn't the police called immediately after a detonation that was to be heard all over the place? Who has changed the crime scene before the arrival of the Gendarmerie, the police, the EBT, Minister? Where's the list of the numbers of suspect cars? – The markings are said to have been from St. Veit or Spittal, which are said to have been Escorts and Orions. Where is the number of the white Mazda 626 with Hartberger label? Minister! Why was the local Kripo excluded from the investigations? Why is the lubrication action initiated by "NEWS" editors still concealed in this context? Why has the assurance of evidence been prevented? And why deny the local investigative authorities the act? Why is the hearing of suspects aborted in Vienna, broken down on instructions? Minister! It appears that authorities are constantly being hindered in their investigations if a new direction of investigation is to be taken. I do not need to quote Mr Sika anymore, the quote is known, but all these things give the impression that the investigators are constantly under political pressure. Minister! Have you ever considered the fact that there are crimes whose main purpose is to suspect others and thus get a pretext for further or other measures? – An analytical discussion with the findings you have received should have long since led to the identification in a direction which is also expected to progress, Minister. If all of this is not true, Mr Minister, then you are outraging the accusations. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Disprove the accusation that you are not being determined in all directions! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Only success in reconnaissance is a suitable way to make your critics, to whom I count, dumb!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5156	The next speaker is Mr Elmecker. Talk time 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5177	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, a few comments on the comments made by my predecessor. He complained that the education rate in Austria was too low. I would like to point out that Austria is one of those countries where the education rate is high, which is almost 50 percent. That is, any second crime or crime can be resolved. I would, however, like to add – and this is particularly important – that in the serious and serious crimes, the Enlightenment Rate is more than 90 percent thanks to God. [[Call the Freeman: What do you say to the Chief?]] Of course, the fact that we have problems especially with property offences, in the shop thefts – that is the so-called small crime – is understandable, because this makes the investigation extremely difficult. But you, Mr Schweitzer, have kept this short. You, Mr Schweitzer, also meant that there is nothing to do with organised crime in our country. I would like to point out, however, that both of the Federal Ministers have already presented a government proposal to the House on this matter. A subcommittee which has already been set up provides advice on new methods of investigation against organised crime. Foreign crime: I would like to create a march from the world in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! In a country whose borders happen to more than 200 million people each year – 80 million guests alone in Vienna, tourists – of course, there is an increasing crime to be expected. That's a fact. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You talk like the blind one about the color!]] However, I would like to stress that only a small increase in the number of guest workers in particular – Mr Scheibner, read the report exactly! – in the case of crime. [[Abg. Scheibner: Speak of the 200,000 illegals!]] This is not exorbitantly higher compared to that of the domestics. Make Please do not make the mistake and do not say that every foreigner is automatically criminal. That's what we're going to reject! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The Illegals!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The tourists are being criminalized by you!]] I would like to say to the plan post reduction, which my previous speaker also made: The entire Federal Government has undertaken to save in the public service. Of course, this also applies to the field of executives. However, the executive was excluded on one point, and it was decided in the last Council of Ministers that the stopover for the executive was no longer valid. – These were a few comments on the comments made by my predecessor. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Don't talk about the hot bridle around!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now I would like to make a few comments on the report on internal security. It has been criticised in the Committee that we are only now able to discuss the 1994 safety report. As you know, this security report is dealt with in two parts: part is the report of the Ministry of the Interior, and part of it is the report of the Ministry of Justice. I think that in the future we could also conduct the discussion separately: On the one hand, we could discuss the entire security report, as it is today, but on the other hand we should also have the opportunity to talk about criminal statistics when they appear. We have been presented with criminal statistics from 1995 at the request of the Committee on the Interior of the Federal Minister, and the figures in them are not uninteresting. I would like to explain some of them. In the whole area of criminal acts against body and life, there is a 1.7 percent drop, of which 7.8 percent in crimes. There is a decrease of 4.3 percent in criminal acts against foreign property, in the crimes in this area such as 5.5 percent. In criminal acts against morality, a drop of 21.3 percent can be observed, with crimes in this area such as 15.1 percent. This results in a downturn of 3.6 percent in the total, with crimes such as 5.9 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! These are figures from the 1995 criminal statistics: In all areas of crime, thanks be to God a decline! Now I would like to take the opportunity to give a member of the opposition, namely Mr Anschober. He said in committee – and I can only stress this; I hope he says it today in plenary: Considering, in general, the situation of internal security in Austria, Austria can be described as a safe country. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] I have noted positively that we can see a decline in serious crimes. I should also like to mention a few figures. In murder there was a drop of 9.2 percent, in body injuries with fatal outcome a decrease of 14.3 percent, in the severe thefts a decrease of 4.7 percent, in the theft and in the breakdown a decrease of 4.9 percent, in the robbery a decrease of 13.9 percent. These figures speak for themselves. However, I would also like to mention the information quotas in these areas, which are particularly worth mentioning. We can record a 91.6 percent in criminal acts against body and life. That's a very, very good number. In the case of crimes in this area, the investigation rate is 94 percent. In criminal acts against foreign property, the education rate is 35.6 percent; I have tried to explain this before. In criminal acts against morality, an information rate of 81.8 percent was reported. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at these figures soberly and objectively, you can see – and I would like to do this from this point on – that our security authorities are doing good work for the benefit of the people of this country. Thank you publicly for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For us Social Democrats, ladies and gentlemen, safety is a comprehensive concept: It includes social security, employment security and also protection against crime. We know about the social conditions under which crime arises, and we see in the creation of social conditions that counter this, the best means of protecting the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that we have succeeded in a good part, ladies and gentlemen, is underlined by the fact that people in Austria can live safely and safely. In order for Austria to continue to be one of the safest countries, we Socialists are also primarily committed to the development of preventive measures. I would like to link the term "security" with that of prevention in the discussion. Surveys have shown that people worldwide are afraid of crime: increasing violence, drugs, terrorism and extremism, foreign and migration problems, human rights violations and corruption. In principle, therefore, two requirements are met for the executive: On the one hand, everyday problems such as the provision of assistance, the regulation of transport and the Enlightenment of Small Crime are to be solved, on the other hand, more and more professionalism is required to deal with the fight against cross-border crime. Ladies and gentlemen! I used the last meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs to invite you to a special unit. The professionalism of the executive was spoken of, we can demonstrate and prove members of the Committee on the Interior by example of a special unit here, namely at the Vienna alarm department. We got this brochure from which I would like to quote. Among other things, it says – quote –: "The population rightly demands that their police be constantly committed, well-trained and motivated, as well as professional action even in economically difficult times and in phases of new societal challenges." . This is precisely what our executive meets, and I believe that this is the subject of the debate on the security report. Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss the term "security", we also need to talk about objective security. I know that sometimes the subjective sense of security is different from objective security, especially when media reports discuss a serious incident. Then the media may arouse feelings that do not correspond to the objective facts. The extent and structure of crime in Austria are quite similar to those of other European countries. Austria has long grown into a criminal geographical unit with Europe and forms almost a single market for criminal transactions by international criminal organisations. The Enlightenment Rate has increased in Austria in recent years thanks to God. With reference to all registered crimes without negligent physical injury, the investigation rate was about 50 percent. Political, economic and social changes in Europe, especially in our eastern and southeastern neighbours, have not only changed the quantity and structure of crime, but also the quality. New forms of crime are gaining in importance, such as economic, computer, check and credit card crime or environmental crime. Persecutors and organizations increasingly work more professionally and use intellectual skills, modern technologies and means of communication. In individual areas of crime, mainly foreigners are suspects, for example in the areas of drug crime and burglary, as well as in the area of trafficking in human beings. In addition, there is internationalisation and mobilization, especially in the area of organised crime. I therefore believe that we are well advised to deal quickly with the government's proposal on the new methods of investigation and then to adopt them in order to give the executive more opportunities. Under the condition of cooperation with the judiciary, funds will have to be chosen to deal with organised crime. Ladies and gentlemen! In society, despite the prosperity, gaps have developed. The cornerstones of our defense system are family and school, but they have suffered great damage. In the last decades when we have brought it to prosperity, many things have gone out of the joints. That makes us vulnerable! – also in an article, Mr. Director-General for Public Security, Mag. Sika. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of crime prevention must therefore be to prevent both the primary prevention of the causes of crime at all as well as secondary precautions against continuations and repetitions if, despite all, a crime has occurred. The prevention idea has developed from the criminal police prevention according to the English example of the Community Crime Prevention to the Community Polishing. In § 25 SPG, there is the possibility that security authorities to prevent dangerous attacks against people's lives, health and property will promote the individual's willingness and ability to learn about a threat to his property and to prevent attacks accordingly. In addition, it is up to the security authorities to promote projects that can serve to prevent dangerous offences and offences. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to point out once again, as I did in the last safety report, examples already available in Vienna, but also in Schwechat, namely the so-called security forums, cooperation with the population, a close-up with the population. The security situation on the ground will be discussed together with the population and then the relevant concepts will be developed. Pillars of these concepts should be: first, the common security concept with the citizen, second partnership without anonymity, third link with other institutions, fourth decentralisation, internal dialogue and fifth overview in small units. Prevention in the criminal sense is the whole of all public and private efforts to prevent criminal offences. Primary prevention combats crime at the roots and secondary prevention at the surface, and tertiary prevention means perpetrator-oriented action, for example, perpetrator-offer compensation, social training courses, measures of resocialization and more. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can say here that at the beginning of 1994 Community Polishing was started at the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna. The opportunities of this strategy lie in the fight against crime from the root. Instead of the exclusive demand for more police and civil defence, the citizen should be involved in answering security issues. The adoption of responsibility by citizens and the recognition of the actual burden of crime should improve the subjective sense of security. The new form of living cooperation between citizens and police creates a well-founded relationship of trust. Police work is not only limited to the fire brigade function, it will come when it is needed, but it will become more comprehensive and professional. The objective discussion of the safety report before us today proves that this is successful. Finally, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to express once again to the Federal Minister and to the entire executive respect and recognition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5307	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Please, honourable Member. Talk time 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5331	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can say: Every year again, we discuss a non-current security report. Federal Minister! That must not be so in the long run! In the middle of 1996, the 1994 Security Report will be discussed, and next year we will discuss the 1995 Security Report. I believe that it is time for us to find ways in this House to come to an up-to-date discussion on the situation of internal security in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary to further develop the so-called safety report so far into an actual state report in order to find out what it really looks like with internal security in our country. Then: What is currently being presented to Parliament is, when comparing the safety reports of the various years, no more than a writing-off. Only the numbers are new, are up-to-date. These are statistical players. In addition, this safety report lacks topicality, because many concrete projects that were already in progress – for example 1994 – have not been mentioned at all, such as the assistance of the German army or a clear analysis of the state of our executives. I therefore believe that it is necessary – that is to say the objective of future security reports – that we should come to a comprehensive analysis of the security situation in our country, that we should also hear a critical assessment of the condition of the executive from the mouth of the Minister of the Interior and that, above all, we can read proposals for the interior minister's perspective and reform in the security report. Federal Minister! It must not be taken for granted that, after consulting with the Ministry of Justice and then with the Statistical Central Office, whose quality we have recently learned, it will take half a year or three quarters before the report is presented to Parliament. I therefore believe that we should take up the proposal made by Mr Elmecker, namely that the Minister of the Interior has to inform Parliament about the data on the crime statistics of the year in question, if he has them - and he has them relatively soon - to inform Parliament about them. It would not then happen that Members and the security spokesmen and Parliament will be informed by the media about the current figures. We can then have a discussion on this, and a comprehensive safety report will then be presented to the House half a year or three quarters later. I think this is a common path, and we should take it. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on today's security report also gives us the opportunity to discuss current security issues in this country. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for receiving, at the request of the Committee, the latest statistical figures on the development of crime statistics in Austria. Thankfully, Mr Elmecker has already made these figures known to the House, and they have been included in the Minutes. I would just like to say that, according to these documents, there has actually been a decline in the area of crime in Austria. This is an absolutely positive development, which must be mentioned quite openly here. The specific number of crime cases is already below that of 1993 – I say: Thank God! – and this development points to a stabilisation in the area of crime. This is a positive development, but it must not, however, lead to harmonizing, because of developments in organised crime and drug crime alone. That is where we need action, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would be really irresponsible to call Austria as an unsafe country, it would be irresponsible to take a wrong course now, namely to call for the emergency and continue to call on police methods. I don't think that's what the conditions are. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, there will always be crime. There has been crime in the past, there is now and will also exist in the future. But Austria can also be seen in the international field with its development in crime statistics. Nevertheless, Mr. Federal Minister, I am concerned about the condition of the executive. There are a large number of really dedicated officials who have done their duty very well and, through their contact with the population, have contributed to the fact that the people have great confidence in our police and in our Gendarmerie, in our security forces – this should also be mentioned here: After all, the police, together with the National Bank, rank first in the scale of trust; with at least 70 percent consent! – but these dedicated officials must increasingly work under really unreasonable conditions – be it in the field of accommodation, whether in the field of service and remuneration. But there are also special units – and this is a positive note – within the Committee on the Interior we had the opportunity to visit the special units of the Gendarmerie, the Vienna Security Directorate – which have a very high standard of training, a high level of skill, a team spirit, whose skills and willingness to use can also be seen internationally. However, I am very concerned that these gentlemen cannot enjoy any real service benefits due to their qualifications, that they are not used preferably for higher functions, that they are not preferably used in the context of their recruitment, in the context of remuneration. Federal Minister! It is necessary to take measures and steps in this regard, otherwise we will generate frustration and disappointment from those officials who have high qualifications and use them in the interests of the safety of our people. I think, Mr Federal Minister, that due to the failure I have just mentioned, a certain potential for radicalisation is that the officials – and this is the worst thing that can happen – are going into internal emigration. It would be more appropriate and more effective – I appeal to you to see this as one of your priority measures – to promote these positive forces accordingly. On the other hand, I must also note that in the executive there are also unreliable forces that harm the reputation and reputation of the executive. In this context, I would just like to point out some recent events: the incomprehensible call for the resignation of the Minister of the Interior, a member of the government authorized by Parliament, by the staff representation, by the Freedoms or by the ÖVP, and to the close bodies in your ministry, Mr. Bundesminister Einm. It is inconceivable to note that confidential information from the department is coming to the public – whether it be information from the state police, whether it be information to you, Mr Minister, in person – so that loyalty to party headquarters is greater than loyalty to the department management. There are also black sheep who organise drug partitions in their services or provide blank signatures for the introduction to the psychiatry. I call on you, Mr Federal Minister, to defend the beginnings and to take decisive action against these black sheep in the executive! However, I do not want to say that is the overall state of the executive. There are some misbehaviors, but in total you, Mr Federal Minister, need action to deal rigorously with these misdemeanors! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For me, the complaints of the President of Vienna are surprising. Obviously this gentleman is overwhelmed because he is now sorry about the incidents in the security office and thinks that the staff representation would be too strong. I think that this representative of staff belongs even to his own group, namely the Social Democrats. He also said he had no authority of personnel. – Ladies and gentlemen! If that is true, then only on the basis of these statements by the President of the Police, will there be those structural weaknesses that could have been eliminated for a long time, those personal political mistakes that have been committed in the past and whose elimination is immediately necessary, or are there immediately to start profound reforms, Minister of State! From our point of view, the reforms in the field of executives are an hour's commandment, because the citizen has a right to security, protection against crime and crime. From our point of view, it is the duty of the state to ensure the greatest possible protection for citizens in our country, but – and I would like to stress this particularly – with minimal need for restriction of personal freedom or fundamental and freedom rights. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say it again: We therefore see no need for action and no need for additional police measures. I would therefore like to make a clear rejection of the Coalition Government's plan to decide on a noise attack and grid arrest during this legislative period. I also reject the planned legalization of the "mental health cardi". Ladies and gentlemen! We will take decisive action against such measures. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why we ask you, Minister of State, to embark immediately on an internal reform of the executive. It is a question of actually anchoring leadership responsibility to seek new ways of dealing with internal conflicts, rather than the previously anonymous ads, it is an open debate. We want to improve cooperation between executives and citizens – we say yes to the citizens' forum that Mr Elmecker has chosen. Federal Minister! Bring it in at last, not only in the area of the Security Directorate Vienna, but in the whole federal area! Create the necessary legal basis for this. I believe that the internal reform of the executive also requires appropriate training in the field of human leadership. This is a very important point that needs to be addressed. The second block of reform concerns training, Federal Minister. As part of the training reform, it must be ensured that there is a permissiveness within the system, that the practitioners, all those who have gained experience in the field of employment at the services, also have the opportunity to complete a qualified training, a higher management training, in order to be used in higher management positions. Federal Minister! I'll go back to the Security Academy. I would ask the colleagues in the Social Democracy to see that the promise made in the context of two fundamental principles for this Security Academy is also being met. Ladies and gentlemen! We also call for continuous vocational training and training, but also for a strengthening of training in international cooperation, in international cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! It does not harm – this is not to be assessed negatively and not to be seen negatively – although Austrian citizens who do not have German as their mother tongue are admitted to the police service. I believe that this would also be a measure to act very specifically against the crime that is being brought from outside our country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What I also want from you, Mr Federal Minister, is a structural reform in the executive. You will not escape – even if you oppose it, even if you repeatedly invent all kinds of excuses and arguments – to create a uniform executive corps. So far, there is no argument against it – at least I have not heard any argument against it – but all the arguments are that we are finally creating clear structures, that we should eliminate the double liquefactions that are just given, and that we are, above all, outsourcing the activities of other types of activity in the services. This would lead to a substantial discharge in the area of the Commissioners of the Federal Police Directorates and also in the area of the Gendarmerie Departments. Federal Minister! These reform measures, particularly in the area of infrastructure, would release capacity which you could then use in order to actually implement, implement and implement the long-needed reinforcements in individual areas and the necessary building-up measures and arrangements to be carried out for the The area of the border army has been announced for years, but has not been implemented effectively and efficiently by your ministry. These capacity shifts will give you the opportunity to humanise the border army accordingly, to increase the number of groups to combat terrorism, to combat organised crime, to fight addiction and to use qualified personnel there. They thus create the conditions for doing even more than before for security in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! We will eagerly face the reforms of the State Police and the Border Army. Federal Minister! We expect you to act decisively in this regard – then you will also have our political support. But we have no understanding at all of this if you continue your announcement policy or those of your predecessor and do nothing to work out the failures of the past, and continue the old Schlendrian. I come to the conclusion. From our point of view, regarding the assessment of safety in Austria: The safety in Austria does not give rise to hysteria. We see no need for police action. However, existing crime must not be impoverished. However, this safety report clearly shows us – once again – that there is a great need for reform in your department, Mr. Federal Minister, for past failures and for major reform. Therefore, we will not give our approval to the Liberals to this safety report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5498	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5519	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Because we have heard from previous speakers, first a very plastic number that illustrates the overall problem: If there are about 500 000 crimes in Austria every year – crimes and crimes – this is a number with which we cannot all start too much together. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's more than enough!]] If we put them on the minutes of 1994, this means that every minute in Austria we had to commit a crime and a crime. A crime and a crime occur statistically in Austria every minute; I believe that this number is already saying more. That makes it clear how it must go if we are to discuss the security and the security report in 1994 in this House. The ÖVP stands out from its basic understanding of a strong democracy. We have always said that violence and crime must be fought by all means of the rule of law. Body and life, freedom and property for citizens are really efficient to protect as central legal assets. That will be so if we bear responsibility! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Mr Kiss! You do it, you just don't see it!]] We are concerned by the total crime that has been commuting at this high level of about 500 000 crimes annually. Although it is not the case, as Mr Schweitzer has pointed out in a rather indifferent way – it was a black painting; I have not registered grey tones, no intermediate tones, I have only heard attacks on the Minister of the Interior, nor have I any concept of how the liberals of the problem would be mastered. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, that's really incredible!]] However, this indifferent way does not contribute to solutions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ads you wanted the Minister!]] We of the ÖVP have always understood us to be a party that sees the problems, analyses them and contributes to solving the problems! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In general, here in Parliament: Austria is an uncertain country!, says the facts hohn. The international comparison confirms: Austria is – and Austria should stay – a safe country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Because this is already happening in this undifferentiated way, a clear and open word by me as security spokesperson of the ÖVP: I do not want to highlight the executive's achievements here. Enlightenment rates are excellent. This is an achievement that thousands and thousands of executives perform in this country day after day for the citizens of Austria, and that is to thank them. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have the Minister's confidence again? What about the abuse of office?]] It is important for us to differentiate throughout the argumentation. – I am still taking it out that there and there an objective criticism in the field of content. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ads you wanted him!]] I take it to make suggestions as to how things went better. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ÖVP – in the government only more without one!]] I am not going to let go of it in the future, to say how we, the Austrian People's Party, are helping this country to achieve greater security in implementing our EIA security package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Burgenish voters will tell you that!]] I am not one, Mr Schweitzer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Reichhold, who says: Everything that this Minister of the Interior does, everything he does, is basically bad, objectionable and evil. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you wanted to show him!]] That was the tenor that emerged from this speech. I'm the one who differentiates and says: Of course, there are many things to be suspended from our Minister for the Interior. Where is that not? There is also that with me, including you, Mr Schweitzer. Who is free of any criticism? That is to say, in the matter hard, fair, constructive, but in the person who judges from occasion to occasion. But one thing is undisputed: When it comes to security in this country, the Minister of the Interior has us on his side because we know that we are committed to our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The security package presented by the EIA would, and we are convinced of it, and that is why we stand for it, set out a series of measures that we believe are good for this country and good for these people. For example, we believe that the police and the gendarm visible to the citizens is more important than that in the office. I know you can say that this is too plausible to be simplified. In reality, however, we are talking about relief from the man in the office, taking away the bureaucrats' frame, to be able to say: You have to carry out tasks where the citizen needs you. Because only then do we work preventively when the individual has the feeling: Yes, I do! I can see "my" police, "my" gendarmen, he's in Montur, I can register his office cap. – By doing so, we automatically contribute to the subjective sense of security of each individual. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All of us are talking about an administrative reform, a simplification of bureaucratic processes. In the area of decentralisation of responsibility, e.g., Enormes can be achieved. If we are able to strengthen the local security level if we manage to assign more tasks to the individual post-commanding staff and thus create more identification and motivation in the individual Commissioners at the base, then we are on the right track. [[Abg. Scheibner: For that you have abolished them all?! There's no more!]] And with this security package, this path is to be taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why did you close all the posts?]] Now to Mr Moser's comments. He rightly agreed that there had already been groundbreaking for the establishment of a security academy; two even, I can remember that this happened in the previous days of the 1994 National Council elections. And that is one point where, as far as the content is concerned, we are in favour of the Minister if he wants to implement what we all want: more skills, better training, international networking and therefore the highest quality standard for our safety executive. Minister! Here we are with you! Only: We need to do it! We do not leave you out of the responsibility, but we even demand your responsibility! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Now also an opinion from my point of view on new electronic investigation methods: This presentation is in the Committee on Justice, is assigned to a Subcommittee and it is important for me to place my personal opinion on this presentation here. In general, I believe: It cannot be said that the serious criminals, the criminals, the mafia with the Porsche, using the most modern means of telecommunications in that country, express this society, while the executive officers have to drive the puzzle. That's not going to happen! I am committed to giving our security executive the opportunity to make available to them the instruments that enable them, massively, concretely, consistently against organized crime, even against terrorism, so that it may be "chaste of organized crime!" means, "Certain terrorism!" – That’s my opinion, and that’s what I stand for. However, all of this must be done with respect to the protection of fundamental rights, while involving justice, because I believe that justice in particular is a guarantee that there is no expropriation of concerns, fears and needs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to give an example of how cooperation within a coalition, in which cooperation between the Minister of the Interior and the ÖVP can go as a coalition partner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now it will be interesting!]] Last Friday, the Foreign Rights Change Act was submitted for review. This review has led to months of consistent negotiations. It was a ringing around a common line, it was a negotiation, it was a conversation as it could not be exemplary. And on Friday, the joint result was presented by both coalition partners – the Interior Minister and our clubman Andreas Khol. I'm at this conclusion. I was allowed to join in the negotiations, to think, to share in it, and I know that this result is a good result, and I am convinced that it is also good for our country and good for the people we have to lead in this country – whether it be foreigners or foreigners – into a common future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And that it's good, yesterday's press conferences by Dr. Haider and Dr. Schmidt have proven sustainable. At the same time, in his press conference on the Foreign Rights Change Act, Haider calls for a stop from immigration, even a second people's desire, because "masses" from other foreigners will cross Austria, they come across our permeable borders into the country. - That's what Haider said. At the same time, Heide Schmidt says: That's a scandal! With this Law on Foreign Rights, the borders in this country are so close that no foreigner comes in at all. - So what's right now? Is that true, what Haider says – or is that true, what Schmidt says? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Both!]] [[Abg. Moser: What we say!]] I say: No, it is true that what we are saying on the part of the coalition is that this law is becoming a good law, taking into account all the intentions I have spoken about before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Refugees yes, but immigrants no!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Before the elections you said something else!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In those ten minutes in which I have now spoken – and so actually my argumentative circle closes... [[Abg. Wabl: Thank God!]] I take it with regret that you are "Thank God!" Oh, my God. In these ten minutes, if we are allowed to believe in statistics, ten crimes and crimes are happening in Austria. We work together on the goal we want to achieve: more security – less crime! The ÖVP is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5851	The next item is the speech by Mr Anschober. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5872	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer! – Oh, God, now he's no longer there, sorry about it! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: What, really?]] I wanted to tell him something, maybe he'll hear me anyway, maybe it'll be directed to him. [[Abg. Aumayr: We judge it to him.]] I have always thought that in right groups the terms "honor" and "remor" have real weight. With the argument of crime data and the content of the 1994 Security Report, Mr Schweitzer has tried to act here politically towards the Minister of the Interior. I must say that if he had been in committee, he would at least know that this safety report concerns 1994, and there was Dr. Ain't a minister in this government, not an interior minister. And if a minister is already responsible for this, it is his predecessor, and that was the supposed "best man of the FPÖ in the Federal Government". I wonder, Mr Schweitzer: Where's the fidelity from your side? There's something wrong with the line of reasoning. It is true, however, that it is not the representatives of the FPÖ who have argued in the Committee on the Safety Report that take the floor here, but that the leader of the Federal Government is taking the floor here. That's what you've already noticed... [[Abg. Scheibner: Look at the list of speakers!]] There were other people in committee, Mr Scheibner, for example. In any case, it is noted that these performances are purely about party political polemics and not about the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have done my utmost to read the minutes on the debates of the last six years on the safety reports in question. And what Mr Schweitzer has given of himself is the same thing that we have been hearing for six years, a security-political panic, a distortion of the facts and figures, except for a few changes in the sentence. – That’s not how it can be done! When you try an ancient cocoa – keyword: For the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh time, boil up in this house, then it will not be more original, then it will not become more true, then it will not at least increase the truth content of this old cocoa. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because these are your friends!]] But you see: Generate with these poles In your speeches – as far as conspiracy and distractions in this matter are concerned – you do not even have the mood in this House! And that should make you think about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does the security situation look like? I do not think it can be a question of doing harmonizing. Every single crime that happens in this country is too much of a crime. There is certainly consensus in this House, but it cannot be addressed – and I look back towards FPÖ – simply not to take note of the realities, even if it does not fit into your party policy. The security situation of Austria is no reason for panic. If we compare this security situation internationally, for example with neighbouring countries, if we consider what geopolitical situation Austria has, that in Austria we have about 200 million border crossings a year, that we are a marked tourist country et cetera, then we have to conclude – especially if we look at the long-term comparison – that the security situation in Austria is relatively good. If you had made the most of your efforts to study police crime statistics for 1995 as a complement to the 1994 Security Report, you would have seen that the crime rates – thank God! – continue to decline and the levels of education continue to rise slightly. And that's the right trend. I think it is a question of having a debate here on how we can reinforce this right trend, which reforms have been announced, so that we can work even more efficiently. And in order not only to improve the objective security situation in this country, but also to improve the subjective sense of security of the population, one must appeal to the responsibility of each party. Because it is not right to act like an elephant in this porcelain shop "security feeling" out of party political motives – in the hope of a few voices when panic is created. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's the point. Moreover, this trend continued in the first quarter of 1996: less crime and more information, and it is about strengthening this trend. Secondly, it is a matter of setting firm signs in the field of prevention. If we are now so far as a committee on prevention is concerned as an action of some old '68s' who believe that we can solve tomorrow's problems by means of yesterday's funds, then I am convinced that we are on the wrong steamer. Let's just look at the crime group of crimes against body and life: an almost 100 percent reconnaissance rate, that's sensational, and there you have to say – also from the Greens: Hat off before this reconnaissance rate! But where do most of these crimes happen against body and life? – It is currently happening – which is also statistically recognizable – mainly in the family sector. And there you can't work with more weapons, with better equipment, with even more executives alone, but here it is – to give an example – about prevention measures to help to gradually decompose and dismantle this structural violence, this everyday violence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, positive trends must not mean that there is no courage to take action. Let us look at what is one of the most common crime groups, which is currently the largest risk area in Austria: This is still the road traffic. And precisely when it comes to such questions, where concrete measures could be taken in terms of road transport – for example, the reduction of the promill limit from 0.8 to 0.5, a reduction of this sad "slaughterfield" road – were shown to be a safety step, those who rightly demand more and more safety, those who are hiding against these measures and who vote against 0.5 promille, namely from pure populism. But if one no longer remains true to one's own principles, I wonder how serious the security policy approach and the security policy discussions are on this side. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is a basically right trend from the approach to the decline in crime figures, a basically right trend in improving the investigation, but there are still three major areas of problem in Austrian security policy, and these three major areas of problem need to be discussed. The first problem area – and we have experienced this again in the last few days – is the handling of the executive with affairs. Whenever something happens – and in which business group, profession group et cetera does nothing happen; where do not affairs happen, where is there no maladministration? – is the first reaction: Swamm over it, nothing will have been done! Do not slander our executive! And immediately there are slanders against those who have brought the affairs to light. – This is the wrong way for an executive to show that it is ready for reform. At the drug scandal in the Vienna security office, we are now experiencing this wrong path again, for days: Swamm over, nothing will have been, just no slanders. Immediately, there are ads and threats against people who bring affairs into the role and public. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is the epitome of reform inability. And I am shocked that, for example, the head of the Security Bureau, Mr. Edelbacher, I know that from many, many Interna, I turn to the public and say: Please take this crisis – and this is also my thesis – as an opportunity to finally realize those reforms that are necessary and overdue. He literally said: "I have tried and failed since I took office in 1990." – That’s what the head of the Vienna Security Bureau says. He has failed in a bureaucracy, an apparatus, he has failed to represent personnel, he has failed in disciplinary law, in the necessary reform et cetera. I believe that it is a matter of drawing together and not only talking, but also of implementing these reform steps, where there are some areas of consensus between the parties. Training reform, for example, is long overdue, training measures are the same. Let's look at the situation of drug addicts: The fact that there is largely without psychological care is impossible, is inhuman, towards all concerned. This stress situation, this conflict situation, constantly working in an environment in which one is obviously sometimes caught by it itself, and since no support, no support, no supervision, no supervision, is unbearable! While there is the offer to voluntarily perform a supervision in this area, there is a person available for this supervision. This means that it is important to use the crisis as an opportunity to implement reforms and to implement the necessary measures: salary reform, overtime reduction and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, there is enough material. We have reintroduced a whole range of ten parliamentary requests during this legislative period, which have already been introduced during the last legislative period, which outline precisely these reform measures and try to enforce them quickly. It has been mentioned in Austria for a decade about the overdue reform of the executive in sub-areas. Nothing has been done so far. I hope that this time it will not be the announcement again, but that the Minister of the Interior will be able to achieve the first "revelations" now – over a year after his appointment – because otherwise he will remain or will become the "minister of announcement". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second area: next to the question of managing the affairs of the Austrian intelligence services. This is worrying, an uncertainty factor of the highest degree in this Republic, namely the Austrian State Police and military intelligence. If one said a year ago that the Austrian state police were dizzy like a "nudel sieve", "deeply like a Swiss Emmentaler" and underwent "maul cubes" like an unscrupulous squeezing species for years and decades, then one has been called a slanderer. – In the meantime, no one gets upset about it, everyone says, so it is. We are facing a massive problem here. Thank God it is now so far in this regard that courts have acted against official abuses. I would like to see effective action taken to achieve real success. But the punishment and realization of abuses alone is not enough. In the field of Austrian intelligence services, we need a comprehensive reform, a total reform, not a referendum, just as I am afraid of all that is going on, which makes a coalition team out of an interior police station, from a state police force with blue content and red roof a state police force with red and black roof and again blue content. That cannot be the point and the goal of an overall reform! We need a comprehensive reform of the services, where there is a need to implement synergies between services, where citizens' rights need to be strengthened and where Parliament's control possibilities need to be substantially strengthened. What is happening at present in the parliamentary control committees is control-placebo, is to pretend false facts. There is no way here and no opportunity to actually control the intelligence services – which would be the task of this House in a enlightened democracy. If one compares the situation of Austrian parliamentary control with the PKK – not fear of my masters from the FPÖ – this is not a dangerous association, but the parliamentary control commission of the German Bundestag – then one notices enormous quality differences. There, each member of the committee can obtain a record. A meeting on this subject will be held on a regular basis, at least once a month. We have a six-month term of office, we have no right of access to documents for each member, even my requests for local eye-catching in these committees – Mr Ofner knows that, he is represented in this committee – have been rejected with the "argument": What do we need that for? After this request concerning local eye-catching was rejected by the State Police, even the Minister of the Interior has declared: Please look at them, you are cordially invited, ladies and gentlemen! We don't have as much to hide as you think. – So the wall is made rather than controlled. It can't go on like this! Third area – and this is a huge risk scenario as regards the security of Austria – is this latent, ongoing cut-off and destruction of citizens' rights. This is a situation that is dramatic. There are some specific cases and specific examples of what happens in the case of telephone surveillance, which is already material due to the density of the state police apparatus. That's terrifying. There, existences are destroyed, there are people constantly being slandered who have not deserved it. – As far as the status quo. To do this, the most dangerous basic right-wing instrument, the "big loop attack", is still to be put into the hands of this device – unreformed and without massive change. That's not responsible! I believe that every expert who knows the state of military services and the state police must say, at least because of this real state of affairs, that in this situation, the introduction of the big noise attack is simply irrational, because one can abandon what happens continuously with the materials – just as it is now – only then there are much more sensitive materials about completely innocent citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If I get a request from the FPÖ and read in it that the investigators in the future should not only put the cheeks in the affected apartment, but even in the neighboring apartments, I must already ask myself: What spirit is behind that? That is, I have to choose as a affected citizen in the future, next to whom I live: Could that possibly be a victim of the noise attack: yes or no? That's the FPÖ application. That's not how it can go – at least I hope. The last point concerns the reduction of civil rights. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the very end of May, we will be discussing in the main committee the issue of the implementing provisions on EUROPOL. This is where proposals are on the table, which are also worrying at European level. The privacy of the citizens is being used in a very massive way. In the future, data from "potential suspects" will also be available at European level – via EUROPOL and the European Information System. There are categories that have absolutely nothing to do with a traditional personal record: The state of health and health of the person, the question of religious confession, the housing situation and, literally, the political attitude. This leads to the Europe of the "great brother", my dear ladies and gentlemen! Orwell might be pleased that his forecasts have been found to look at this situation. This is a situation where Austria says "stop" where Austria must submit its veto against such implementing provisions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, three questions that I believe will be crucial in the future: Does this Minister of the Interior get hold of his apparatus? Can these close bodies that exist be closed so that there will be an efficient work in the future in this device? Is it possible to implement reforms without the failure of these reforms on the coalition band? Now, more than a year after taking office, can the Minister of the Interior finally implement what he has announced, namely the overall reform of the executive, the overall reform of the state police – or will he or will he remain a "minister of announcement"?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5994	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. – Deputies! I would draw your attention to the fact that you can only correct a claim whose content you consider incorrect. Please do not make any valid comments. - You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6018	Mr President. My previous speaker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has said here that no speakers in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have taken part in today's debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'm correcting this claim. Mr Anschober should only have looked at the list of speakers, then he would have noticed that three members of the Committee on the Interior of the Freedoms, namely Partik-Pablé, Hofmann, Laiber and Scheibner, of course, are on the list of speakers. Nor had Mrs Partik-Pablé, due to "Parteipolemik", been reported as first speaker today, but because she is in special treatment with her disabled daughter. So you might need to find out before you make such accusations here!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6054	The Minister of State, Dr. Eins, has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6075	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the presentation of the 1994 security report is an opportunity for me to thank the many thousand police officers, gendarmen, criminal officers and the many members of the security administration. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Plaster.]] Your performance must be recognized, and I tell you: They've done what's possible again. It is therefore not a coincidence – and this has already been noted – that the population also recognises this achievement. A study carried out this year by the Social Science Study Society shows that the confidence of the population in the executive has not only remained high – last year the executive, the police have already been in the first place in this respect – but also increased further: from 68 to 73 percent. I think that is a remarkable value, and this has been earned by the executive through their work as well. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: To the same extent, trust in the Minister has fallen!]] The fact that your trust in me has fallen still further surprises me; I do not think it has ever been very high. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Let me comment a little on the priorities of my section. The best experience in the executive's work – both in the preventive work and in the investigation of criminal offences – can be achieved if the cooperation between the citizens on the one hand and the staff of the police, the gendarmerie and the criminal officials on the other hand is to be ensured and enhanced. Trust is the necessary basis here. It is therefore important to strengthen this confidence. On the comments made by Mr Anschober in connection with allegations, which are of course occasionally raised against officials of the executive, it should be noted that: We are first of all trying to implement a project in a Federal Police Directorate, but then across the board, in order to ensure that, where citizens are burdened by the intervention of the executive and are rightly or unjustly opposed to complaints, the unworthy process of bureaucratic handling of such accusations will no longer take place, which does not bring any benefit to the police officers concerned or to the citizens concerned, but requires a relatively large effort. In the future, it will be a matter of inviting officials and the citizens concerned, of holding a joint discussion, and of clarifying what accusations exist and what is justified or unwarranted. The aim we have to pursue is first of all the peace-making process between those involved and second, the strengthening of trust, the basis of trust between citizens and executives. And I believe that we are on the right track with this project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen – ladies and gentlemen of your group have not yet spoken about this – you should decide what you want. You will be completely free to attack me personally, and you will probably do so in the future. However, the fact that it always delivers some dirt sprayers for the executive has not deserved them. You know exactly who is conducting the investigations in the executive. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You must not determine!]] If you don't know, I'd like to tell you: It is generally not the respective Minister of the Interior, they are officials of the executive, gentlemen of the liberals. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You can only determine right!]] I have to provide conditions under which successful work can be carried out, and the data available today also show that effective work is actually being done. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You want to protect your friends!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to thank Mr Schweitzer – who is not present now. I could hardly have demonstrated more clearly how I was right. Mr Schweitzer has shown this very clearly: with all the things he has said here. Vienna to the centre of international crime in order to derive a corresponding attack from it, I think that there is not a particularly strong argument. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: press reports! It's in the standard!]] Mr Schweitzer has also said that only the success of education is a means of mutilating critics. Lords of the liberals! I have the impression that you have nothing to do with being stupid, but I am not at all concerned with making you stupid, either. It would be good for me if we could discuss matters in a serious way and the concerns we are concerned with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, the executive does not need to generate for the success of the information it has achieved. As for the rumours that you have boiled up for the time being – just to be bitten – today, no one – for which you have asked me – needs to be rebutted. But, Mr President, one thing has to be said clearly: Such accusations should, before they are raised, be able to be proved in some way through other documents than those produced or produced by the spreading of rumors. Finally, Mr Schweitzer's comments – I hope you are so kind to extend them – are: [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He's listening!]] He criticised the attempt to build a multicultural police in Vienna, according to the instructions of this unheard-of Minister of the Interior. – Please note, Mr Schweitzer: It's about something else. It is about the fact that the members of the executives can achieve much better success in their work, both in the case of information and in the case of prevention, when they understand and speak the languages of the greatest minorities in this population. How, then, can they get into the conversation and do some educational work? – Make Perhaps you should make a reasonable proposal to this end. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like at least to point out some data on crime development and the investigation work by the executive. I think that we really do not need to be ashamed of data. First of all to remember, even for you from the liberal side – listen, then you know it afterwards –: The total amount of criminal proceedings fell by 3.6 percent from 1993 to 1995. Of course, the number of criminal acts is still too high, but the fact is that it has fallen. The same applies to the field of information quotas. The overall education rate of all crime has risen consistently from 1993 to 1995 - annually - and the executive does not need to generate it either. To mention a third and last example, because you also mentioned: The percentage of foreign suspects in all suspects of crime has fallen from 1993 to 1994, it has fallen from 1994 to 1995, and not only the following: It has also fallen from 1993 to 1995. – So when it comes to making moods, you should operate with numbers that are real, and not with those that serve exclusively to make moods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been rightly mentioned – and I am happy to comment on this too – that it is necessary to work closely with neighbouring police administrations and, as a whole, internationally to combat partially cross-border crime, both in the field of practice and in the field of training. It should be noted that Austria, together with Hungary, established the Austrian-Hungarian Police Academy in 1992, five years ago, which was expanded in 1993 by the accession of other neighbouring countries to the Central European Police Academy. Today, this Central European Police Academy belongs to the eastern neighbours of Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland, from the western countries Germany, Switzerland and Austria. The purpose of this joint venture is to ensure sound training for managers of the police administrations concerned and to provide the basis for intensive and informal cooperation between officials in this area. This is the most promising basis for successful work on cross-border crime. Because this is the case, an invitation from the UN to Austria has been made, with the help of the Central European Police Academy, to carry out and prepare for the Bosnian police with the help of re-training and re-training for Bosnian police. I am proud to be able to say that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Vienna we will have concrete final talks with the UN representatives for the ex-Yugoslav area in Vienna and that we are expected to start this post-training of the Bosnian police in Austria with July 1996. It serves both to ensure lasting civil and peaceful conditions in Bosnia and security in Austria, because the cooperation of neighbouring police administrations is the basis for success. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me also say a word on a question that has not been raised so much today. Last year we started to establish a border service in the framework of the Federal Army. We have clear signs that this structure of border services shows clear and clear successes in the framework of the Federal Army. It is a question of not replacing the lost iron curtain with a wall, not building a "Fortification Europe", but of gaining and ensuring proper control of traffic across the border. The result of this work is, among other things, that we have found it empirically in a district, that crime has fallen by more than 30 per cent in this district, for several reasons: firstly, because there is a preventive effect from the increasingly occurring gendarmes, and secondly, because, of course, the new and more efficient border control also leads to the fact that no illegality can come in or any form of cross-border crime is possible. [[Abg. Scheibner: But we can thank the Federal Army!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you should also mention the German army, Minister!]] The colleagues from Bavaria, who have repeatedly criticized us over the past year – occasionally more haemic, sometimes more collegial – for the fact that some 30 000 illegals were attacked in Bavaria, which apparently had been passed through Austria before, now note that the number of attacks has more than halved – the only consequence of the beginning of the border service in the framework of the federal army. It is therefore true that very important and very effective measures have been taken to increase security in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: The subject of "security academy" has been addressed and it has been pointed out that there have already been groundbreaking but there are no houses yet. That's right! We have, as you know – I have repeatedly reported here in the House – decided not to build houses, but to start training first. I can tell you today – and again in the sense of a concrete announcement: We will start with managerial training after the new system already in autumn. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Where?]] Mr Anschober. On the subject of State Police: It is not true that the state police must be called "Emmentaler". I take note of the fact that you like to call them that. However, this does not really have to do with the problems of practice. I note that there are areas that are the preferred targets of the liberties in the house, and that there are other areas that are the preferred targets of the Greens. Only: This does not change the fact that, over the last year, a number of very comprehensive reforms have taken place in the field of state police, all of which have their positive consequences, and that, moreover, ongoing reforms will always be carried out whenever the matter requires. However, the following must be established with all clarity – I already know that for very conscious reasons you always claim it, but it is therefore also wrong –: It is not the intention of the Minister of the Interior, nor is it the intention of the Director-General for Public Security, the "noise attack", should he be decided in this House to give control to the State Police, but it is an instrument of which we have said quite clearly and at any time that it serves to combat organized crime. And you know: There is a special unit in the Ministry of the Interior to combat this organised crime. This will have to apply this means because it cannot be a means of political adversarial, but rather because it is an instrument that serves to clarify a particular form of serious international crime – and only this! Finally, I present the 1994 security report with satisfaction and also with pride. Thank you for the successes achieved during this period, besides the officials mentioned here, including my predecessor Franz Lösnak, who is the last report of his term of office as Minister of the Interior. I would therefore like to thank him for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of the Interior and the local authorities is working with commitment, with expertise and with success for greater security and security of the people living in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6298	Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. From now on, the speaking time of each speaker is ten minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6319	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If, first of all, I am now also aware of the opportunity to say a few words to the security report, which, of course, can only be limited if one has only ten minutes to do so, then allow me to advance the thought that, in the context of internal security, security executives and justice, as one can imagine, the two departments responsible for these areas, are acting like communicating vessels. If, in good old tradition, this safety report is presented not only by the Minister of the Interior, but also together with the Minister of Justice and therefore also by the representatives of the High House of Justice, I would like to ask the question from my point of view: How does the judicial system implement the work of the security executive, how does the justice work on what was done by the security executive in the interests of the security of the population? Does this interplay work? Does the protection of people work? And will this effect of special and general prevention be achieved at the courts in further succession? I would like to give the answer to the fact that, on the whole, this is a good thing and can also be read from the statistics: Some of the trends that can be read in the first two-thirds of this report, namely the internal sector, are essentially reflected in the figures and trends relating to the area of justice. However, I believe that such a debate can also give rise to the fact that, as a member of the legislation, it is possible to look at and reflect on whether the report can also show indications or evidence of how, on the part of the courts, the intentions of the legislator are implemented by the courts, whether and if so, how. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There, too, I think, you can say: Yes, it is true, if one does not ignore, that in all areas this cannot be underlined so 100 percent. Allow me to give you a few examples: We have introduced into our criminal code a provision according to which as a result of "lack of criminality of the act", as stated in the language of the law, namely in § 42 of the Criminal Code, the ad can be returned and acquitted, where the consequences must not then arise which otherwise occur in a proven offence. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be noted that, due to a very rigid and restrictive judicial system of the Supreme Court, the legislator's intention is not to be implemented in such a way that the people do not always want to be punished for such small things, for Peanuts, and to the extent that we have imagined it. We should therefore consider, on this occasion, that, in the context of, for example, the criminal law amendment law, we should also discuss this again and consider how we could reasonably improve it – especially, ladies and gentlemen of the House, if we consider that there is a regional scatter to that, that there is an East-West gap in the area of jurisdiction – which I would like to deal with later on – also in this area. I'll stay right in the east-west gap. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not believe that there is a judicial debate on criminal law, in which not at least one speaker, but most often several, deals with this phenomenon of Austrian legal culture. I have to do this again today, because it is evident from this current security report in 1994 that there is still this East-West incident and that, for example, someone who lives or works in the field of the Upper Regional Court of Vienna has a four times higher chance - in a negative sense - of being arrested as someone who lives in the area of the Oberlandesgericht Innsbruck. – Mr Krüger smiles casually here. You're right. I just have to say one thing: We in the area of the Upper Regional Court of Vienna are the worst, and you are the second worst in the area of the Upper Land Court of Linz. So: Vienna and Linz are much worse off in this respect. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't forget Graz!]] Graz is a special problem. Mr Ofner is right, but unfortunately this is not a place to stay in these ten minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: There is no conditional dismissal in Graz!]] This is the next thing I want to deal with, so please be so kind and don't distract me, otherwise my ten minutes speaking time will be over, and I haven't accommodated what I wanted to accommodate. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: So no more calls!]] No, no, no, Interlocutory calls are dialogues in the sense of a contentious debate on this matter; that does not matter. The fact is that, due to the legal and existing organisational circumstances, we have not managed to achieve a uniform - I call it - legal status in the whole of Austria. We are called upon to work together with those responsible for the department, with those responsible at the courts, so that these differences can be resolved, so to speak. A short trip, because I am in charge of detention, imprisonment and cetera, perhaps also a bit in a certain direction – it has so far spoken of the FPÖ only by the colleague Schweitzer –: I have noticed in the phenomenon that foreigners in Austria, for example, are being arrested much more frequently and because of much smaller offences than Austrians. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Because they have no proper residence!]] It may be, Mr. Cot. – The light is shining. For God's sake, are they really nine minutes away?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6388	The clock is inconceivable, Mr deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6403	The Austrians, what do they do? In the field of detention, being treated better than foreigners, the reversing concludes that the claims of the FPÖ are in the opposite direction that foreigners in Austria would have been so good if they did something – at least from logic – not quite able to vote. I also come to a point that I have to accommodate, because it is a positive thing and I am particularly pleased. – If you look at this safety report, you can see that the frequency of conviction among young people is very low, which can be proved and proved for two reasons: Firstly, because the young people commit fewer crimes, and secondly because the reasonable rules that we have decided for young offenders in this House have obviously taken positive action. I'm just calling the keyword "out of court"! So this is so positive and so good that we are now sending ourselves now to set out the extrajudicial compensation of acts, even for adults, and not to carry out them only in the form of the model tests as they exist. Ladies and gentlemen! That's certainly something positive. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would like us to achieve in the future, with the high number of prisoners in international comparison, that we are no longer in the upper third in the area of the Council of Europe, that Austria does not have 85 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants. In the Netherlands, for example, only 55 come, in Belgium only 65 prisoners come to 100 000 inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I am already at the conclusion, Mr President. All those who are not insiders in judicial matters would surely be able to resolve this question: When asked: Where do more people sit in prison: in Austria or in Turkey? Nine out of ten would say: in Turkey. I tell you – read it in the safety report: In Austria 85, in Turkey 72. That is why we need to work on getting this into a more reasonable relationship. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6455	Mr Dr. Ofner has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6476	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost I'm trying to defend the government and, above all, the judicial community, which is the result of the numbers of prisoners. It is an old theme that drags from decade to decade, but one must not compare inequalities as it happens very often. Willi Fuhrmann knows anyway what I'd talk about if I had more time. But I am still with my predecessors Elmecker and Fuhrmann with my remarks: I am concerned that the role of the foreigners in the criminal justice system in Austria, in the criminal proceedings, in the execution of judgment, in sitting, should be further developed. To this end, the safety report with its tables is not sufficient. It is necessary to look at other statistical documents. Above all, it is the inmate statistics, which give an interesting insight and also shows where there are important reasons for the fact that justice is overburdened and that justice does not have the money it needs for real renewal projects, but also for the corresponding support of prisoners who want to be prevented from retreating. Inmate statistics – new – 1. February 1996: 6 665 prisoners, 25.9 percent of them on average, almost 26 percent of foreigners! – You have to break that on your tongue! In total, there are 10 or 12 percent foreigners in Austria, depending on the reading. But among the prisoners more than twice as many. Almost 26 percent! This quota is even more blatant when it comes to the arresters. Willi Fuhrmann! Detainees, foreigners in Austria: 38 percent! In other words, 38 percent of the population of the surveyed prisoners averaged 10, 12 or 13 percent of the population. [[Abg. May. Posch: What do you conclude?]] That they are more often punishable, Mr President. [[Abg. May. Posch: Why do you say that?]] Because I know this business. But I would like to explain it to you outside of my speaking time, so that a teacher can learn something from these things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is more, the 26 per cent quota, which includes not only the U-hooks, but also the law enforcement officers and which at least shows that there are twice as many out of this area as Austrians. Now there's something else to add: These foreign residents come in Austrian institutions... [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Let me remind you of Nietzsche, Mr. Cot, who said: "The Social Democratic always believes that behind every bush a good person comes forth!" - That's not how it is. Mr Posch! Nietzsche has already realized that this is not right. Not behind every bush is a good person! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this large number of foreign prisoners in Austrian institutions is composed of members of no less than 69 nations. I would like to stress once again: It's not about people who don't speak German. It's not about people of non-German mother tongue. All of this is not taken into account. It is only about citizenship, about foreigners: 38 percent of the U-haftlings, almost 26 percent of all prisoners counted from 69 nations. And 40 percent of these prisoners can hardly find a word German again. This shows two ways: First of all, if one considers it to be an effect, this is a clear parameter in the extent to which the foreigners in Austria become penalised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] That can be desired now, Mr Posch, or not, you can push it or not. But it's a fact! You can talk about how you want, it's a fact! It's numbers, you can read them, you can finally say that I don't think so! The ministry is lying, you can say! [[Abg. May. Posch: I'm just asking for your conclusion!]] You can also say that the Minister of Justice is lying! But no one will take that from you! It's a fact! - What does that lead to? – This leads to a very high level of security in this area of justice. Because if the judicial guard does not understand what people are talking to each other, this is a very worrying development. Today it is also experienced as a lawyer, as a defender who has to do with his clients and with others in prison, in the half-block, that they can talk to each other relatively unhappiness, for no one understands what they have to say or say to dangerous or less dangerous. It's gonna be expensive, too. For all the reasons – different nations, different religions in prison – there are eight different forms of food, for one may only eat vegetarian, the other no meat, and the third of those and this not. There are eight different types of food in prison! But the prisoner, especially when he's sitting longer, can not just look in the air; that's harmful. It's called "Hirntchechern" in the jargon. He's not just allowed to "chicken" and think about what he'll do when he comes out. He must also have other jobs. This includes reading. Meanwhile, the so far monolingual libraries in the judicial institutions in Austria are being increased from federal funds, multiplied into the languages of all the countries! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to say that's not how it should be. I would just like to highlight the number of foreign prisoners in the Austrian judicial institutions and what it costs the Republic. A quarter of the people sitting inside are foreigners. You need eight different diets. You need libraries in the languages of all the countries. They represent a safety risk. But before you get to jail, Mr Posch, you must have all the appropriate procedures. [[Abg. May. Posch: Maybe you should buy the Bible!]] The Bible will not be the first to talk about a social democracy, nor will it think of it, except he has to do with a liberal. Otherwise, the Bible will not appeal to them. Maybe "The Capital" of Karl Marx. But this too may soon be inside in numerous expenditures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Please, Mr. Ofner! We can also quote the Bible! – You don’t have a monopoly on the Bible!]] Willi! You didn't have time, I didn't have one. But you don't have a monopoly on the Bible either, I must say. But anyone who is in prison who is in detention also has a trial running, or he has it behind him. And in this process, sometimes the majority of those present are the interpreters. Not the judge with his writer, not the meeting representative of the prosecutor's office, not the defender, but one experiences negotiations with five, six and more accused, with five, six and more interpreters in all languages that are in the corresponding subculture and exist. I would be interested in these interpreter costs, which are certainly a three-digit million-height sum in Austria a year. They have not yet appeared anywhere in the statistics, and I may ask the Minister of State to carry out such surveys in his place of business. We want to know what it costs. I want to know when a group of accused people sit there in a property procedure and then I need a Turkish, a Serbian, a Romanian, a Russian and a similar interpreter, who, as they are entitled to, require and receive their amounts – but not from those who are condemned, of which there is usually nothing to get out, but from the State Sack. It costs a lot of money! Foreigners are becoming highly penalized, much more than Austrians. That is not what we read from the security report, which is what we read from it, and that is why justice is overburdened, among other things, and that is why it costs us so much money, and the justice says that we have none for the real reforms. [[The speaker shows a statistics]] – You just have to show this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, apart from the problems of foreigners in the judiciary, I repeat here and on this occasion that, in my view, the wrong people are in part initiated and discharged criminal proceedings and that the wrong people are also sitting. For, historically conditional on Austria, it is still far too rigid to initiate criminal proceedings and, above all, to impose prison sentences. A judicial procedure that can result in a prison sentence and in its execution can, in my view, be considered – and I am not alone in the world with this view, which is now speaking everywhere, especially abroad – only with someone dangerous, one who works professionally in the criminal field, and with someone who has to be imprisoned for this reason, because the social peace demands it, for example, because it does not stand as a heavy stealth or a serious abuser, that the person concerned, when he has indicated it, remains on his feet. However, all those who have suffered, for example, economic shipwreck, who have committed negligence, or more, belong either to the civil sector, they belong in the administrative or administrative criminal proceedings, and if before the criminal court, then the fine and the fine alone must be given the appropriate space! We do not want to arrest the people at our expense, where no one has anything of it, because they are not dangerous, because they are not true criminals who, when they get out, do something right away, and because the offences are not so difficult that they do not stand out when they stay on their feet. So we only want those in prison who really belong there! At the same time, however, we want the true criminals to be punished with all the strictness and hardness of the law and not to show shyness, misunderstandedness!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6613	Mr Platter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6634	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we're today, 22nd. On the subject of the security report for 1994, one can in principle see satisfaction when assessing the safety report at first glance. Ladies and gentlemen! The education rate is particularly encouraging. It should be noted that, compared to the previous year, we have a higher education rate of 3 per cent. If it was 46.8 percent in 1993, it was 49.6 percent in 1994. And this is undoubtedly a particularly encouraging development. It was very well worked here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I should therefore like to thank all the executive officials on behalf of the Austrian People's Party for this excellent crime fight. The executive organs are mostly idealists who are committed to their service. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At first I said that the 1994 Security Report was satisfactory at first glance, but it must not be overlooked that there has been a tremendous increase over the last 20 years as a result of overall crime. In these 20 years, there has been an increase of 73 percent in the area of total crime. If one compares 1994 with 1993, it is true that it is true that, of course, there have been reductions in various criminal acts, but there are also corresponding increases. In the criminal act of fraud, an increase of 43.4 percent was recorded, an increase of 21 percent in the area of serious property damage. So it is noticed that there is increased radicality. There was an increase of almost 30 percent in drug abuse. A dramatic increase – already mentioned today – can be seen in the area of trafficking in human beings, an increase of 259 percent. I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to be careful. Security must continue to be the highest priority in our country! We must not stand by the fight against organised crime, terrorism, and we must not pursue a liberal security policy in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, security policy must take a stand on the change of time. Education and training must be forced, of course, within the framework of the desired security academy. An adjustment in the area of equipment is required. And, ladies and gentlemen, I say it very consciously: There must be close equal opportunities between executive officers and criminal gangs of terrorism and organised crime, through modern methods of investigation. I am glad that I heard from the Minister that he is also representing this line. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Which Minister?]] The minister from the left here in this house. With the executive, total annoyance can be seen when some politicians keep making the statement, in the field of security there are no savings. – I think that this statement should be spared if there are overtime savings on the one hand, and on the other hand there is a staff stop and executive officials are partially downgraded to the cleaning woman, because there is no cleaner available as a result of the recording stop. When one is terminated, no one will be recorded. – Good: [[Call for the call.]] Putting men. These are, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps small issues, but very sensitive in the field of executives. Minister! We should try to improve this, at least in those services where these problems exist. Officials all over the country complain about the current situation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But these are Machos!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly on addiction crime. There has so far been no debate on the issue of drug control. There has been a massive increase in drug crime in recent years, and it has been alarming that there were 250 drug deaths in Austria in 1994. I am very concerned about this: on the one hand, because of the increase in the number of drug deaths and on the other hand – that is very interesting – because in the case of Heroin security and seizure there was a decrease of 23.4 percent, and in the case of cocaine it was the same. There's something wrong with that! On the one hand, there is an increase, and on the other hand, there is a decline. I am convinced that there is not enough qualified staff in the area of addiction control and organised crime. If one sees these tendencies in relation to addiction crime, one must say that we need more information from parents and students. I'll give you an example. My son is 14 years old, and he has not yet received any information on addiction in any school. We really have to do this offensively! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Do not liberalize!]] In addition, there is a need for additional measures to enable the drug diseases to be treated and in this way to try to reintegrate them into society, and I must say that this is, of course, extremely difficult. And the percentage where this has been achieved is currently very low. In particular, it is necessary to strengthen European cooperation within the framework of EUROPOL. But what we do not need, ladies and gentlemen, would be a liberalisation of the addiction law. And I hope, Minister, that we will all be sitting in the same boat in this respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6740	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6761	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter said that he was hoping to be in a boat with the Ministers for Drug Policy and Drug Control. – This is what you are doing, but you simply overlook the fact that the water is already up to your neck, because you have continued to operate drug policy with exactly those methods that have been established so far, Mr Platter, and because you are not going on with exactly those instruments in this area. They also meant that the requirements were changing. – Yes, you are right, but then you have to respond to it with the appropriate means, and we finally have to confess that drug control must primarily take people away from the drug. They will not achieve this by locking up, but in this context also need therapy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But liberalizing is not the right thing either!]] - Wait! Mr Platter said we need more information. He's right: We need more information in this context. We Liberals say we do something to get people out of this environment or not to let them slip into that environment at all – and that is exactly the way. Faith You do not ask that students at certain schools, just because you do not know anything about it, have not been confronted with drugs so far, Mr Deputies. That goes beyond reality! By the way, as with many other things, wherever you pass by reality. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He spoke of the Enlightenment!]] Yeah, why don't you do it? You are from a government group, Mrs Deputies. You could do that! You are talking about the fact that you do not want to take note of when certain developments begin! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's why Mr Platter has suggested it!]] You do not see, for example, that 14 years old have long been in an area – in order to speak only to §§ 209, 220 and 221 StGB – which may not be yours. But that's your problem, that's not the problem of young people. Only: You're making this a problem with the politics you're running here. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What about soft drugs?]] Now I would like to refer to Mr Schweitzer's comments, who, as the first speaker of the Liberal Group, spoke on this issue – and this, Mr Scheibner, has clearly brought this to our attention, although he is not a member of this committee. Mr Schweitzer has already noted the comments made by Mr Schweitzer: Although he was not familiar with matter, he was loud for it. And that, despite the fact that you were in committee, you were not allowed to speak objectively about this matter as the first speaker of the liberals, but that this was left to Mr Schweitzer, Mr Schweitzer, speaks volumes. [[in the direction of the Abg. Disc]] You know that! I'm just taking an example from the Schweitzer speech. He said: False money. He got mad and said: As false money in Austria is increasing now, this is a scandal, but nothing is done about it! Mr Schweitzer did not seem to have read this exactly. You, Mr Scheibner, could certainly have helped him because you were in the committee, but he was not. The false money crime that has increased with us in the years until 1993 was not due to the fact that all people have suddenly become poorer or worse than before, perhaps a very bad loss of values has occurred, but the reason for this was that there was simply a new technology on the market, namely laser color copies, and thus it has been easier to become criminal in these areas. And then, of course, that's what some have done. In 1993, the Federal Minister for the Interior recognized this, and measures were taken. And here, in 1994 – I am taking this away from the security report – there was a very strong decline to less than half. But this is not, ladies and gentlemen, by means of grid arrest and noise attack, but simply by means of information, better information for the population and better training of the police. You do not need to intervene in fundamental rights, because you do not need to believe that the whole world is crashing, but it seems that this is connected with the fact that criminals also use those methods and measures that are available in technological areas. If that is the case, then you have to react to it. As you can see, you can react with very simple, very cost-effective means. This has, however, been referred to only to half the truth by Mr Schweitzer, for example, false money crime. That is why I am saying this now because, rightly speaking, Mr Bundesminister asked one to discuss this subject in a serious way. The Liberals like to do that. However, ladies and gentlemen: You can only discuss serially if you know the facts. And since there were so many speakers here at the Pult talking about the fact that organized crime had reached an extent that endangered Austria in an intensity that was unbearable, I wonder why in police crime statistics the expression "organized crime" does not even occur. There is nothing in this report about organized crime at all, ladies and gentlemen, because perhaps it is only according to the paragraphs of the Criminal Code, according to which paragraphs there have been which convictions, but it is in the introduction that: "Political crime statistics contain, in addition to the breakdown of criminal acts according to criminal law, also a according to particular manifestations of crime – taking into account criminal and criminalistic aspects." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! If a serious debate on organised crime is to be held in Austria, why is there not a single statistical value on this in criminal police statistics? Now you can say: Okay, that's hard to grasp, and there are special difficulties. Let us take the security report back; it is much thicker than police crime statistics. If you look at organised crime under the keyword, you can read: "Organized crime has become reality. The organized offenders try to change... into a blatantity." For example, when it comes to money laundering, there should be a question of the importance of anonymity in this context. In any case: How was the Federal Ministry's response? – It has been used by its own group to fight money laundering. The breakdown of organised crime in Austria by individual crimes, such as property crime, can be read: "The analysis of police investigations in the area of organised property crime in 1994 shows the efficiency of the actions of organised crime groups." But you don't have to believe that there's a number somewhere there, how many property crimes can be attributed to organized crime. Ladies and gentlemen! Not a single statistical number! All of you are going down here – I am referring specifically to you from the EIA and you from the "F" and say so in relation to the S & D Group – and call for far too easily measures that are deeply invading the fundamental rights of Austrian citizens. And you are talking about a problem that you are not even able to capture in numbers! But otherwise they are very well able to capture everything in numbers. And we also need these figures to conduct a serious debate which Mr Bundesminister rightly called for. But you cannot present such figures on organised crime, which is supposed to have reached such a great extent: neither in the field of property crimes nor in the field of crime in connection with the red light scene or with violent crime, in the field of protection. You can't mention a single number about all of this. Economic crime: In the whole of the security report, there is no number on economic crime and what it really looks like. – But everyone speaks of it, and everyone demands deep intervention, even in fundamental and freedom rights. Everyone demands – and this in the case of a savings package – measures for the police, measures that are much more cost-intensive than what has been done so far. Although, for example, Mr Schweitzer, who has been attracted to false money crime, see that simple information makes it possible to achieve much more with simple, better training than with such new instruments. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also miss the fact that this will be taken into account to the extent that we are talking about organised crime and these deep interventions in fundamental and freedom rights. The security report states that the EDOK is a very good establishment and that the fight against organised crime can only take place across the state. – This should be considered by all those who are so opposed to the European Union that they cannot strengthen a nation-state association and act better against organised crime than a single state. Ladies and gentlemen! The Security Report also calls for closer cooperation with the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs in the fight against economic crime. A better witness protection is required. And only under "remote running" will better technical tools be mentioned in the safety report. High house! I mean, with these examples, that what is required in the field of grid detection and noise attack can in fact not be supported by a single number, although this problem is a constantly increasing one. But I also want to add: We do not dispute that there is organized crime, but the question is: To what extent does it really exist? There are no such figures! Therefore, it is not justified to intervene so deeply in the fundamental and freedom rights of citizens, if you can, so to speak, only put this into a mist and not even have concrete figures for it! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberals will continue to oppose such measures as grid arrest and noise attack in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6859	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6880	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, we have seen a continuing decline in crime in Austria, which is confirmed by the 1994 Security Report. Although there are still no evaluated data for 1995, there is also a further marked decline in the crime rate. The development in the first months of 1996 also goes very clearly in this direction. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen: Our executive has done excellent work. She did what the world is envying us today: We have come to grips with the problem of crime development – which can be determined objectively on the basis of these facts, based on these figures. That the Austrians also see this, ladies and gentlemen, proves the current study of the social science study society by Mr. Federal Minister. It has examined confidence in institutions, with the very remarkable result that the police were second in this rating and could even improve by 5 percentage points compared to the previous year. Once again – even if some do not want to see it true –: While in Germany, for example, the crime rate has increased significantly – by 8 percent in 1994 – Austria can show the lowest figures in almost all types of crime. Austria is really a safe country! And the measures taken here in recent years, namely from 1994 to 1996, have taken place. Let me give you a few examples: Organised crime, for example: Austria is acting offensively against the organized crime. Evidence is the creation of the EDOK, i.e. the intervention group to combat organised crime, because the fight against organised crime can only be carried out centrally within the framework of international cooperation between countries threatened with cross-border organised crime. And EDOK keeps in constant contact with international services responsible for combating organised crime abroad. Many joint successes have already been achieved. I am thinking, for example, of the destruction of a group of perpetrators working across Europe in the field of money and securities fraud. It was set up within the EDOK Economic Groups that effectively combat international and national economic crime. As far as economic crime is concerned, a few hundred million schillings have already been frozen in 1994. One is to set up OK-references at the criminal departments in the state army commanders and to install officers in the competence of the Federal Police Directorates. – I could continue to list these measures for any time. You can see these few examples: Much is done to maintain public peace, order and security. As a Member of Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, I would strongly oppose Mr Schweitzer if he is here a security situation of the Federal Capital, which simply does not exist. As in many other areas, he remained true to his old motto: to claim and claim something again and again, but without providing evidence for it. The security development in Vienna is a very encouraging one. Vienna is one of the safest millions of cities in the world. We are the world's model of security: fewer crimes, but a higher level of information. There is no city that has a similar balance as we have in Vienna. These statistics also disprove the cliché of increasing foreign crime, which the representatives of the Freemans have repeatedly resisted. There is also a fall of some percentage points in this respect. The reasons for this balance sheet, ladies and gentlemen – police experts, social workers, psychologists confirm this – are that the high level of social balance and economic security for the successful work of executives and their good relationship with the population are important foundations. Very pleased for Vienna – but this also applies to the whole federal territory – is the very good cooperation of executive and population. I am thinking, in this context, of youth contact officials, of youth welfare and youth jurisdiction. – The result is also a very positive development in relation to youth crime. Statistics show a sharp drop in the number of young offenders in terms of convictions: at least 10.4 percent. The cooperation between the population and the executive is excellent, and therefore we are also trying to improve working conditions wherever possible, and therefore the city of Vienna also provides support wherever it goes. At the initiative of the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, 10 million Schilling were provided last year to improve equipment for security guard and criminal service. In addition, the city of Vienna will provide 500 apartments for graduates of the police school over the next three years. The old and small watchrooms are replaced by new, modern ones. We also rely on quality. The result, as has been said: fewer crimes and a higher level of information. Ladies and gentlemen! The security situation is excellent for us – objectively and internationally. But of course we also take care that citizens feel safe, subjectively, because quality of life and safety are not to be separated. We have therefore made great efforts to ensure that there is no reduction in the number of posts in the external service of the executive. These freer planning sites will always be re-occupied, and there will be no deterioration in the future. On the contrary: At the present stage, the free-standing planning posts will be systemised and the presence of the foreign service will be strengthened. The actual staffing in Vienna will increase in the last few months of 1996, because 318 security guards will only be assigned to the security guards in the districts during the 1996 evaluators, thus greatly increasing the staffing status. - That's the one side. But because social democrats, ladies and gentlemen, are a crime of a too much kind to us, we have put in a far-reaching security package with very concrete approaches: To further increase safety, we want to show the inhabitants of Vienna – and especially the women who feel insecure at night in unlit parking garages and lifts – that we take their fears seriously by working together with them on a safety catalogue for urban projects. There have already been very concrete measures in this regard. For us, comprehensive security means not only fighting crime, but also increasing road safety, household accident prevention, protection against disasters, civil protection, safe jobs, and secure pensions. The comprehensive safety concept that we repeatedly address is as follows: We want to fight not only the symptoms of criminal acts, but also the causes. High crime always has social causes, and because we know that, our solutions also set up a level earlier. – This does not sound spectacular, but is the secret of this successful Austrian path, a path that has made Austria a security model country, a path that has led Austria to the top of the industrialized countries. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to continue this path and invite you to join us in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6984	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7005	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister of State Dr. Michalek! Minister of State Dr. Einm! The greatest danger for Austrians is still road traffic. Although this is not directly reflected in the safety report, it is no doubt from the very useful statistics. In 1994, 1,338 people died in road transport in Austria; this is a significant increase of 4.3 percent. This is why I put it at the beginning of my remarks, because Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, also some from the circle of the liberals and perhaps some secret from the circle of the SPÖ still oppose the reduction of the promille limit from 0.8 to 0.5. Therefore, I would like to write it into the main book, so to speak, when it comes to security in Austria: The biggest uncertainty factor is the "weapon" car, ladies and gentlemen, whereby it is not the car, but the man who controls it, and the man who abuses it, and the man who primarily controls it alcoholically. [[Abg. Grandruck: Jaguar!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, The 0.5-promille limit is long due! [[Abg. Zweytick: No, no!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, now the actual safety report. I have already liked it when Mr. Ofner – not only as a Member of Parliament, but above all as one who should really know what he is talking about for decades as a lawyer – did not regret it, but strongly pointed out that the proportion of foreigners in the U prisoners in Austria is 38 percent, a total of 26 percent. Especially Dr. Ofner, as a lawyer in a legal profession, must know exactly why this is so: Because, of course, there are also grounds for arrest and because, in the case of a foreigner, the judges, but especially now in advance, of course, the police are at hand very quickly when it comes to constructing the ground for escape to put someone in U-Haft. But this has nothing to do with the reasons so implicitly stated by Dr. Ofner in his remarks: After the foreigners, they are generally more criminal, and therefore they are more in U-port as a whole because they are just worse people, otherwise they would no longer be in U-port and in prison. – This has to do with the fact that they are not Austrian but foreigners! So stupid, as Mr. Dr. Ofner speaks against better knowledge! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] He represents exactly such people in his civil profession! I can only explain to him that he is talking about such a talk here that he has a duty here to fulfil as a Member of the "F"! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But that's the theory! We're talking about practice!]] I can tell him on his quote that not behind every bush a good person listens only to the following: Not behind every bush is a bad person! That is what the FPÖ is constantly preaching to us. And these bad people are, of course, in the logic of the liberal foreigners, because foreign good people cannot, according to this hetze, according to this racist het, of course. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow up on the comments made by Mr Dr. One of the following: I have heard from some personal meetings and from reports by friends and also from journalists from Austrian police officers who have made themselves especially worthy outside of Austria, where it is not about the security of the Austrian population, which is mainly our heart today, of those Austrian security officers who work in Mostar within the framework of the EU Police. I must say that everything I have heard about what these people are doing there brings great praise to our country, and I believe that these people who serve in Mostar within the framework of the EU Police should also be thanked once from the National Council because they really do their job there. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaál has said a lot of right here before me when he spoke about how safe Austria is, how safe our hometown of Vienna is – I do not want to repeat that I too am more than happy that I can live in one of the safest or perhaps even in the most secure city in the world – when he said that we are all responsible for ensuring that this remains the same. But this has essentially to do with the responsibility we bear for the social climate in this country. Mr Gaál is perfectly right when he emphasises that this sense of security is not something exclusively objective, but rather involves a lot of subjective factors. We know – as can be seen from the reports of the Ministry of the Interior and from numerous studies – that the discrepancy between the actual number of offences committed and the fact that someone feels safe or insecure can already be shown by the example of our safe and beloved hometown of Vienna. We know from investigations that in the inner districts of Vienna, especially in those districts that are located within the belt, but especially in the first district, Viennans have much less fear of crime than people who live in the outer districts, although much more criminal action is displayed in the inner districts of Vienna. The reality and the subjective feeling do not agree. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am not only referring to crime, but also to the scientists, to the conclusion that all statistics can also be found, that crime has something to do with poverty – not only in the sense of criminal acts, but also in the sense of the fear of crime – and that, according to the statistics – and this also shows in the 1994 security report – the proportion of those convicted in the lower social strata is at least disproportionately higher. That is why these objective and subjective factors are so essential. I have already said, I believe, in every security debate – and I say it again because it is true – that absolute satisfaction of the security need is not possible, but that we should try to do so – I am in spirit entirely with Toni Gaál – to fight fears where they are really real, namely, where the people are unsure by the savings package I, the savings package II, by hotze of the F, partly also by other parties who sit on this cart. It is these fears that lie primarily at our heart and which are to be fought. That must be done! I am also convinced by my subjective feeling that the presence of uniforms on the streets is something important and necessary, but it is all the more important that people know that they have a job, that people know that their pensions are assured that there are social shelters, because the lack of these factors only raises the feeling of uncertainty, which then causes an irregular, but subjective, fear of serious concern from us. Only those are the true causes. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I came to something that excited me, two days ago, when I saw the "time in the picture": First of all, I was excited that the ORF was doing something like this, and second, I was excited what I was reading about it in the newspapers: This witness – Mr. Anschober has already mentioned it – in this cocaine scandal in the security office that has appeared, a V-wife...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7074	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7089	This witness was mentioned several times by a well-known lawyer, Dr. Rudolf Mayer, in the ORF – which the ORF has approved – with her full name. I really consider this to be a contradiction to all the principles of Witness protection, one especially...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7114	Please, the final sentence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7129	... any criminal responsibility contrary to the procedure, and I ask the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice to take action so that this woman, who has so boldly pointed out abuses, does not suffer personal harm now. That is – the Minister nodds – now your case, Mr. Federal Minister, to ensure that they are not postponed...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7159	Excuse me, but the sentence is a little long now. I suppose these are all highlights, but maybe you've got the point in your eye now. - Please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7174	... that such damage may occur by security authorities does not occur and that, in particular, the protection of witnesses...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7213	Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that this was a point. Your speaking time is over! - Thank you. [[In the case of the Greens and the SPÖ Members, please welcome the speaker's report. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Have you ever watched a speech from you in a video?]] The Federal Minister for Justice has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7250	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by saying that, from my point of view, we also live as a Minister of Justice in a country where efforts to reduce risk and limit risk in areas relevant to objective security, but also to the subjective sense of security, have not been without success and where a significant quality of life appears to be given and guaranteed in international comparison. As far as internal security is concerned, I would like to stress once again that efforts at risk reduction should not be limited to the work of the security and justice authorities, but must follow an overall strategy, an overall strategy which provides for measures in all social areas, because shortcomings and failure in the Safety-related prevention and precautionary measures can often no longer be compensated for afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen! Definition of statistics: There is no doubt that one of the phenomena that increasingly and seriously affects the legalized society and its sense of security is organized crime – and since, in view of the increased mobility and the intensity of all forms of communication, cross-border international organised crime in particular. It is certainly not easy for the rules of criminal law, which are clearly defined, so to speak, to adapt to this changed situation and to deal with the challenges associated with it. Nevertheless, we can point out that some important steps of the legislator have already been taken along this path, others are in preparation. Since 1993, money laundering and the criminal organisation have been independent criminal offences, and the procedural witness protection program includes the possibility of anonymizing witnesses – and contradictory hearing in a separate area. The main focus of the government's draft law on criminal law is the levying of criminal profits, which is based on serious and organised crime, in order to attack their financial base. Similarly, for advice and legal decision-making, the Government's document on the special investigation measures to combat organised crime. You know that from the very beginning I have drawn attention to the fact that the regulation of new, technical investigation methods, in particular for acoustic and optical monitoring of non-public behaviour by humans, is a gratification of the rule of law. In this fundamental assessment and in the effort to balance the balance between improving the criminal police investigation tool on the one hand and intervening in the privacy of individual and his personality rights on the other, I feel confirmed by the public discussion in recent weeks. In drawing up this draft, the judicial body has also focused on the legal development of the neighbouring countries, particularly the European Union, in the consideration that everything must be done to prevent Austria from becoming a retiring area, a place of planning illegal activities and a financial place of organized crime. At the same time, however, we have also made sure that intervention in fundamental areas is limited to what is absolutely necessary and that the principles of our criminal proceedings are respected. This is important, therefore, because the confidence of citizens in the public institutions is one of the most important foundations of every form of crime control. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, efforts to combat organised crime must not lead us to neglect the instruments for combating everyday crime which, in their immediate impact, affect the individual more often and more concretely. These instruments should therefore be improved and extended in a timely manner. This includes the development of the successful and internationally recognised establishment of the "out-of-court settlement" for the past decade, as well as the re-regulation before completion of a concept of the division, i.e. a simplified and at the same time better tailored to the individual case, of less serious violations of less dangerous offenders. Special attention will be paid to the compensation of damages and the other interests of the victims. In the area of drugs, which has also been referred to several times today, the National Council not only has the relevant UN and Council of Europe conventions to be ratified, but also the government template of a drug law. Although it expands the potential for criminalisation by involving the so-called psychotropic substances and the precursors, it strives to further develop the proven flexible handling of search medium-dependent perpetrators in a moderate and systematic manner. I would really like to appeal that the only sensible and proven response, the model "therapy instead of punishment", should not fail in the issue of financing. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the increasingly cross-border nature of many forms of crime must be confronted with a determined strengthening of international cooperation between judicial and security authorities. That is why we are trying to strengthen international cooperation at all levels, particularly within the framework of the third pillar of the European Union. One more word on the many foreigners today in the field of crime. We are suffering from the fact that the current statistics do not distinguish this concept from those foreigners who stay in Austria for a long time, and those who are only temporarily in Austria, and that is, if you think that Austria is a tourist country with about 200 million border crossings annually and 100 million foreigners overnights, not a few. Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that the proportion of foreigners among the suspects of crime with the proportion of foreigners among the legally convicted and the proportion of foreigners among the prisoners is approximately the same. The fact is that the number of foreign prisoners has fallen sharply over the past few years, but it is also a fact that the proportion of foreigners among the prisoners of investigation is very high, but this is less due to the structure of the criminal cases that have been burdened to them, but precisely to the situation already mentioned, that they are, in the absence of proof of a domestic residence, rather than dangerous. The question of the East-West incident was also addressed. It is a merit of the studies mentioned here that this phenomenon has been clearly worked out, because I believe that precisely the formation of consciousness resulting from the discussion with this phenomenon is necessary in order to bring about a unification. Certainly, the fundamental complaint to the Supreme Court in the field of detention has also brought about a harmonization. The coordination function of the Ministry of Justice vis-à-vis the public prosecutors takes place, even if this is sometimes considered to be the exercise of the right of guidance. Overall, only intensification in the field of education and training can lead to greater problem transparency, awareness-building and practical change. I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that I will once again ensure that justice will contribute to the maintenance of internal security in this country, as in the past, in the future – in the sense of our rule of law and in the protection of the citizens of that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7339	Mr Murauer is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7360	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my opinion, the 1994 Security Report can rightly call itself "Security Report". He may speak of some insecurity that cannot be overlooked and has a number of worrying criminal statistics, but I believe that he is basically not to be referred to as an 'insecurity report', as some opposition speakers have done today, but that we can also talk about a safe country in which people live largely in security, in the light of this safety report. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you think, Mrs Stoisits, that the representatives of the Austrian People's Party are those who talk to the alcoholics among the drivers, that is already a point of order. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your flat-rate accusation to us must not be contradicted that we are the representatives of those who drive in an alcoholic state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They probably did not mention that it is a matter of control that we have to control the 0.8 Promille limit, make the strictest controls, and that the serious accidents which unfortunately occur in God are not caused by drivers who have an alcohol content in the blood of 0.5 Promille or 0.8 Promille, but between 1.5 and 2.5, yes up to 3.2 and more Promille. That's reality. A danger is not the one that directs a car with a few tenths of promille in the blood, about between 0.1 or 0.8 promille. We cannot allow you to criminalise all those whose alcohol content in the blood is below this limit of promille. The Austrian People's Party certainly does not intervene for the alcoholic car driver or driver. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller referred in his speech to the fact that organised crime cannot be discovered in the security report. Mr. Barmüller has signed down – there is only one liberal present in the hall – security policy. There is a good deal of organized crime. On the one hand, on the other hand, you point out that you do not find any reference to organised crime in the Security Report, but on the other hand you quote the EDOK, which deals successfully with organised crime. Now I can tell you that our state is increasingly confronted with crimes of organized groups and that, since the opening of the eastern borders, this organized crime, accompanied by the greatest brutality, has become increasingly important. It is the task of our security policy to oppose this increasingly developing crime with clear legal and technical measures. The geopolitical situation of Austria and our eastern proximity make us a hub for international criminal organizations and international syndicates. We cannot close our eyes if we are told that we are faced with tow crime to the extent that all of us have to think about. All ethnic groups, religions, nationalities are affected and, in particular, the federal states of Burgenland, Salzburg, unfortunately, God also my homeland Upper Austria. The tow has become one of the most lucrative forms of crime, with them trafficking in human beings and prostitution. Mr Barmüller! I don't understand you don't want to see all this. They also do not see those problems of international and organised crime when we are talking about the fact that we have to deal with Romanian intrusions, Hungarian serial intruders, international drug cures and arms trafficking, and that the instability of the CIS states presents us with particular problems. It is our duty to oppose this organised crime with the greatest hardness and consequence and with all possible means in democracy. We can only support the use of new instruments against these serious crimes. We need these instruments and therefore we need to take care of them here in the National Council. We need the modern methods of hearing, the leniency regulation and the hidden investigation. This is in the sense of our security, in the sense of all Austrians. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me give you a few more thoughts on youth crime, which is more worrying to me. In contrast to all other age groups, the age group between 14 and 19 years of age has to take note of an increasing rate of crime; it has risen from 13.6 to 14.5 percent. In this case, the percentage is meaningful and not absolute. Unfortunately, we must note that there is an increase of 8.8 per cent in the overall crime of young people, that an increase of 15.8 per cent in the crime and 7.5 per cent in the crime, which we must observe with concern. I think it was also Mr Barmüller who expressed his support for the liberalisation of the drug law. The Liberals are in principle of this view, I know. – In 1994, the proportion of those who have been in conflict with the Drug Law under 18 years of age was 7.4 percent and the proportion of age groups between 18 and 20 years of age was 13.6 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] I repeat that, Mr Moser, because I see a danger in liberalisation and I stress that the Austrian People's Party will not, in any case, advocate liberalisation of drugs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister for Justice! In the field of youth, the "out-of-court settlement" has proved to be really good and excellent, namely the compensation of the crime, where the perpetrator is confronted to the victim, in whose context a reparation is planned, has already been mentioned today. I would like to repeat this because it seems so important to me to maintain this balance of action for young people, but also to extend it to adults, and to set it accordingly in all national courts. Ladies and gentlemen! A functioning family is also a preventive measure against youth crime. The Austrian People's Party is also relying on this prevention, namely on working families, so that we can counter youth crime. We cannot do enough to support, promote and improve families' social status, including in terms of security.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7460	I call Mr Scheibner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7482	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to say a word about the statements made by one of my previous speakers, namely Mrs Stoisits. There is currently no one in the hall of the Greens. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: No interest!]] I think so. There is a growing disinterest in this group at all. However, this group is using a language that is immense, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Stoisits has today accused of this speaker's vote from our colleague, Mr Ofner, of acting racistally, only because he has pointed out the exorbitant high numbers of foreign prisoners. Rassist Hetze, ladies and gentlemen. – There has been no call for order here, but thank God there is a judgment on such a statement. Mrs Stoisits is immune, and here she can make these insults. But, ladies and gentlemen, these expressions are known to us. Minister of the Interior! "Rassist Hetze" – under this motto was a call in the well-known "TATblatt". The "TATblatt" has called on its readers to act against the racist hetze of the liberals, under the mention of the address, name and telephone number of our party observer, and the readers have been invited to send small "presents", ladies and gentlemen. – Racist Hetze – sends presents to members of the Freeman!, it was called there. Member Stoisits now uses the same vocabulary as the left-wing "TATblatt", condemned by the Upper Regional Court of Vienna! I guess that's clear again: The Greens, who always appear here for democracy, for humanity, are always to be found in a boat with extreme links, they also use the same vocabulary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We should not say more about the group that is now missing. Much more fun and interesting was once again the performance of my colleague Paul Kiss. I think he has been waiting for a brief answer to his remarks. It was really interesting again, as you, Mr Kiss, have protected the Minister of the Interior against the alleged evil accusations of the liberals and their accusations. You have to deal with the person of the Minister of the Interior. It also has positive initiatives and results. Dear Pauli Kiss! I know there are the Leitha Mountains in Burgenland and some hills, but it is questionable where you have learned to run so well. You can't have learned such a politic slalom, as you do here again and again, in your federal state! Dear Pauli Kiss! You were the one who, a few months ago – but it was before the National Council elections – suspected this minister of the abuse of office and said that he heard he had to be ordered to pay for this. – But you stand here today – the last time you have asked for confidence for this minister – and make him the wall over the criticism of the liberals. That's really incredible! I hope that tomorrow you will be dedicated to a corresponding cartoon in a daily newspaper in Vienna, because as a political cartoon you are already world champion, also here in the House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Otherwise, this debate on the security report was similar to that held in recent years. On the part of the government, positive points have always been made and it has been said that it has all been better that crime has fallen and Austria is much better than abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! God Be Thanks to it, Austria is a safe country and Vienna is a relatively safe city compared to abroad. However, this is not because of the policy of socialist ministers of the interior, but rather because the Austrians are still a righteous people and ensure that such conditions do not penetrate as easily as they are elsewhere. But, my Ladies and gentlemen, we should not compare this with other countries, but rather observe the comparison with previous years and the development. It was true that in 1992, with over 502,000 crimes, we had the highest rate of crime in recent decades. At that time there was talk of great immigration and the difficult situation. There has been a fall in 1993, but there has been a slight decline. At that time, too, all this has been cheered up by your side and said that now, finally, the government's actions show success, there will be a further decline in crime, you said. Interestingly, there has already been a preliminary report on the 1994 Security Report – admittedly, Mr Minister, still from your predecessor, and a reduction in the rate of crime in Austria was announced for 1994 too. That's what it says: The number of crimes decreased by 5 per cent in 1994. Vienna had fallen significantly in the number of criminal acts compared to 1993. Ladies and gentlemen! However, when we look at the 1994 security report, we note that nothing of that sort can be seen. There is a decline in individual crime groups, which is correct, but overall we have exceeded the 1992 negative record and the number of 504,000 criminal acts has been reached. Mr Elmecker has taken out some positive examples here. There are, however, a large number of negative examples: Heavy damage: plus 21 percent, commercial theft: plus 25 percent, fraud: plus 43 percent, addiction – a particularly critical situation – plus 30 percent. So with all of this. You shouldn't do things like everything's all right. We must note that 1994 is the highest crime rate, the highest number of crimes in the Second Republic. So there is no reason for painting, but we should rather now discuss how we could prevent further crime in the future. That would also be your job, Minister of the Interior, and also the task of the relevant debates here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important, for example, to particularly assess youth crime, which has increased in 1994. Especially among young people, we have an increase of about 8 per cent, with crimes even 16 per cent. Minister of the Interior! It would be interesting to learn what you are planning – perhaps also with other resort ministers – to give young people an opportunity to get out of crisis situations, especially in the addiction environment. We have once again seen a documentation – perhaps also interesting to you, Minister of Justice – showing how high the relapse rate of those detained is, for example, in the Gerasdorf penitentiary. Why, then, is the execution of punishment still a one-way road for so many young people? It would also be interesting to discuss this. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as foreign crime is concerned, Mr Elmecker pointed out that the rate for host workers is not much higher than that of the Austrians. But only 118,000 people were listed as guest workers in this safety report. This confirms the line of the liberals: We know that the host workers are largely right, but there are problems and a high level of crime that we have to deal with and solve in the first place. There is also a lack of a reform approach by you. You will beautify everything, and you will criticize the liberal opposition that all these problem areas want to show. Minister of the Interior! I'll invite you to: Go to the problem districts of Vienna! Look at the situation and talk to the people too! It's not a coincidence that it's about 15 years old. Districts 30 years ago had a population of 100,000 and a proportion of foreigners of 1 percent. Today, there are not even 70,000 inhabitants, but more than 40 percent of foreigners. What has happened to population development, also to migration movements within Austria, where the Austrians are leaving, you can't ignore everything! This also has to do with the problematic development of crime and with the unrestricted immigration of recent years. You, Federal Minister One, now want to revise your predecessor's reforms, reforms that have taken action. But I tell you, Minister of the Interior, that you have to expect our strong resistance. We make policy for our people, for the righteous people in this country – and not for left-wing and other criminal organisations.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7542	Mr Leikam is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7564	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Scheibner! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] "Dear" may not be quite appropriate, so: Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Aumayr: You can quietly say "love" too!]] All right, my colleague Scheibner! I believe that security policy is not appropriate to be viewed here in a polemic way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I believe that the facts should be crucial, and the facts are in the 1994 security report. [[Abg. Scheibner: Highest crime rate!]] The fact is that this safety report is a very good witness to the Federal Minister, the Executive and the Justice. No one can go away from that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today's debate on the security report is actually a very pleasant one. I can recall other debates in which the security report was discussed quite differently by the liberal side. It may be that because the security speaker is not here today, perhaps the tone is a little more moderate than it is otherwise. But I believe that the facts and not the polemics must be put at the centre of the security policy. [[Calls and countercalls between the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! "The citizens' confidence in justice, the maintenance of internal security and the protection against crime are the important foundations of the democratic rule of law!" – This is what the introduction to the 1994 Security Report says. I believe that precisely these basic principles, these fundamental values in security policy, through a number of measures, as they have been put in place in the field of executives in recent years, also contribute to the decline in the development of crime in Austria – that is, the fact – and that the education rate in Austria has not only increased in 1994 at the time of the security report, but has already increased continuously from 1991 to 1994 – even in 1995 it will be like that again. For this, I believe, the executive must be given thanks and recognition to our justice, but also to those who have created the framework conditions for this security policy. If the year 1992 has been mentioned, it must not be overlooked that the opening of the borders in the East has naturally created a new situation in our country, which the executive has called for in particular. The development through the opening of the border was also the cause of a number of reform measures, such as the merger of Gendarmerie Posts. A great deal of discussion has been made about this, and there have also been protests by the citizens who have meant that security is no longer available in these places. The exact opposite has occurred because the executive can act much better in the aggregation of micro-posts than in a service where one, two or three men were divided. There are the sectoral strips. This ensures that prevention, which has been repeatedly demanded, works much better. Significantly more gendarmen and police are on the go, are on the road, foot patrols have been used in addition, giving the population at least a subjective increased sense of security. The District Headquarters were newly established. Today, it is possible to divide all these sectors directly from the district, and this works better than it was before when the posts were not always occupied around the clock and therefore the aid seeker, who often had great problems with reaching a gendarmerie official. It was possible, however, also because of the additional "security billion" that Minister Löschnak called for at the time and received from the Minister of Finance. It has been greatly improved with this "security billion" of the equipment of our executive. It has constantly increased the level of personnel, and a number of special units have also been created that work well to combat crime and also achieve success. The members of the Committee on the Interior had only a few days ago opportunity to visit the Wiener Einsatzgruppe, the WEGA. We were able to learn about the high level of their training. The speakers of all political groups thanked the Wiener Einsatzgruppe alarm department and its officials for their efforts, their efforts and their non-illogical work, and I would also like to do so. It should also be noted that GEK is also working very well in Vienna's Neustadt, our special deployment group of the Gendarmerie, and is always at our disposal for the safety of our population. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few comments on the border service. Schengen requires of us, of Austria, that by mid-1997 we have equipped the EU's external borders according to the Schengen standard. I had the opportunity to visit all the Carinthian border services a few days ago, and I was convinced that to what extent the equipment, the number of officials on duty who have been given accommodation and the extent to which it is already in accordance with the Schengen standard. Ladies and gentlemen! I must admit that I have never found such highly motivated officials as all these Carinthian border posts, in all areas. Whether they are the general army officials with full training, whether they are the young colleagues who serve as contract staff in accordance with the six-month training, or whether they are the officials who are operated from the customs guard to the general army: All are highly motivated and manage their task very well. They are also housed in good accommodation and equipped with state-of-the-art appliances. There was not a single official who had filed a complaint that he lacked anything at the borders. I am therefore very confident that the Schengen standard can be reached from Austria to mid-1997. I include, of course, the Austrian Federal Army in these border services. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the Minister?]] – This also applies to the Minister of the Interior. So I also include the Federal Army because it has an important task to do with the assistance in the east of our country, because at present we do not have sufficient personnel to meet the needs of the poor. That is why this Federal Government has also decided to leave the German army at least until the end of this legislative period for assistance at the border. Federal army and border service give our people a good sense of security, and I am sure that the Schengen standard can be reached by the middle of next year.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7652	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7673	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been done. I do not wish to go any further with the unimportant technical details that my previous speakers have already discussed, and to address a few fundamental aspects, but first of all to turn to colleagues Murauer, who have already represented more as peculiar positions here. As more than anything else, I refer to them because, apparently, he could not even follow my colleague, Barmüller, who did not even understand him, who rightly complained that the concept of organized crime, of organized crime in the reports here, as such, is not known as such, is not statistically subordinated and is therefore not presented in terms of quantity and its meaning. This is important, therefore, because the growth of this organized crime is constantly and indiscriminately presented as one of the main arguments when it comes to introducing the so-called electronic and modern investigation methods, methods which, as we all know, are not border cases on the fundamental law question, but are clearly disproportionately fundamental rights crossings. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Barmüller did not, therefore, want in any way to point out in his remarks the phenomenon that there are international crimes, obscene, but rather consciously to point out – I repeat that it is an unreasonable way of discussing when one calls on growing phenomena which one cannot even describe as such. If Mr Murauer was so concerned that he thought he had to polemise here, I would like to say with all clarity – he is not present because he apparently lost interest in the debate after his own speech –: In this style will not be to be discussed with the liberals! It will not be in the style in which Mr Murauer has turned to the 0.8 permille limit to discuss with us. This was clearly annihilation of a huge potential for danger in road transport. Of course, we know that with growing promilla in the blood, i.e. 1,1, 2,5, 3,2 – even that could be shown by Mr Murauer – these are apparently the revered drinkers – the potential for danger increases. But everyone who is concerned with road safety knows that the increased potential of the vehicle's speed to and from the present may be increased by the slower response of a person who is even slightly impaired by alcohol. That's why it was a very gross destruction. This is so paradoxical, because he has also declared an intensification in the area of addiction at the same time. I wonder what access Mr Murauer has to drugs if he is committed to alcoholism but against addiction. I don't understand. I'm saying that very clearly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't resort to alcoholism! That's incredible! He didn't work for alcoholism!]] If he thinks, Mr. Khol, I am speaking, that alcohol at the tax must be so grossly frustrated... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You will allow an intermediate call!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We need to talk about your concept of democracy!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Khol! I'm talking! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, you're talking, but I have the right to make an call!]] Do you want to finish so I can talk? Have you said everything you had to say? Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Get down from your liberal morals!]] I would not use the word "Moralapostel" in your place for the description of foreign persons. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's incredible! Not even an intermediate call!]] This is a kind of autism when you use the word "Moralapostel". But perhaps this foreign word was not easily understood, it may be. But I say again: If Mr. Murauer breaks a lance for alcohol at the tax... - Up to 0.8 promille. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't do that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't do that!]] I'm telling you, a person who has 0.8 promille, is alcoholic at the wheel, I'm telling you this in all clarity! It's him, maybe only mediocre, but it's him. In my opinion, those who are committed to this have lost the right to resort to the criminalisation of other drug-disease people. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is a family disability! It's a ban on thinking!]] - No, that's not a family problem. Either we treat them the same way and realize that they are sick people who, in part, need our care – there is also crime in the zone – or we confess ourselves to the reverse. It is simply unbearable for someone to talk on the tax for 0.8 promills, while at the same time demanding an intensification of other drugs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is measured by two measures. Given the "mightiness", given that in the case of alcohol it is hundreds of thousands, it becomes particularly tragic. I think that we should move less into these target group-oriented words. If you think, Mr Khol, that it is moralizing if you take a certain position without taking care of whether or not he is popular, I am sorry, but we will not let that happen. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You call everyone who drinks two beers an alcoholic! That's what I think...!]] I'm referring to someone who drinks two beers, not as an alcoholic, but I think he shouldn't go to the wheel. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You just did that, please!]] That's a big difference. If he thinks that we do not allow those who are alcoholic under this limit to be criminalized, he argues that people who have alcohol under 0.8 per milligrams in the blood may be allowed to drive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Of course, he's in favour of it. It is unpleasant to you that I say this so clearly, but of course he is in favour of it. He argues that someone who is up to 0.8 promille alcoholised may drive, and that is so. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is the current legal situation!]] But, Mr Khol, this is not yet a reason to promote it when it is a legal situation. [[Abg. Murauer: That's why you can't criminalize it!]] This is a turning limit for the burden of proof. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But the drug release you are pleading for is not a current law!]] Mr President, I should like to thank We are against crime! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is an unbearable dogmatism!]] Similarly, we do not think that someone who has 0.8 per mille of alcohol in his blood should be punished. We just think he's not supposed to drive. If he does, then I need a sanction, that's right. But on and on, he can have pretty much 0.8 permill in the blood. It doesn't bother me as long as he doesn't take the steering wheel in his hand. That's the difference. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I am also of the opinion that a person who is under heavy drugs may not be able to take the steering wheel in his hand. By the way, this is also the case in the road traffic regulations, but there is no specific limit on drugs there because they are not such a mass phenomenon as alcohol consumption. The 0.8 permill limit is the attempt to keep a mass phenomenon under control through a border. Therefore, I mean to use the word "criminalize" because people are lightly and under drugs, using vehicles, and putting that into a field of tension to the safety report, that was what I wanted to criticize. But now on another aspect – also touching colleagues Murauer indirectly –: Of course, the real causes of crime are not really in this safety report, which is a technical report. However, they should not be completely silent in this debate either. There may be social issues that also promote crime. Or to play with the numbers because increasing numbers are constantly spoken of: I say to you, for example, that the 1995 figures speak a very clear language for the foreign suspects. We have dropped percentages of 5.1 and 7.2 percent for the strangers or guest workers. If, at the same time, one is aware that the citizens of Germany are included among the foreigners and that they are in third place, then it is clear that this is also a tourism phenomenon. Open borders mean a certain risk. I do not think that you want to build push prisons at the border, as Mr Khol has demanded, so that we can establish the tourists, but that we may be able to exercise his new right of asylum. I tell you, a truly refined person will not want asylum at the border anymore, but he will "come in" in a different way than a tourist. So if you want to introduce your new legal systems, you will need the push prisons you require for a short or long time throughout the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7956	Mr Khol has made a statement on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7986	I am correcting Mr Kier, who meant that I would have called for the establishment of push prisons at the border. It is right that I should like to make it unsustainable. The state of the expropriation cells in border and border areas has criticised the establishment of a standard of human rights which is equivalent to that of the border prisons in Burgenland and Tyrol.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8014	I am speaking now to the honourable Member. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8043	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. High house! I should like to say to Mr Kier that I was also in the Chamber when Mr Murauer mentioned the problem of alcohol at the tax. I have heard that he said that he did not stand for the alcohol at the tax, but for the maintenance of the 0.8 per thousand limit. I believe that it is not a question of limit values, it is a question of control. That's not the way I've heard it. If you have understood this differently, you should be more careful in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Public order and security are the basic needs of people in our country. To ensure this is the task of politics, of our executives and of the various institutions of our state. The comprehensive security report provides information on the development and fight against crime, and it shows a positive development in the sense of the security needs of our citizens. According to the 1994 Security Report, the overall rate of criminal offences in relation to 1993 has still increased by 2.2 percent, due to the massive increase in crime and road traffic offences, while the crime rate has already fallen by 6 percent. I would like to address a particular area today in which the balance sheet is not so pleasing, namely those of the displaced. According to a current statistics, the number of these prisoners has increased dramatically in the first half of this year compared to the same period of the previous year, contrary to the initial assumption. The fact is that there is no longer sufficient accommodation for this large quantity. According to the Minister of the Interior, new thrusts should be built near the border, with a need of at least 150 seats. The competent people expect the construction of these facilities, however, with a temporary effort of more than two years. At present, excrement cells are used, among other things, as push prisons, which is not reasonable for either executive or prisoners. As a result of the lack of accommodation, so-called boost tourism takes place, and the prisoners have to be transported across Austria under enormous time and effort by the officials. This is expensive and in the longer term not portable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the district alone Schärding, Upper Austria, took over 1,000 people in 1995 and was relocated. In 1987 there were still 50 people. Between 12,000 and 13,000 planning and overtime hours had to be done by the Gendarmerie officials in 1995. This means that for a whole year, seven officials are only busy transporting workers across the country. These figures show an increase of 64 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. According to information, there would be places in the Linz penitentiary to accommodate some of these prisoners, but there is a lack of personnel to guard them. I would therefore ask the Minister of the Interior to become active in this regard in order to elucidate this problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, they indicated that additional places would be created and solutions sought. I hope that these are not empty words, but that my often repeated demands will be put into practice. The Schengen Agreement significantly improved controls at the EU's external borders. It must be assumed that this will reduce illegal border crossing. I welcome the tougher measures taken by Austria through the use of the border army and the Austrian Federal Army. However, there are still strict border controls at the EU's internal border, on the part of the Bavarian border police to those Austrian citizens who are residents of this border region and who are crossing the border to work in Bavaria. This causes congestion and waiting times. I feel that this is an unreasonable shock to our citizens. The Bavarians justify these measures with insufficient border protection from Austria against eastern countries and criticise our Minister of the Interior. Federal Minister! High house! There is also a particular need for a special citizen service, according to emergency call columns, in front of those general army posts that are not occupied at night and connected to the respective District Army Command. This would be particularly important, for example, in the case of nocturnal accidents or other events requiring intervention so that an official could be present faster. Federal Minister! They have already promised to realize this quickly. I would like to remind you again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, the toboggan beings are driving special flowers. It is therefore urgent that these activities be fought hardest. In order for Austria to remain a safe country in the future, it is necessary to create good working conditions for our executive officials and thus the necessary motivation for the fight against crime. In the interests of the security of our country's citizens, I believe that we need to pay even greater attention to this area than before in order to create a positive climate. We by the People's Party will, in any case, take action to ensure that Austria remains a safe country in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8125	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8146	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The negotiation of the security report in the presence of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice is a good thing. However, I would like to see the Social Minister present in a debate on security, because the link between internal security and social security is probably not to be denied. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What about the Foreign Minister? The Minister of Health, the Minister of Defence? The Minister of Women would also be good!]] It is very important – and this is always the case in the debates – that what separates us from this American model, which you are so much after, Mr Khol, from the economy and social policy, is exactly what we do not need to discuss with God here: The high rates of crime in a society such as the American, which is characterized by enormous social dissent, are due to the fact, Madame Bauer, that there is no cohesion in these societies as in Austria. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is about security, not about social things!]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, are constantly referring to the American model in social policy in the economy, you should also consider what separates us from this American model, namely that we have a developed social state and can also be proud that we have relatively low crime rates. In America, for a small part of the population, due to the lack of social security, due to the poverty that exists there, it is almost a necessity, so one could almost say to become criminal, because one cannot survive otherwise in this society under certain circumstances. And that's a big difference. May the next few years save us a corresponding alignment with the American model! That is why I think it would have been important for the Social Affairs Ministers to sit here today, because we decided a few weeks ago to take measures which will also contribute to a small part of the situation on the labour market, that the situation for young people will also grow in some way in the field of social security. If Mr Gaál is speaking today of a positive view of the development of young people's crime, then he cannot be followed first of all by taking the figures of this report and really working through it. That's just not right! We must note that there is an above-average disproportionate increase in crime compared to the "normal population", and it would be interesting to analyse the causes of it more thoroughly. But not only do we have to assess this in derogation from Mr Gaál's opinion – I do not know which figures or opinions he is obviously aware of – but we also have to find out what we can expect with regard to young people's development. We could really have a desperate young generation in a few years! This is why I would like to see a Social Minister present in this debate, because this connex between internal security and social security is very strong and very clear and it would be necessary to establish these links. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (to the empty banks of the Greens point out) But your group is not present at all]] It's also not there for the Minister of Social Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If the Social Minister were there, would the Greens be there?- Oh, my God!]] - That's it! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's no greener there! Incredible!]] If we look at the area of young people more closely, it is not only clear that we are dealing with the above-average development of crime, but we should also be aware in this context that young people today are faced with a number of problems that would be worth being discussed more intensively in the context of a safety report – a suggestion, Mr Minister! In fact, I am missing in this report a somewhat more thorough discussion of the phenomenon of racism and right-wing extremism, which is not included. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And what do you say about "TATblatt" extremism? Is that what you're missing?]] It is only a kind of tabular overview. What I lack – and this is not only a horse from me, but I believe that it would be necessary to really include it in a report – is what is happening, for example, in the sector of sects and destructive cults in Austria. Minister! I really do not refer to it because this is a special horse of mine, but because we will have the year 2000 in a few years. And everyone who is a little closer to this subject knows that the number of end-time sects and cults around the year 2000 – and we are already experiencing the advances in some European countries – will increase enormously! It would therefore be necessary, particularly in this area, to put in place measures where we are still far from having an effective and political debate on this very delicate and very sensitive issue, not only on matters of security, but also, of course, on issues of fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom of religion, but also on the right to mental integrity. This too should be discussed in connection with young people, should also be part of a debate on safety and should also become part of a safety report. I think that this would be necessary, just as it would be necessary and important to discuss the subject of right-wing extremism in a different way than it is dealt with in this report. I am very glad, Minister of Justice, that you too are here today, because when I read today's newspapers, I have to say that the work of the security authorities is obviously being undermined – and we have had to take note of it more often – by the all too low way that some judges do not all live! – show in dealing with right-wing extremism. Minister! I would like to point out that not only in a comment in the "Kurier" today, we are dealing intensively with this subject, but also with courtroom reporting in some other newspapers. It can therefore not only have been the misconception of a single reporter who has led to the presumption that there obviously a judge strongly sympathizes with the accused right-wing teacher, but that was obviously also perceptible in the courtroom. I think it would be necessary to prepare the judicial system in this sense, too, a little better for dealing with right-wing extremism. For what I - and what I have tried to bring back to you, Mr Justice Minister - had to say, is that individual judges are obviously unable and willful to do so. Moreover, if one also takes such judges' statements not only with regard to extreme right, but also with regard to the statement by Mr Friedrich Fischer, who not only led the great extremism and neo-Neonazi process, but also dealt with this case of a foreign colleague, who spoke of the "broken ribs" which he felt would not be a problem, then one must say that it would be necessary to take Mr Minister, also from your side, to take a clearer and clearer position, even if one knows that this is a very sensitive and delicate issue. A final sentence to the Minister of the Interior. Please, Mr. Minister: As the safety report in connection with the comparison of the criminal burden on host workers and Austrian residents is in the text of the Austrian "economic population", I ask you, Mr Minister, also to instruct those who have written this report that this is a vocabulary that should not really have anything to look for in a safety report!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8260	Mr Achs has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8281	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The security report before us shows us clearly where the focus of security policy must be in the future. We must get away from the traditional picture of crime and take into account new developments. The opening of the eastern borders at the end of the 1980s can be seen as a historic great act because so many people have finally found freedom. However, it is a fact that where there is freedom, there is also a misuse of these freedoms. As far as the case of the Iron Curtain is concerned, criminal organizations have taken advantage of the open borders. Security policy and executives were thus faced with new major challenges. Today, international organised crime is a major threat to the internal security of Austria, even though significant successes can be achieved through dedicated police work. However, new resources are needed for continuing successful work. The new forms of crime require new methods to combat this crime. We must be prepared for this struggle in a personal, but also technical manner. But that's just one side. On the other hand, of course, reform opportunities in the executive field also need to be examined. However, it must be clarified: Reforms must not be carried out on the back of our executive officials. However, our Minister of the Interior is the guarantee that this will not happen. Reforms must be aimed at decentralising or privatising certain activities. The executive must be relieved of foreign tasks. It can thus continue to fulfil its own task of maintaining internal security. The requirements are large. The implementation of the Schengen Treaty also calls for great efforts. I spoke in connection with the opening of new freedoms to the east. This is the exact same problem: How to guarantee new freedoms, and how to prevent the abuse of freedoms? – The Schengen Agreement gives us the answer to these questions. The freedom of travel within the Contracting States must be a good guarantee of the external borders and increased cooperation between the police authorities. The new border control law takes account of the safe external borders, but there is also great progress in police international cooperation. All these are accompanying measures to increase security in greater freedom. Ladies and gentlemen! The security report also shows the problem of foreign crime. For the first time in 1994, the rise in tourism crime has declined in proportion. This means that we are on the right track in this area. In this context, however, it must also be made clear that "foreigner" is not equal to "foreigner". The safety report clearly shows that xenophobia has nothing to do with our host workers. The rate of crime among host workers is at the same level as that of domestics. However, the focus must be on internationally organized gangs and tow organisations. It is not the incitement of xenophobia that leads to more security in our country, but rather to the targeted action against criminals. The letter bomb series and the other extreme attacks on the right have shown what xenophobia can lead to. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you still live in the past!]] Through the constant insecurity of people, the ground for violence is first prepared. We Socialists are therefore pursuing a policy that gives people security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This policy includes the broad support of the executive. Austria is one of the safest countries due to the excellent work of the executive. The education rate increases from year to year and is already 49.8 percent in 1995. This is a top value in international comparison. Just one example: The education rate for our German neighbours is almost 4 percent lower than in Austria. This is a clear proof of good work in the field of internal security in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists want to continue this path in the interests of the people of our country. This means more security by increasing our full support to the executive. Only in this way can Austria defend its leading role in the field of internal security.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8326	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8347	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss has accused Mr Schweitzer of riding attacks against the Minister of the Interior, and he is saying that he has an indifferent view. He also complained that Mr Schweitzer had not made any proposals for a solution. To this end, I must say: The diversity of the statements made by Mr Kiss leaves much to be desired. In the matter itself, Kiss said otherwise, the ÖVP would be hard and constructive. Well, maybe this was the case before the last elections. As Mr Kiss has presented himself today, at least other conclusions are allowed. However, I must ask Mr Kiss: What does it actually do with the superior? How much is he due to the investigation of the crime there? Where are the answers to all the questions raised by Mr Schweitzer to the Minister for the Interior in connection with the many inconsistencies? As security spokesperson of the ÖVP, as a citizen country, as a human being, Paul Kiss should be interested in the investigation of the inconsistencies and the situation regarding the bomb attack in Oberwart. This also applies to Stinatz. I note that there have obviously been no changes since November 1995: neither with the Minister of the Interior, that he has suddenly changed his mind, nor with Mr Kiss. In any case, I cannot see any change of opinion with the Minister of the Interior, but I must also say to Mr Kiss that he has remained unchanged. The rotor of a helicopter is a static object, compared with the change of opinion of colleague Kiss. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of whether in the area of left or right terror perpetrators are identified: terrorism is – whether from the right or from the left – definitely to condemn! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Essential is the success of the investigation! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for the Interior, in the Committee on the Interior, has referred to the question of the perpetrators and the possible success in connection with the Oberwart bombing, and it is still clear that the perpetrators in the right-wing extremist field must be sought. For this, the confessional letters that exist would speak. Mr. Minister One! They have been unsuccessful in the investigations so far. It would be desirable for you to open the area in which you find out. Perhaps you will achieve a success – which I wish you would. Looking at the left side to investigate on the left side might mean the end of your failure in this area. Mr. Federal Minister One! They referred to the question raised by Mr Scheibner in the Committee on the Interior concerning the "Schottengasse Office" that the "Schottengasse Office Community" was an advisory body for civil servants. Your officials obviously know this better, because with your officials it is known that the "Bürogemeinschaft Schottengasse" is a control point of left-wing extreme terror and operates the control of international left-wing terror. Minister! You should – once again You let this accusation fall – your blindness, especially on the left eye, undergo a healing. In any case, that would be very helpful to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the part of SPÖ and ÖVP, the contributions to the debate have repeatedly been eroded, which declines in the area of crime can now be expected and which data have been reported in the security report. What is it like in the area of drug abuse, as far as the offences under the drug law are concerned? – There is an increase of 15.6 percent. As reported in the report, the number of crime statistics under the Drugs Act has decreased by 6.8 percent. But there is an increase of at least 22 percent in the number of cases. This is a clear indication that addiction has increased. Let me also refer to Mrs Stoisits' comments. It always accuses us when one of the liberals in connection with abuses uses the word "foreigners", immediately of the alien hatred, yes racist hatred. Even today, she has done this again. [[Call the liberals: She's gone anyway!]] Obviously, the Greens of the Security Report are not very interested and the Greens are not very interested in the safety of Austria, because they once again shine, like the more often – only Colleague Wabl is here, that is, a single interested person – through absence. Mr Stoisits has expressed himself in this way, because Mr Ofner mentioned how high the proportion of foreigners, the proportion of prisoners in the detention centre is. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that xenophobia is extremely high in the area of drug abuse. The percentage of foreigners in our population in the area of serious addiction crime is at least 32 percent, so it is far above the average. The proportion of foreigners is also higher than the average in the case of crime. This is a fact-finding, and it must also be possible in this House to cite this without being accused of being a stranger or even of "racial hetze". Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of drugs, there has been an increase, as has been noted. 250 drug deaths are at least 11 percent higher than in 1993. However, there is probably a decline in drug security by almost a quarter of the year before, which really does not fit in. The fact is that there is a total increase. There is an increase in trafficking in human beings, organised crime, prostitution; Russians come to Austria with tourist visas and disappeared here as prostitutes. Federal Minister! Drug offences are not limited to major cities. To take Vienna as an example: A sítuation, as it was at the Karlsplatz Gang and Gabe, is now widely spread throughout the city. Not only at Karlsplatz, but at various metro stations one can observe this, also very close here, namely at Volkstheater. Of course, prevention is necessary, and treatment sites are required. I'm just wondering what measures are going on. With treatment sites that can only be claimed after a delay of one year and more, we will certainly not be able to solve this problem. Ladies and gentlemen! Often, the finding made by executive officials when I spoke to them was as follows: We are glad when something becomes known somewhere so that we can watch this scene, have an overview and get hold of it. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a solution! Throughout Austria we have basically distributed a Zurich "Platzspitz" or the station Letten in small form, only with the difference that in Switzerland one has now undergone these localities changes or the drug crime has been fought in these places. Federal Minister! In your reply to the Committee's question as to what you think about increasing drug problems, you have chosen the reason that finally a problem would be foreign warehouses, such as in Bratislava; At least you have pointed this out. The fact is that drugs have already come from abroad in the past. This means that a restrictive policy must take place. Of course, a strengthening of the problem has occurred after the opening of the east. The changed conditions...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8399	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8414	My final sentence, Mr President: You have not taken these changed conditions into account so far, Mr Federal Minister. I hope that this will improve in the future for the benefit of the Austrians and especially the young people and students affected by it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8445	Mr Dr. Maitz has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8466	Mr President. Minister of Justice! Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! I was particularly shocked by a number of things in the 1994 Security Report: There were 250 drug deaths this year, including many young people. – Two recent games. First example: ==References====External links== April was read: "20-year-old psychology student is the seventh drug victim, the seventh drug death in Trofaiach in Styria." And now it's going to be interesting: "She was known to the authorities for many years as a addict. – Tragic death of a young student." Second example: APA issue of 26. April: "Drugenrazia in Bavaria. 21 arrests of drug addicts". Now comes the shock: "The youngest drug addict was a twelve-year-old child." Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that even in Austria, children and young people are increasingly a special target group of drug criminals. That is why we will continue to do everything by the People's Party to protect children and young people from criminal activities of the drug scene and to fear the parents to take their children – or at least to reduce them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just five weeks ago, from this point of view, I was able to present pioneering work in the training of youth counsellors, and today I can express thanks to thousands of thousands of thousands of parents. First I thank the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Martin Bartenstein. In the few weeks following the start of the government, he has promised to secure the training of youth counsellors in 1996, despite the consolidation package, by making it clear that they can expect financial support again. He has thus laid another important mosaic in the field of youth guidance, which can now be continued. That's a signal effect! Youth drug prevention is a declared priority of the Youth Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also thank the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs Liesl Gehrer. ==References====External links== May, in a conference in Linz to develop an action programme for drug prevention in schools. Under the title "Promoting health – preventing addiction" – I have here the prospectus that is sent to all Austrian schools – audivisual materials are offered to motivate the school communities, namely parents, teachers and students, to fight together against the addiction problem. [[the speaker keeps it to the height]] The objectives of this action are to inform, advise and lead to more sport. The Minister of Education has therefore quickly recognized this problem and is acting accordingly. Thank you for that. I cordially invite the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Health to support and complement these activities in the prevention of youth addiction. In fact, these two ministers are also part of the responsibility, and there should be additional initiatives in coordinated interministerial working groups to strengthen these signals. Mr Barmüller has spoken about drug prevention and the lack of work of this Federal Government in this direction. – It is certainly not enough, but many things have been started in a short time, and I believe that this action in all schools will be very, very, very helpful in overcoming their fear. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: Today the new book by American success author Neil Postman is presented in Germany. He is probably remembered to you by his world-famous book "We amuse ourselves to death". His new book title is called "No more gods," and to the youth, Neil Postman – quote – writes: "In particular, young people must have something they can believe in." – He is not a Christian Democrat, but he writes: Young people must have something they can believe in. I say: If we do not manage to convey values to young people and help them to protect themselves from criminal temptations, then others will do so, and that is different from what we all want.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8545	Mr Lammer has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8567	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are debating today the 1994 Security Report. This safety report, this printed book, really contains all the key data, many tables and also so-called future visions, measures to be put in place in the areas of executive and security in the coming years. The fact that we are only discussing the 1994 security report this year, in 1996, is sad, but it probably could not be dealt with earlier because of the 1995 National Council elections. What bothers me, however, is the fact that the 1994 criminal statistics were already contained in the May/June issue of a publication of the Federal Army, with all the data on the increase and the decrease in crime, but these figures were abstained from Parliament and our Members. Minister! I ask you why it was not possible for these statistics, which had already been included in a printing work, to be sent to Parliament or to the honourable Member before. Minister! I also have some questions to ask you in connection with your comments. They have spoken today about the occasional "sprayers" against the executives coming from the Free Party. – I ask you: Where are such cases known? I can't remember the fact that the FPÖ, whose Members had come against the executives, had come from them, because we liberals also praise the work of the executives. Especially the executive we have in Austria is there to help the citizens to their right when they are in distress. I also noticed today that Mr Elmecker spoke about public service planning savings. Plan site savings in executives: about 1 000. – Minister! At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, they said that there should be no savings in the field of external services, but that the main aim should be to save potential in the administration and in other areas; external service should not be affected. But now I have got a paper in my hands, after which, for example, in the following districts of Lower Austria the following number of planning sites is to be saved: Gmünd: 8, Horn: 2, Krems country: 15, Nine Churches: 7, St. Pölten: 5, Wiener Neustadt: 2, Waidhofen/Thaya: 4, Vienna-Umgebung: 10; so a total of 53 plantations. These are planning stations intended for the field of external service and not for internal service or administration. In the Federal Police Directorate, 264 and 254 planning posts will be saved in 1996 and 1997. In the area of the Bundesgendarmerie 220 planning sites in 1996 and 220 planning sites in 1997. It can be concluded that safety is definitely at risk. The starting point of this saving potential was the federal load study 1992 to 1994, which showed this potential. A protocol states that, as a result of this stress study, which is not applied in itself, it is assumed that in the federal states of Burgenland and Carinthia, 60 plantations, Lower Austria 50 and Styria are to be saved from 20 plantations. As far as the savings of the planning sites are concerned, it is very likely that this federal tax study has not yet been valid. I therefore wonder why this federal tax study is used if it is not valid in the final effect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What I wondered about was the statement made by Mr Ach in the Committee on the Interior. He said that the executive was very well equipped with planning stations and also the necessary officials. He mentioned that 927 systematic planning posts exist in Burgenland, but 1 237 officials are there, that is, far more than the number of planning posts and thus sufficient. One has to explain to Mr Achs that there is a difference between the Gendarmerie and the border service of the Gendarmerie in Austria. There are both local and technical differences of competence. Border service is responsible for the border, and the Gendarmerie is responsible for maintaining public order, peace and security. On the one hand – thank God! – in accordance with the Schengen Agreement and also with the EU directives, the border with non-EU countries is strengthened, but on the other hand, it is reduced in the area of the Gendarmerie, and we are even talking about locking up some of the gendarmerie departments. This is certainly not in the sense of how we understand it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In his speech, Member Kiss spoke of the subjective sense of security. This subjective sense of security is certainly not positively influenced by the savings in planning positions. I wonder how he sees it when fewer and fewer officials work outside. Fewer officials in the field of foreign services have a negative development: no preventive measures, less information and less criminal offences are known. Parliamentary Kiss has pleaded for more security and less crime, but this cannot be done. Mr Leikam referred to the fact that the services were previously not permanently occupied, but today there is at least one service in the area of the federal army, where the population can repay ads. In the old Federal Army service system, this point was much better fulfilled than under the current service system. Today – I can prove and prove this – 50 percent less officials in the field than in the old service system are in the nighttime. It cannot be said that there is a greater emphasis on security in order to comply with the safety mandate. We liberals therefore demand: equipment of the Federal Army with the appropriate technical means so that, as Mr Platter has already said today, the executive can confront the perpetrators with the same means; appropriate equipment in the field of the computer and computer systems – we are very inclined to do so, and if we want to comply with the Schengen Agreement, it will be necessary to acquire the highest level of equipment; a slimmer and more effective administration so that officials can get away from the non-art activities and really devote themselves to security aspects. There is a very good saying from the German trade union: Security is a state policy mission and cannot be based on the budget! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I would ask you to give more importance to security in the future and to do a little more for the executive and security of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8676	Mr Kiermaier has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8697	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Like previous reports, the 1994 Security Report is an important work tool for all those who are concerned with internal security. It is a good and very serious document that is simply necessary to be able to do good work in this area. The collection of such extensive numerical material, of course, requires careful and time-consuming research. I would also like to say on this occasion that we congratulate those who have written this report and thank them for their work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few points: For example, the many-stepped keyword of the ever-increasing foreign crime is ultimately not true, for the comparison of the figures of 1994 and 1995 shows that only one fifth of all crimes and crimes on the account of Foreigners go and the share of foreign criminals has fallen by 2% from 1994 to 1995. You should say that, too. On the other hand, in Germany every third criminal is foreigners. On this occasion of the executive, I would like to show my respect for the high reconnaissance rates we can see: in murder 95.2 percent, serious body injury 86.8 percent, fatal body injury even 100 percent. This also shows that we have the executive to praise – there is no need for any admonition that we should do so, as my previous speaker has said. We know what we have in our executive! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is great concern about youth crime. We must focus our attention on this, and we must strengthen our activities in this area. It is interesting and shocking – and this report can be seen in this report – that addiction crime has just reached a worrying level and drugs are being dealt with to an increased extent in mass dance events. That's very worrying. In addition, the development in the transport sector is also very much to be thought about. Unfortunately, with the increase in traffic deaths, we are very far above in the scale of God; of course, this is very bad. I think we have to get things to the ground. alcoholisation is responsible for a large number of accidents at the tax; Alcoholization, which often occurs after attending the already mentioned mass events and is not often a combination of increased alcohol consumption and drug consumption. On this occasion, however, the following should also be said: The strong light effects and the noise that prevail in these discotheques stir up the young people. When they get into the car, they get stronger on the gas pedal, which is due to the above reasons. – That’s not what I’m saying, but it’s people’s insights that deal with this matter intensively. Ladies and gentlemen! Today a lot has been said about alcoholization. During the debate, I called the State Army Command of Lower Austria and asked the Department of Transport Officer how the data in the driver's licenses are. This one told me: The minimum in over 90 percent of all cases is 1 promill, most of which have 1.5 promille to 2 promille. Only in very few cases are limit values established, i.e. 0,9 promille. – This should be said here and not always just black and white painting. A major problem that we have to face gradually is the non-compliance with the maximum speeds of handlebars from our neighbouring countries. Watch how Hungary, Slovakia, Czechs are driving on the motorway. It is bad that one cannot be interested in them if they are caught by a radar, so that they have to pay the corresponding penalty. A change in this area would really be an urgent attempt to bring about a certain discipline. Finally, I would like to raise a few points on a subject that may perhaps be a marginal issue – it will still be an opportunity to talk about it –: the parish guards. Ladies and gentlemen! If we have to save today because of a economical budget design and fight for every service post, then we can be glad about the guards that will be received from the communities. And these guards need to be fully integrated into the Security Police Act as soon as possible. If a community believes that it means security at least as much as an additional tennis court, a indoor pool or anything else, then it should be possible for it to do something about it. For example, Amstetten, my hometown, proves this very clearly. We have five officials, and these work perfectly with the Gendarmerie. Because of the current situation, it is extremely difficult to find solutions that this system can be fully maintained. For example, if – as we often do – the motorway is blocked and the entire traffic passes through the city, a chain of executive organs regulates this traffic, and in this chain there are also the municipal guard officers. However, these cannot spark with the Gendarmerie because it is not allowed. – No one understands that, no one understands! That's something we have to face. We have to take care of this. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Are you in government or what?]] We have already received very positive signals in this regard, including from the Federal Minister. [[Call the liberals: radio signals!]] I am very glad that this is the case. Maybe it may seem funny to you, but that's an important thing, I can tell you. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Radio signals! You're in government!]] Nevertheless, it may be possible to discuss this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Then do it, you are in the government!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a warm thank you to all executive officials from this point of view for their work they do day and night. Anyone who has ever – as I have – seen with them, looked at all that, experienced what happens at night, knows what I am talking about, has respect for these men and appreciates their activity. In this sense from this place a warm thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8792	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the – Deputies! I would like to inform you and point out that I will interrupt you after four minutes due to the urgent request. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8816	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Of course, it is most unpleasant to speak "divided" here, especially if you want to make an extensive request. Since it is permissible under the Rules of Procedure that, if we do not fully exploit the speaking time, one should speak again, I would like to give up the current speech which is to be interrupted and then let me put myself back on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8850	Deputies! I didn't hear your last sentence. What did you say? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: After the emergency, I will have my word message put back on the speaker list!]] All right, please. The next speaker is Dr. Puttinger. - Please, Doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8892	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Almost all of my previous speakers have dealt with the field of the internal security report, and I am allowed to address some points in the area of justice. Minister! In the field of prosecutors, it is obvious that the new attack has just fallen by a quarter, i.e. about 177 000 ads. In times of need for savings, I now expect the judicial authority to react quickly towards the use of personnel and materials – as the new attack in the previous year has also fallen by 10 percent! Transferred to the private sector, these sales losses of 10 and 25 percent could not remain without consequences. In the federal states there are currently 198 prosecutors, in the General Procuratorate 14. In 1995, 5 other prosecutors were added. Minister! I would ask you, as part of the decline in the case-file, to save the prosecutors accordingly. The decrease in the number of procedures from previous years is also a welcome one. The reduction took place from 9 400 to about 8 700 old cases. As positive as this decline is, I feel that the procedures are partly going out over years and take years. It is almost scandalous that 218 cases came from 1991 and earlier and 570 from 1992. In this context, we really cannot talk about improvements. Let us keep in mind the quote of Pestalozzi, who said: The security of law gives rise to confidence. I therefore appeal to you, bear and create this confidence! Allow the parties, Minister, to carry out the procedures more quickly – whether in criminal or civil matters! I would also like to repeat here my basic statement, which I made last time in the security report, when I asked how marked is the inconsistency of a perpetrator who is only sentenced after many years. I dare to say: relatively small. For if the punishment does not follow the foot, then the right has lost its right, I believe. I am particularly pleased that the Security Report again stresses the importance of the District Courts by identifying 72.2 percent of all criminal proceedings as falling within the jurisdiction of the District Courts. Since it is 4 p.m. but I would like to do a little more on this subject, I will have to interrupt my speech at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8930	Thank you, honourable Member. Deputies! You have a remaining speaking time of 7.3 minutes. I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 1 of the agenda so that the urgent debate on the urgent matter can take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and at 4 p.m. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Dkfm. Holger Bauerand colleagues at the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on rising unemployment and further immigration from foreigners to Austria (603/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8966	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 603/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9126	I give the floor to Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauera's first questioner to justify the question. His speaking time is 40 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9153	High house! Federal Minister! Austria has been facing the biggest wave of pleite and the highest unemployment since the post-war years since the last year – to date. Unemployment reached a new peak in February of this year with a quota of around 9 percent. The approximately 265,000 unemployed in March are divided into around 227,000 foreigners and around 37 000 foreigners. It is important to note and interesting in this context what the rates of increase are, on the one hand, for the countries and, on the other hand, for the foreigners. In the current period, the rate of increase in unemployed nationals was 13.8 per cent – bad enough – but for foreign unemployed people 28.1 per cent. So 13.80 percent compared with 28.10 percent. This also corresponds to a long-term trend and the fact that the proportion of foreign unemployed, as a percentage, is higher than that of nationals. I have said that this is to be taken into account and of interest, because I am already wondering what the host worker system is, because it is for the benefit of both, namely, the host worker on the one hand and the Austrian economy on the other. Does it make sense and right for a host worker system to produce more unemployment, higher unemployment rates for visiting foreigners than for the locals? Something can't be right. This alone shows that your system of host workers must be a little lazy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By the way, these are facts and figures that everyone can read. They come from publications of the Austrian labour market service. No one will be able to put it in my mind, I would have brushed something together or congregated it. The figures put together and contrasted very well I myself, that will be I'm sure you'll admit to me, but they're all from these publications. I would like to say to you that the completeness is still a fact, namely that the approximately 230 000 unemployed foreigners are confronted by some 275,000 foreigners. If I have just said that I am adding this to completeness, then I would like to say that I am aware that these two figures – 230 000 unemployed foreigners on the one hand and 275,000 foreigners on the other – cannot be countered without a doubt. That is clear and conscious. [[Call the SPÖ: Why do you say it?]] Mr President, I should like to thank That's different. If you do not like a fact, then it is pushed aside, pushed out, then you must no longer point out, for it could produce consequences and conclusions that you do not want – for whatever reason. In this regard, we differ: We liberals also break our minds, too, not so easily analysed and associated facts and causes that can lead to a solution to the problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: This debate on the problem of the fact that there are 230 000 unemployed foreigners on the one hand and 275,000 foreigners on the other, should be conducted in a serious manner. First of all, it is necessary to examine the efficiency and consistency of the Austrian job placement. [[Abg. Oillinger: But without you, so that the seriousness is granted!]] Dear friend, watch out for a little bit, maybe you'll be able to understand what I mean and what I want! Secondly, One could and should lead this debate in the direction to what extent – let me put it this way – there are no incentives to return to a legal employment relationship, once – for whatever reason – one has left it. – Because our pleasantly dense and secure social network, combined with a consistently executed coup, often brings in more under the line than if one follows a relatively laborious official – in order not to say: legal – employment. On this side too, this problem must be examined once without prejudices and prejudicials. That's what you're going to come to when you're seriously dealing with it. This discussion should certainly also be guided by the fact that, in the case of the corresponding offer, I would like to stress: "in the case of the corresponding offer" – from the considerations of the profit-making, profit-maximation would be more cost-effective, foreign workers than the more expensive domestic ones – provided that, as has already been said, they find the corresponding offer. Therefore, I can still understand the Austrian entrepreneurs to a certain, very limited degree – even though what they do in part, as I will explain afterwards, is very shortsighted. But I cannot understand at all, Mr Ververtnich, Mrs Hostasch, the official representatives of the Austrian workforce who lend their hand to a policy, who support it – which means they support it! – that there is such a wide range of cheap, foreign workers, which – I will inform you of an OECD study – will push Austrian workers out of the Austrian labour market. I don't understand! I must tell you this in all clarity and honesty. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Hostasch! I told you: This is not a claim of the FPÖ. You should only have the kindness and ask your employees to present such reports to you. You would only have to read the 1992 OECD report, since it was already written – in time! You would therefore have been able to change your policy for a long time, if you had not seen it yourself. In this Austrian study, it is found that the large inflow of foreign workers has led to the eviction of domestic workers on the Austrian labour market. – End of the quote from the OECD study 1992. So no invention of Mr. Bauer. In this OECD study, however, there is still something to be found: Since this inflow of foreign workers is mainly "less qualified" – not my choice of words – "employees", this leads to a decline in the productivity characteristics of the Austrian economy. This too comes from the OECD report, not from Holger Bauer or the Freeman. And I think the ladies and gentlemen who work in the OECD will understand a little of it, not only you from the Chamber of Workers, the Trade Union Confederation and the Austrian Economic Association. So, as simple as you do, things are obviously not. In any case, you – this is the summary of this study – with the immigration policy you have pursued and continue to operate, not only to the local workers, Mrs Hostasch and Mr Verzetznitsch, but also to the Austrian economy as a whole – have also been harmed by the loss of productivity due to too many unqualified workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I wonder again and again and again why you are not finally turning to the Swiss seasonal model proposed by us for a long time and starting from your apparently unfit host worker quota model. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We do that anyway!]] You don't. Don't say we'll do it anyway. Where? When? Who? - No one! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 50,000 seasonal eggs!]] Look It is the package of integration negotiated by Mr Khol. Where is there, at least, the seasonal kidney anchored? - Nowhere, nowhere! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 50,000 seasonal eggs!]] I know you're telling this outside, but it's not true. You say the untruth – or you stupidly banish the truth, Mr. Cot! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really wonder why you don't. I am telling you why you are not actually doing this, because I cannot assume that you do not understand what it is all about, and you do not see the benefits that this model has to that of you: I have the suspicion that you are not turning around because the proposal has come from us liberals and will move on. Anyway: If there is a model, Mr President, which, on the one hand, covers an actual or supposed need of the Austrian economy for certain additional workers, without, on the other hand, having to take place a significant displacement process on the labour market, without falling into the weight of follow-up costs by the inflow of foreign labour, if there is such a model, then it is the Swiss seasonal model. It is not for nothing that the Swiss, who are well-known to expect, apply to Mr Feurstein. – Whether you can count on it, escapes my knowledge, but since you shake the head, you obviously cannot. – The Swiss have been applying this model for decades, and it cannot be assumed from the outset that they are generally characterized by particular xenophobia. Before I come to speak about the package of integration planned – your response to problems in the labour market in the domestic economy – as you call it, I would like to remind you of a quote which is very good for what I would like to say to you. It is a quote from the series of writings of the ORAC publication "Economics and Society" – this series of writings should not be entirely unknown to workers in particular. But I doubt that they have read the article. In this article, it is said – literally – that: "Today it is necessary to ask the question whether it was useful to recruit so many additional workers abroad in such a short time... In any event, immigration needs to be reduced in such a way that sufficient supply of schools, apartments and other infrastructure can be ensured and the social acceptance of foreigners is no longer at risk." – End of the quote from the series "Economics and Society" – ORAC publisher, workers' chamber close by, we say that. This is exactly the view of the things we have of freedom. That's exactly the point: As long as we are not able to provide the appropriate infrastructure, such as kindergartens, schools – I count that now a little unsystematically –, teaching institutions, social institutions, apartments et cetera, and at the same time have an exorbitantly high unemployment rate, we demand the following: Stop immigration until the unemployment rate has been reduced to a reasonable level and we can afford these things! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is exactly our position. On the other hand, if I look at your proposed integration package in response to all these problems, I can only say: You have learned little – or you don't have any consequences from all the things published in your own areas. They don't pull them, and I wonder, why? I find no real answer – except ideology, which makes you blind and deaf for all these things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When I look at your integration package, I also wonder if you are aware of the importance of providing correct answers, the dimension and the deeper causes of these problems. - I don't think so! Maybe you read all these studies, maybe not, I don't know. In any case, they do not act accordingly. We currently have a good 1 million foreigners in Austria, 275,000 of whom live illegally here. This is a remarkable thing if it is possible to offer a state that 1 million foreigners are illegally staying here, but that is how it is now. – Professor Novotny shakes his head; you can't do anything, he thinks. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's your estimate!]] I have been waiting for that, so I have written down where this estimate comes from, Mr Novotny. You shot your knees, Professor. This estimate comes from the old mayor Zilk from Vienna, from the new mayor Häupl, from the SPÖ City Councillor Hatzl and from the Ministry of the Interior, when it was not a Foreign Ministry, that is, from the colleague Lösnak. And that, I think, should be enough for you, Mr Novotny. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] I am not resisting my speaking time with your calls, which are supposed to deny every substance and, obviously, only interfere, Professor. Obviously, you know that from your students, which you will probably also love in this way, I suppose. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Just don't move!]] If you put 1 million in relation to the Austrian population as a whole, you will be able to do so very quickly – if you are capable of using basic accounting methods, and I guess that’s what I suppose – that we have 12 percent of foreigners in Austria. We are thus in the top European field. I would just like to mention this in order to make it clear that no one needs a bad conscience that we Austrians have not shown European or international solidarity in this sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With our solidarity, we are at the forefront of Europe, but I believe that it should now be enough to play preferential students. There's something to add: These 12 percent are not evenly distributed across Austria, but are concentrated on very specific agglomerations. I'm Vienna MP, I know what I'm talking about. My constituency is Vienna Süd, a constituency in which social democracy once had a three-quarters majority. You can be happy if you hold the absolute majority there at the next election, and I will do everything you can to lose it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I have not said that it will be so, but that I will try to do so! You have to bring to the German language a little bit of fine feeling and listen to more facets. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're saying "doo"!]] Yes, I speak German, so it is. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're trying!]] Yeah, I'm trying. But I also know what I'm talking about. We have 470 000 foreigners in Vienna. This corresponds to a share of the total population of Vienna of just under 30 percent. And these 30 percent focus on certain urban areas. [[Abg. May. Firer: 80!]] There are in Vienna districts with a foreign share hard on the 50 percent mark: Five house and Ottakring. There are districts where foreigners make up the majority. There are compulsory school classes in Vienna – Mr. Eder will be able to confirm it to me – with a share of 70 percent of foreigners. They did me wrong to put in some form a fundamental xenophobia or xenophobia. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Really not! But I have to do that with myself anyway, I know it for myself, and I tell you. [[Abg. Oils: Look in the mirror!]] Can you suspect people, fellow citizens, who live in such districts or districts who send their children to school classes with a 70 percent share of foreigners, that they feel that they have no security that they have become foreigners in their own home country, that they have concerns and fears, problems with this circumstance? [[Abg. Oils: I live!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Me too!]] You can't and shouldn't just wipe it out! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would therefore suggest certain rulers to leave their penthouses in the city, their villas and properties in the Nobel Districts of Vienna and, for example, to go to my constituency – or even better to Ottakring or to Vienna-Fünfhaus. Perhaps the rulers from the Nobel Quarters and Penthouses would then understand the dimension and all facets of this problem. Then they would see and perhaps understand that they have damaged not only the domestic labour market, Austrian workers, but also the Austrian economy as a whole, with their current immigration and foreign policy, with their labour market policy in the foreign sector. Then they might understand that this problem also has other facets, namely the Facette housing market, the Facette kindergartens, the Facette schools, the Facette social acceptance, the Facette social security for all these immigrants. You know what it's all about, Mrs. Fuchs. [[Abg. Fox: I live in favorites!]] Yes, I know! They just don't draw the consequences from these things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New call of the abg. Fuchs.]] No, you don't understand! Not you personally perhaps, your party, your group, together with the ÖVP, did not understand it anyway! Because you continue your policy – with the integration package under a little changed sign – in the matter itself unchanged and consistently. I'll prove it. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Just because you're loud, that's not right yet!]] [[Abg. Gaál: We don't have a foreign problem!]] Please hold that: My colleague from Vienna – this is the interesting one, he is from Vienna's favourites and will soon have to stand for it, that is, in the upcoming election campaign – says smoothly: We don't have a foreign problem in Vienna! [[Abg. Gaál: In the political constituency where you are at home, there is no such thing!]] Come on. You're with me, you're there sometimes, too... [[Abg. Gaál: You don't know her in the constituency!]] Mr President, you know what I'm saying to you, and I don't think about it: I have as many favorite voices as you all! Provable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have not understood or you do not want to understand what it is about, because you continue your policy with the integration package, and the integration package means that up to 24 000 new immigrants per year can come to Austria. You can calculate this yourself: By counting all the quotas together, plus those people to fall out of the quota net, you'll get that number. This means that there will be new additional burdens and new and additional tensions, especially – I have already mentioned – in the field of kindergartens, schools, teaching facilities, apartments, medical care, other social services and, above all, social acceptance – if there is more. We already have problems with it, and to say we don't have it, that's bird-strout policy! And I don't understand how a Member of Parliament can say this from Vienna's favourites. He's supposed to be on the Victor Adler market once! He does not need to say a sluggish about foreign policy if he is having a discussion there, but after five minutes the topic of foreigners is addressed by the audience, not lit by politicians. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you obviously don't go there. I also see you very rarely, only when shopping, Mrs Fuchs, I have seen you once. [[Abg. Fox: It's my husband's only shopping!]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: If you count the costs incurred in all these additional areas of problem due to further immigration, then you will finally flatten the claim, support a high proportion of foreigners through taxes and taxes to our public budgets. I beg you! Of course, if you only take out the social benefits "unemployment benefit" and the contributions of the host workers to unemployment insurance on their own, then this bill may still be applied at the moment. But if you sum up the total cost and the follow-up costs of the high proportion of foreigners in all the areas that I have listed here quite completely, then you will see that you have to mutilate this claim. She's just not right! Our foreigners will cost us more than they will bear if I can say this as an economic operator. For this very reason, like the study of the ORAC publication, we say: Stop immigration, stop immigration, until we can solve and finance these problems until we have an unemployment rate that continues to suffer from other host workers. Similarly, you should say goodbye to your deceptive hope that a further increased proportion of foreigners will secure our pensions. This is a very short-term conclusion. In the medium to long term, it is a trick to believe that. They just need – not the Holger Bauer, but I've been working on it because I'm interested and because it fits into the problem in my constituency – to look at the study of the European Centre for Welfare Policy. It first warns of the social and cultural consequences of unrestricted immigration. It goes on to say – I quote – there: A sub-proletariat is being created to do the dirty work. Even in the domestic population, massive immigration will not be supported. – And by the way: Currently there is 4 percent of foreigners' share among pensioners. In 2020, however, it will already be 18 percent. They too will then be burdened by the local pension system. Ageing cannot be solved by immigration. Because it is unlikely that there will only be a loud zero to ten years of age, so that our population pyramid will be restored. – As far as quotations from this study are concerned. So you're trying to make that up! Do not go home with this claim, which is not true: Yes, we have to do that with our aged population, we need someone who pays our pensions! That might be true for five years, maybe six or seven years. But then it turns around for the reason mentioned in the study. Last point: Similarly, you should stop claiming that with your intended integration package and its right to family allowances for domestic host workers or foreigners, you will be subject to an international and therefore almost mandatory human right. They claim: We are thus fulfilling a human right enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. – I heard this claim, I read that claim. You say where you need to discuss and you may not like to hear this: That's what we have to do. That's how you argue. The European Court of Justice took a very clear and clear decision in February of this year, in which there is nothing at all to interpret and discuss. It has been put to the fore: The refusal or non-approval of a family estate by the host country is in accordance with human rights. It is also justified why: because the right of the individual to family succession is opposed to the right of the host country to control and control immigration. Yes, the Minister of the Interior laughs because he does not want to believe that it is. But I can convey this knowledge to you. [[Interlocutory call from Federal Minister Dr. Einm.]] Why do you know that you know it better than I do? You seem to be infected by some hybrids, Minister. But I've always put that in your mind. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr Dkfm. Bauer, this is a social aid beneficiary!]] Mr Khol, I know why you are intervening: Because you obviously have a bad conscience about what nonsense you have negotiated! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The judgment is not applicable!]] There is no reasonable reason why – although under changed omens, but basically, and after all, the current immigration policy is continued. I see no one except that you have your ideological glasses. Or – perhaps for the ÖVP – because the pressure of certain, equally ideological circles – I am thinking of left-wing Catholics – is so great that you have become blind and insensitive to this pressure that you do not benefit Austria with that of your policy, but that you are producing more costs with your labour market policy, with your immigration policy, with your foreign policy. [[Complaints with the liberals]] You have become blind and insensitive to seeing that with this policy you are further and more at risk to the social acceptance of foreigners and thus, in the end, I do not wish to do so, and I will not contribute to it, endanger the social and internal peace of Austria. High house! On the occasion of this urgent request, we want to discuss and discuss with you all these things in peace, in a sense, but in a serious way. – Sometimes I still have a temperamental attack, despite my 50 years, Mr. Khol, but: I have tried to explain things serious with facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] You must not always close to the content of the sound, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Left Catholic hasn't mentioned me yet!]] With this urgent request, we want you to place the cards openly on the table. Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka – you both have essentially negotiated this with the Minister of the Interior and Mr Hums – we want to make urgent use of this discussion, which we want to hold with you today!-....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr Kostelka wasn't there!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not want to give up hope from the outset – if I see your sweet facial expression, Mr Khol, then I doubt it – that if the debate is conducted seriously and with discretion, a rethinking of what you want to do in a legislative project is possible. We do not want to give up hope because we are convinced that this would be good for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9640	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9661	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by stressing once again, as in several special sessions, that for the Austrian Federal Government and for the coalition, employment policy, job security and the fight against unemployment will have priority, as in recent years, and in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Please do not like in recent years!]] This includes an integrated and well-controlled policy of employment of foreign workers adapted to the situation. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, it is crucial for us that we continue our work on employment policy even in times of worse international economic development, which we cannot discuss away, and in spite of fiscal consolidation. I would just like to remind you briefly of what has already been explained here several times: Even during the period of fiscal consolidation, the necessary savings in the budget, we will increase the funds for active labour market policy by more than 1.5 billion, namely more than 6.5 billion schilling in this year. In order to ensure the future quality of the Austrian economic location, we will, among other things, continue to develop the infrastructure consistently and with additional resources, while at the same time creating jobs for the construction industry in which there are currently considerable problems – that is not to be debated – which will help to secure the future of Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This and a number of other measures have led us to be far better off than most other European countries in these difficult times – I stress once again: we must not calm down, but that is how reality looks – still in international comparison with these measures, far better than most other European countries. Again – not to calm down, just to determine reality –: The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate, according to EU criteria in Austria, is around 4 per cent, with the average of the European Union at around 11 per cent. If you have quoted data from February in your urgent request and have asked for data from March, then probably the reason is that you have not requested the latest current data, which has now become considerably cheaper. This proves the success of our policy that you are using data from the Freeman from February, although you have explained that AMS data is of course available to you. So you have quoted data from February here in your introduction – but I also tell you that the weather is important for this time. 294,000 unemployed people you said. Yes, these 294,000 unemployed people are far too many, just as the present number is still too much for us. But the number 294,000 unemployed comes from February and to the present day it has fallen to 221,000. That must also be determined. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The number of unemployed foreigners – this has also to do with the construction sector – has been difficult and there are still difficulties there – has now fallen to 25,000. – Nevertheless, I say: These are not figures that can calm us down, but this makes it necessary for us to consistently take further action. We cannot calm down the fact that Austria is better off than other countries in this regard. We cannot calm down either that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in all of Europe. We must do everything – and this also happens – so that we reduce this rate of unemployment and secure employment even further – despite the difficulties that exist in many areas. It is also to be asked: How do we deal with the foreigners employed here? How do we deal with labour market policies in the field of foreign employment? – It’s safe: Even today, as it is necessary to act restrictively, everyone who considers the economy objectively needs to see that we also need foreign workers in the interests of the economy and the economy as a whole. It would be impossible to say now: We send all foreigners home, and then we no longer have unemployment! Those who claim that really don't understand the economy. I do not believe that these claims by you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, are really serious. To this end, Mr Holger Bauer understands far too much of the economy as that he could really mean it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In other words, we are now committed to ensuring employment. We agree that, in times of more difficult employment, we should, of course, be primary to those who are in Austria, for those who are already employed in Austria, for those who are legal in Austria, for those who seek employment and for those who are looking for integration. It is the concern of both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of the Social Affairs that, in this situation, we are pursuing a very restrictive, practically zero immigration policy for foreign workers. This is also the goal of a new novel, which the Minister of the Interior will of course be represented here himself. So it is not about bringing more workers into Austria, but rather controlling this move for the next time to ensure that Austrian employees and those who are legal here as foreign workers secure the job and protect them from wage dumping. Mr Holger Bauer has spoken against wage dumping and, if I have understood him correctly, has said that he is in favour of a model that foreign workers should be and work without social security in Austria for a short time. That would be a real decisive wage dumping measure, because if some of the workers were not to pay social security contributions and then to postpone them without any protection, that would not be right! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's where he's been misunderstood! I can calm you down!]] Similarly, it would be impossible to understand if we were to say to those – whatever sounds that way: there are unemployed foreigners with us –: Shouldn't we just push them off? It would not be right for us to send away the workers we need in the economy who have paid their unemployment insurance contributions on the first day after they have lost their job, without any social benefits. That can't be our goal! However, it is our objective to take into account the labour market situation in Austria with a very, very restrictive approach. The labour market situation in Austria is certainly to be described as serious. Therefore, all measures are necessary – we will also take them – in order to secure employment. This includes the controlled and currently most restrictive immigration policy for foreign workers. After this introduction I would like to come to the answer to your questions. Question 1 on the development of employment between 1991 and 1995: There were 2,731 million people employed in 1991. This figure rose to 2,768 million in 1995. The number of foreigners employed in Austria increased from 243 000 to 269,000 over the same period. In this period, the number of unemployed persons noted has increased from 164 600 to 190 800, which the unemployed foreigners over the period from 20 500 to 24 900. The number of reported open spaces has fallen from 49 500 to 25 000. On the question 2, how many foreign workers in Austria were employed in March 1996 who do not need a work permit. First of all, it should be noted that this is essentially the area of labour from the European Economic Area. In March, 23 986 EEA nationals were employed in Austria. There are no figures for the other non-permissible workers under the Foreign Employment Act. This figure is extremely small, however, because it is the members of international organisations – diplomats, university members and so on. On the question 3, how many foreign workers who do not need a job permit were unemployed in March 1996. – There were 3 597 EEA citizens reported as unemployed. Question 4: Why is the federal highest continuously exceeded, at the end of March 1996 about 11 000? On this question, I must correct: We have never exceeded the highest number of federal states, which is laid down by law – even now. Something's being mixed up: The Federal maximum is 8 per cent for the normal sector, in addition a percentage point for special groups of workers, for example for young people of second generation of guest workers who have grown up here. In total, therefore, the maximum number of the federal authorities, including these special population groups, is 9 percent. We've never been over it. The 9 per cent federal maximum, which is provided for in the law as a whole, has not been reached either. At the end of March, 20 000 jobs were still available to exploit this number, but they are not exhausted, but in this case they are just below the actual limit that we need, because this time again, we want to make very special participation in the labour market of those young people who live in the second generation in Austria, those young people who have grown up here, who have gone to school here – this is a special concern for us. Everything else would be human and socially incomprehensible! Therefore, it is used as a percentage point provided for in the law – in accordance with a regulation – so that young people in the second generation who have grown up here can actually work as workers with special skills needed in particular cases. In this context, I would also like to refer to the Bosnian refugees. This is the essential area contained in this figure. – Generally speaking, this number, as specified in the law, is not exceeded, but is not even exploited. Question 5: Why were the country's peaks fixed at 205 500 if they are subsequently exceeded? To this end, we must say: These highest national figures are far below the Federal highest. They are only a size that will be used as a guide for the individual countries, but which can be exceeded to the extent of the federal highest. That was so planned from the outset. This lower approach is intended to ensure that the totals are not exceeded in total. On question 6: From the point of view of the Austrian labour market, how do you assess the recent proposal made by Minister of the Interior Dr. Einsamt, according to which members of foreigners should not be authorised? To this end, we must say: There is no such proposal from the Federal Minister. In all cases, the Foreign Employment Act and the associated need to obtain the appropriate authorisation remain unchanged. Question 7: What labour force potential would be additional burden on the labour market, according to these ideas? The answer to this question is not sufficient because there are no such ideas at all! Question 8: From the point of view of the Austrian labour market, how do you assess the impact of the findings of the Administrative Court on the equality of Turkish nationals with EU citizens? Does this mean, in particular, that this group of persons no longer takes account of the maximum number of persons in the Federal Republic of Germany? First of all, I must say that there is no really relevant knowledge. However, they appear to be based on a knowledge of the Administrative Court in connection with the Residence Act. Even if this knowledge were to affect the interests of the Foreign Employment Act, it would not have an impact directly from the point of view of the Austrian labour market, since the EU law underlying it does not provide for the equality of Turkish citizens with EU citizens. There is no equality in this. In no way would the applicability of Decision 1/1980 of the Association Council mean that Turkish citizens could be excluded from the scope of the Foreign Employment Act. In any case, Turkish citizens would have to continue to be counted on the highest number of the federal states. On the question 9, how much would the number of Turkish nationals to whom this knowledge applies? – This is the same answer as to question 8, because the validity of the Ausländerbehungsgesetz with the accountability provided there remained the highest figure. The same applies to questions 10 and 11. Question 12: How do you assess the burden on the Austrian labour market caused by war refugees from Bosnia? To this end: War refugees from Bosnia were not only admitted to work in Austria for humanitarian reasons, but above all because, in the case of their own work, they no longer depend on the federal care financed by public funds. Only by admission to work can they themselves provide for their maintenance. An additional burden on the labour market could therefore not occur, because these permits must also be based on the Federal maximum. On questions 13 to 15, I would like to point out in principle that the answer to these questions falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. Because of the contacts that exist, of course, between us, I can say: In this year, more than 100 Bosnian war ousted from the federal and state support actions. They have largely migrated back to their homeland. This trend continues. These are mostly war displaced persons with a right of residence under § 12 of the Residence Act. The total number of returnees in 1996 is currently about 3,000. Regardless of the fact that direct return promotions do not fall within my scope, the social sector has indirectly contributed to reintegration, by supporting a number of language and qualification courses for Bosnian war displaced persons in recent years from the resources of the social resort and also by providing some training courses that have also been supported for return operations. – This was a related measure of education and information. On the question 16: Will you also use other resources from labour market management or other resources from your resort? – Answer: That is not the point at present. On the question 17: What measures will you take to stop the addition of other foreign workers as long as the Austrian unemployment rate retains its current, worrying level? – Answer: I have already made introductory statements to this effect. Employment law provides for the limitation of this quota of 8 and 9 percent respectively. It is not intended to raise this quota, nor is it fully exploited at present. Furthermore, there is a tendency, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior, for us to tighten up the movement of new foreign workers. On the question 18: Will you take the view that foreign workers who do not need authorisation under the Foreign Employment Act should also be included in the Federal or State maximum? – Answer: No, this is practically impossible because it is citizens from the European Economic Area. There is the binding rule that we cannot include them. However, I have already stated that the other groups – diplomats and so on – have virtually no significance as regards their number. On question 19: Do you have calculations or estimates of how the expected family allowance is expected to be distributed to children, spouses or other entitled persons? If so, what are your figures? Answer: As far as I am aware, the new regulation will not lead to any change in the practice to date in those who are to follow up. On the contrary: There will also be limited limits, and there will be very rigorous restrictions on the re-entry of workers. Question 20: Do you have calculations and estimates of what are expected additional costs for kindergartens, compulsory schools, vocational schools and co-insurance for spouses or children? – Answer: There are no figures on this, which is largely not in my area. In my area, however, the issue of co-insurance for spouses falls. In addition, it should be noted that, of course, foreign workers also provide taxes and social security contributions similar to those of their nationals and therefore have the same rights to co-insurance. Question 21, a question about the pension system. In about 20 years, as stated in your request, the proportion of foreigners among pensioners will increase from currently 4 to 18 percent. – Answer: There are no figures to prove this. In addition, it also applies to the fact that, of course, foreign workers also provide taxes and social security contributions and thus also achieve similar claims. However, it must be said: If these foreigners leave Austria again when they retire – and this will often be the case – then they will receive the pension in proportion to how their insurance periods have been in Austria. It should be noted that in these cases where they do not receive the pension in Austria but withdraw to their home country, there is no entitlement to compensation. I believe that with this reply you have been concerned that we are pursuing an uncontrolled foreign policy. I can only say again: Today we still need foreign employees in the economy, but we have – and we have proved this recently – to be extremely restrictive in the current labour market situation. I agree with the Minister for the Interior that foreign workers' immigration policy is most restrictive in that it is necessary to restrict immigration so that we can secure employment for nationals and for foreigners who are currently legally resident in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9757	Federal Minister! Thank you for the answer. In the next debate, speaking times are 15 minutes each. Mr Dr. Haider came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9800	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Whoever knows Mr Hums and can properly interpret his body language, he knows that he felt a rather great discomfort in the answer to the question. Mr Federal Minister, you have tried to present a picture with figures that we still have to question, which does not correspond to reality. We live in a country where unemployment has reached the highest levels for decades, and it has also been informed today by the European Union on the basis of the latest statistical surveys that we are European champions in the presence of foreigners. We take second place in Luxembourg – you can read this today. It is not very credible if you say here that unemployment is not so bad, because, compared with February, for which the liberals have requested in the urgent request, unless unemployment has fallen in March. Federal Minister! I should like to draw your attention to this – you probably know the figures much more precisely than I do because you have to do with it –: Compared with April 1995 – that is, last year, so that we take the latest figures – the number of unemployed in Austria has increased by 25, 145. But this is really not a highlight of an employment policy that you have tried to present to Parliament here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Youth unemployment has increased dramatically compared to the previous year. Today, we have almost 50,000 young people under the age of 25 who are unemployed. If I only take the evaluation of the city of Klagenfurt from the AMS: In the city of Klagenfurt – to quote an Austrian capital – unemployment rose by 23.3 percent compared with April of the previous year, and the unemployment of young people under 25 years of age in Klagenfurt increased by 36.3 percent compared with April of the previous year. Foreign unemployment – and this is the interesting thing! – rose by 63.5 percent compared to the previous year. Federal Minister! A social minister cannot produce himself here and say that it is not so bad at all, but at the same time he is hiding – even in your data you have given us – that unemployment has also increased by 28 percent in Austria compared with last year. We currently have some 36 000 unemployed foreigners, and this is really the question: What is the principle of a guest worker when someone who comes as a guest as long as we have a job doesn't go as a guest if we don't have a job anymore? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must be considered whether the Austrians have the right to think first about their jobs. You go here and say that we have highest numbers and adjusted peaks, federal highests, and you indicate the number 248,000. It is not as many as we would have said in the request that only 248,000 foreigners in Austria are subject to approval. – That’s wrong what you say! I take the information of the labour market service 3/96 from: Fair number of foreigners – Mr. Federal Minister, listen! 273 985. It says that you have exceeded the maximum by 4 percent. You said you didn't cross her. Your own report says that you have exceeded the federal ceiling by 4 percent. That's what we blame you for: That you make use of a law by adopting a regulation to be able to employ foreigners even beyond the federal highest, at a time when the unemployment of Austrian and host workers in Austria is already dramatic enough. This is a missing employment policy that we must blame you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Don't come to me as a wine maker with your cucumber pickers! This is about the fact that the Austrians have permanent jobs which we must not call into question by means of an unhindered move! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Now I'm gonna tell you something: According to § 12a of the Foreign Employment Act, you only have the opportunity to exceed the maximum number if public and general economic interests or the situation and development of the labour market make this necessary. And now I'm asking you: What are the public interest in allowing you to employ more foreigners than this would allow the highest number? What are the public interests? What about the development of the labour market? – The labour market is more likely to show down. I know why Mr Vergestnich is not speaking today. – Because he knows very well that, in a far less dramatic situation, his own union – which also you belong to, Minister of State! – two years ago called for a reduction in the number of guest workers. That is why he does not trust to speak. In fact, if we had called for a reduction in the number of guest workers two years ago, he would have to call for such a reduction today, because we had too many foreigners in Austria and this is at the expense of the employment situation of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why we want to deal with you. We have 750 000 foreigners legally living in Austria, we have 200 000 to 250 000 illegals. This is not even disputed by the government. We have 254,000 Bosnian war refugees who no longer want to return home. Only 16 900 are to be reintegrated. The others stay there, although you have always said it differently. We therefore have 40 000 Turks, who have been working with us for more than four years, a permanent work permit, a kind of exemption permit, and which are equivalent to EU citizens. We have over 1 million foreigners in this Austria with almost 7 million inhabitants! This is, of course, a high level. At a time when jobs are scarce, I really have to ask you, as a Social Minister, whether you have nothing better to do than exceed the highest rate of foreigners by a regulation once more, and to do so as if everything were all right. Finally, please reduce this quota to 6 per cent so that the labour market is reduced so that our young people can have jobs and thus find jobs for Austrians who are looking for jobs in Austria! That must be the way that is defined! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You see it: Your own people are demanding this! The President of the Chamber of Workers Quantum of Carinthia says: As long as older workers, women and long-term Austrians, resident host workers, are forced out of the labour market and replaced by cheap workers, maintenance of the alien quota at the current level is not possible. – "Inconceivable," says the own socialist workers' chamber president! And Bernhard Schwarz of the Chamber of Labour says in the "Economic Sheet" a few days ago, whether the situation with the Turkish host workers will now give more foreign workers: There's no need for it. And you're not acting after that, Minister of State. I can only ask you urgently: Change the regulation, lower the host worker rate and create a relaxed labour market situation according to current development. It is also linked to the integration package, of course, to a further increase in the number of workers. In total, 24 000 people will be able to come in every year, so in the next four to five years, 24 000 people will be involved – whether families or children, whether labour force: We have to take care of those who pull. And now I'm wondering, What right do you ask the Austrians to accept a tax and savings package, where social benefits are removed, where new taxes are included, because of which you have to pay more taxes, if at the same time you open the doors for another 24 000 foreigners who are allowed to move in the next four or five years each year? They say: That's what the Republic is going to do! But then we do not need a package of savings if we are so rich that we can do everything you have done here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really have the suspicion that foreign policy is also being played by this government with fallen cards, that a wrong picture is being drawn. This report of the labour market service also contains the highest national figures, which are also to be decided according to the situation on the labour market. According to the highest national figures, there are 205,000 foreigners, but in fact there are 317,000 national permits for foreigners. So the quota has been exceeded by more than 55 per cent in this area alone, at a time when we have so many unemployed people in which we have to make a savings package in which we think people have to take away from their incomes. Mr Haselsteiner will speak today. I am curious if he tells us why he has already made cuts in wages at a construction company in Wiener Neustadt – I do not call it a name – the separation allowance, the large one, which has deleted the 5 000 S direct and accord premium, so that every average worker in his company, because the low-cost competition from abroad is there, earns less by 7 000 S per month. All of you, ladies and gentlemen! That's where a minister makes himself and says: We can still allow one percent more foreigners to enter Austria in order to grant employment permits accordingly. That is the declaration of bankruptcy of an Austrian-conscious employment policy which we will not allow and which we will fight with all our power! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, as far as the so-called family estate is concerned, Mr Federal Minister, who is now speaking in this integration package: How is that to be organized? A few days ago, Mrs Schmidtleithner from the union had us set out that there were already 220 000 childcare places missing. Mrs. Hostasch! How do you feel that 220,000 childcare places are missing, but we are bringing new children from abroad? These children will also need a kindergarten if the mothers should perhaps be busy. 220 000 are already missing! In the last five years, we have 41 percent fewer apprenticeships in the field of apprenticeships in Vienna, but we are bringing in young foreigners who will then need new apprenticeships. They'll have to be where after school. We are already spending 4.2 billion schilling per year on compulsory schooling in Austria for additional measures for foreign students, but now, in times of the savings package, we are getting back from abroad new students who will once again cause us costs. And so it goes on and that's how it goes. We can't finance everything at the health insurance companies anymore. The Austrians must accept restraints. The Minister is considering increasing contributions. The Minister is considering raising the prescription fee. – But in the next four years, we will bring some 100,000 additional family members to Austria, who will also be insured. – Ladies and gentlemen, explain this to the Austrians! They now have to pay their own reserves, because the health insurance fund is in dispute and because 400 million schillings are not on the move, but only the move of the family members will cost the co-insurers at least 400 million schillings. That is what we are accusing you of, because this is the adventurous declaration of bankruptcy of an employment policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this urgent request, we would like to make an appeal You are right: Delete this regulation! Drop the host worker rate! Make sure that this integration package does not allow 100 000 people to go after it! Do what Mr Cap has promised in his electoral prospectus for Hernals, saying: Hernals will no longer be able to move! Josef Cap guarantees you for this! – And this man will vote here in Parliament today and in the next few weeks that another 100 000 will be allowed to move to Austria in the next few years. That's your dual nature! This is the immorality of politics with which the Austrians are unfortunately confronted!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9980	Mrs Annemarie Reitsmer. I'll give it to her. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10005	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We admit that we have problems with economic development and job security and will continue to have problems over the next few years, but, as Mr Hums has already said, security and job creation are absolutely our priority. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the "F": Do not always pretend that Austria would be independent of the world's economic development! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 36 000 unemployed foreigners!]] Yeah, that won't help. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Why don't you say the quota?]] But don't pretend that this is a special Austrian situation. If Mr Haider stands out here and wishes to classify Mr Hums' body language, I would like to allow myself the freedom to classify his facial expression. He went out here with a grin and said: Main thing, it’s mixed’! And then he said something that is very remarkable: Luxembourg and Austria... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's what you've done!]] I have not done anything, Mr Reichhold. I took the liberty to write down a few words while Mr Haider spoke. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You've prepared that before!]] I didn't know that yet...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10077	Please use the microphone!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10092	Mr Haider said that Luxembourg and Austria are world champions in foreign immigration. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He didn't say that!]] However, it is also noteworthy that we are top-ranking in the low unemployment rates and that Austria has relatively high employment levels. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But I would now like to point out the preamble of your urgent question. In the first paragraph, you will already follow the Government Declaration of 13. In March and then in the second paragraph: "There is nothing to be noticed from these announced efforts. Rather, the further rise in unemployment figures show that the Federal Government has clearly failed in its promise to restore full employment in Austria." Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The government declaration was issued here on 3 March. That is where we have been told what measures we intend to take. The fact that these measures cannot be taken immediately should also be clear to you. But you do not have time to rely on employment therapy for the Members of this House. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where's the applause?]] I would just like to say a few words about what has been started: More resources for active labour market policy – an increase of 5 billion schilling to 6.5 billion schilling by means of the European Social Fund – including 200 million schilling for youth employment measures, advisory and qualification measures, further measures for women beginning teaching relationships in atypical professions, creation of new jobs, skills, development and further training, expansion of infrastructure in transport, telecommunications and the environment. I would also like to point out the measures taken in the area of road development and rail development. Multidigit billions are invested here. I have already said that there is a focus on youth and women, but also on the long-term unemployed and the disabled. I refer to the promotion of firms that employ long-term unemployed, the reduction of social security contributions for service providers and the employment of these long-term unemployed in the public sector. I would also like to mention the fight against abuse that has to be done so that the system is not called into question. It is precisely today that the printing media are aware that these measures are already taking place. I mean the bonus malus system in favour of older workers, where legal employment is given great priority. I would also like to mention the export offensive, the increase in export volume by 100 billion schilling by the year 2000. It can't be done within two months. This involves the creation of 50 000 new jobs. This would increase the export rate from 22 to 25 percent of the gross domestic product. Another point is the establishment of export and technology-intensive companies, the promotion of business start-ups in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises. Investments in billions in 1996 and 1997 continue with Philips, BMW, Opel, Hoffmann-La Roche, Siemens and so on. These are companies of world reputation, and if they invest in Austria – and invest to such an extent – then I must say that it cannot be ordered so badly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Forecasts are one, but they do not have to come in, and therefore it is necessary to adopt labour market policy and employment policy measures. The European Structural Funds, Regional, Social and Agricultural Funds: ECU 1.6 billion by 1999! This was particularly written in the main book to the critics of the European Union. They say that we had 294,000 unemployed in February and 274,000 foreigners. According to your milkmaid bill, you could only say: Foreigners, and then we have full employment. However, I must say: There's something similar to a professional protection, you should know. The fact that the matter is not so easy and that this is also to be dealt with in industry-specific terms is likely to have passed without a trace. We certainly do not accept unemployment, so we are fighting it with all our means. But 3 million employees are not "without" and this is due to the work of this Federal Government. You probably didn't create a single job! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A special Gustopückerl is of course your question 21 as to the pensions of this foreign labour force here in our country in the further, in the future: Pensions can only be purchased if you can prove a certain insurance course. There are no benefits from foreign citizens here, except that many foreign citizens go back to their countries of origin when they have completed their lifetime and that no compensation allowances are to be paid for this. We should not complain of lost jobs, we should replace them with new ones by talking about innovation and modernisation. I have already mentioned the various measures. I repeat: Development of infrastructure, research promotion, export offensive, business settlement, lifelong learning, active labour market policy. And now again to you: ==References== 1. an urgent question concerning labour market policy, p. 5. a special meeting "Work for Austria", where there have been such sugars as overtime control. Today a urgent one, then the discussions on structural adjustment and on the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We're worried about the jobs!]] This was an employment offensive for parliamentarians, because you have prevented the possibility of working in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They cannot wait until the measures take place. And that some have already taken hold of it, you hide it shamefully. We will not allow foreigners and foreigners to be divided. We will not allow the interplay of groups of people at all. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: With your policy you can achieve this!]] It's cheap, but it doesn't make a single job. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The "F" concept, Mr. Reichhold, is a mess-making concept instead of courage! We express our support for the reverse course of action.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10205	Mr Dr. Haider has made an actual correction. Please note § 58 GOG.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10229	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reitsamer has blamed me for claiming that the Austrians or the Federal Government are world champions in moving foreigners. I didn't say that. I said: Austria is a European champion in the share of non-EU foreigners, and I have presented the latest statistics presented by the European Statistical Office, EUROSTAT, today, 22. May 1996, referred to as: "Austria has the second highest population share of non-EU citizens among the EU countries, according to the Statistical Office of the European Union, EUROSTAT. Of the 64 400 citizens of Eastern European countries, not included in Yugoslavia, 18 500 people come from Romania, 18 300 from Poland, 11 300 from the former Czechoslovakia and 10 600 from Hungary. Furthermore, EUROSTAT 197 900 citizens of the former Yugoslavia and 118,600 Turks were registered. From Africa come 8 500, from America 9 500. Finally, 25 700 citizens from Asian countries or 7 000 were registered without nationality and unknown origin, making up a total of 437 800 non-EU citizens."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10262	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10287	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With all the emotion on this issue, I would now like to try to discuss, as soberly and objectively as possible, the labour market aspects of foreigners. But I do not want to hide, ladies and gentlemen: The direction of this question is a fear propaganda, I am very displeased with the direction of this question. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What are you doing with 36 000 unemployed foreigners?]] The impact direction is: Fear! The foreigners take away your jobs! – That’s the kind of policy we don’t want, that’s the policy that makes us afraid! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We want a policy that takes courage and proclaims optimism. But this is the fear propaganda that I personally strongly reject. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At first glance, at first superficial glance it really looks like that. Because, by chance, the global numbers look like, depending on the season, between 260 000 and 300 000 foreigners and, depending on the season, between 260 000 and almost 300 000 unemployed, the impression appears to be: If we did not have the 300 000 foreigners, we would not have the 300 000 unemployed. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: No one claimed that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has a bit of a sense of reality in all of this demagogic talent will have to admit, Mr President, that it is really not that simple. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: My God, stupid, didn't you listen?]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have a highly differentiated labour market. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Who claimed that?]] – This is the direction of your inquiry! . We have a highly differentiated labour market, a regional, sectoral, professional, highly qualified labour market. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Listen!]] Labour force is not labour force, ladies and gentlemen! Does the Philippine nurse of the city of Vienna take away the unemployed textile worker's job, ladies and gentlemen? That's the question! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is demagogy!]] The reasoning of the liberals goes exactly in this direction! Again: This is true, whether it be a national or a foreigner. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 36 000 unemployed foreigners! That's the reality!]] The unemployed construction worker in Burgenland has nothing of it if a company in Vorarlberg is looking for a tool mechanic, otherwise – I say in the direction of the trade unions – the concept of the 35-hour week would work if the workers were to be interchangeable at any time. This is demagogy, ladies and gentlemen, this is fear propaganda, and we reject it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We still have today – and I say it here, although some may criticize me because I say this as one who comes from the economy – businesses – and I know them; and I reject it, but I understand that people react in this way – I know today in the northern Lower Austria many businesses that say: What do you want me to do? I have a lot of noted unemployed people who do not want to work on Saturday and Sunday. I have two options: Either I lock down the operation or I'm busy Czechs black. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why are they not, and why are they?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the reality! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A third of Austrian workers work outside the law, and you watch!]] I would prefer to say that we have a foreign employment policy which is planned, which is healthy, but where illegal black work is avoided, because it is actually done in practice today; and I do not want to do so. But I do not want farms to say: Please, we don't get domestic workers, we don't get a foreign job permit, so we're taking them illegally. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: If the working time laws are not complied with!]] We do not want that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing we must not overlook: The question of foreigners – and that has not yet been said by any of the previous speakers – is at the heart of the question of the significance of employment. For, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at foreign employment over the last 25 years: The foreigners didn't come from themselves, we brought them. And I admit: The Chamber of Commerce has had recruitment orders for many years, in Belgrade, in Istanbul, because we urgently needed labour. We brought her. There is certainly one thing to consider today: The famous statement: We have taken labour and people have come, this statement is correct, and this must be taken into account, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to admit that it is a very difficult trapezakt to find the balance between humanity and humanity on the one hand and economy on the other. We have been given people whom we have taken as workers, and here we must now be so consistent that we can also draw family policy consequences, Mr Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Austrians are also people! The unemployed Austrians too are people!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The young Austrians are also people!]] I admit that it is a matter where it is very easy to get political small money in certain circles, with certain target groups, that is not a question at all. And the direction of the question goes exactly in this direction, is precisely on a certain clientele, target group-oriented, I would say, oriented. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to admit that the economy has always felt that if we need foreign workers, we need them if we have jobs when we have homes when we have corresponding schools. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now we have no jobs, no more apartments!]] But again: Man cannot be reduced to labour alone, we also need to see the human component. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this path, which is now to be taken, will be in place, namely to find the balance between humanity on the one hand and the need to occupy those jobs with foreigners, which cannot be found for nationals, because they are not willing to do this work. We must never overlook that! I would like to discuss whether the 30 000 foreign unemployed are applying the issue of visibility in practice accordingly. Mr Sozialminister, this is certainly a challenge for labour market administration, a challenge for the Social Minister, because I could already imagine – without making lump-sum judgments here – that foreigners are also coming to it, in Austria it is often not so difficult to work anything – and yet get something. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Now you're messing!]] So we have to accept this issue, that is not a question at all. But we have this task regardless of whether or not foreigners. The question of the feasibility of employment must in any case be examined in accordance with the provisions of the law. For this we confess, here we do not tolerate any abuse! We have already pointed this out early on, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Minister is not interested in this!]] The Minister listens carefully! In addition, the Minister has often heard statements from me in a similar way. He therefore knows where my remarks are going, namely, more efficient labour market management. We have already taken important steps, we have taken important steps with the new labour market service. Of course, we're not anywhere we want to be. That's how it's kept alive: The state of the ist and the target state often differ from one another. But I would like to expressly say here, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going this way very consciously – I emphasize: consciously! – this way, which is to ensure that we also see foreigners as human beings and not just as a pure labour force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10566	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10588	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Bauer has already heard from this speaker's desk several times today that he has done a very pointed type of new accounting. I just have to quote it: He called 275,000 employed foreigners and 230 000 unemployed foreigners and then spoke the remarkable sentence – I think he will be read in the Minutes – that he knows, of course, that these figures cannot be calculated against each other. This is precisely the right thing to do, that you can say it in this room right now, without going out completely professionally. But it was also formulated in such a way that you can of course say outside at the common tables: Well, it's not that easy, but you can calculate it. Because "not so easily" means that you can calculate it. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You can do that too!]] And this very mistake of thinking is remarkable and proves – as one of my previous speakers has already said – that, among other things, the colleague is stupid – that this is also a question of knowledge of the structures. It is only if one makes itself aware of the differentiated structure of the Austrian labour market that this sentence - "not so easily calculated" - is basically wrong, because it is not at all possible to calculate it, because it is on the one hand about regional issues, about qualification issues, about structural questions and ultimately also about the question: Is it useful to qualify higher-qualified people down to do exactly this accounting mechanism, or not? Is it really what is meant by "not so easily reckoning" that we are buying highly qualified trained people, for whom we have not insignificantly invested through our school system, instead of finding, through an offensive economic policy, a labour market in which they can be employed, for the purpose of "not without any further calculation" of Mr Holger Bauer's help services? – It can't be! You just have to say that. One should – and certainly also where prejudices may then be cultivated; also a quote from Mr Bauer: "That's a topic in the audience"; that's exactly where you feel what he's talking about – people say: We believe that you should not improve your qualifications, but forget them and work something so that we can only spend, as quickly as possible, the foreigners in employment from abroad elsewhere. Because only then would that work. I do not suppose that Mr Bauer thinks that if we stop keeping these 275,000 foreigners busy, they would not be a problem if they were still here. He does not say that they have to go away, of course, and of course – so his philosophy – just like their families. That is why I understand that it is particularly exciting for him to try to achieve human rights to family integration. So that I do not get into the wrong suspicion, I like the integration package of the Federal Minister For one thing, I have to say: After all, we are at least trying to do so now, in a symmetry, which is to say that this must be done in the context of total migration. This is a real philosophy, because no one in this House, which is in the interests of the senses and is concerned with social policy and democratic peace, wants to be able to immigrate without restrictions. If we are a country of immigration – and that is what we are – then we must precisely regulate this phenomenon. This is just a question of how, and there we are in a heated conflict with the government. But one thing is safe for us: A country of immigration cannot afford a zero rate, even for social policy reasons. And if Mr Bauer has predicted here that we will have a problem with pensions by 2020 at the latest, if we now get foreigners – it was in the press service of the party, it is written in the urgent request – I will tell you: [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I did not expect that, but the Humboldt Institute in Berlin! Listen to me!]] It is true, of course, that when people pay contributions today, for 25 years, they are at some point at an age when they themselves depend on others paying pensions for them. But that does not mean that they are not now and in the long run gross payers in our system, paying more than they get out of the system. There is also no way to go back and forth with arguments such as kindergartens and so on, because this is a general structural problem that we have, which is just an illustration of child numbers. But that's probably where I understand my colleague Bauer correctly: It is unpleasant to him that these children may be "distinct." He doesn't like that so much. Social and humanitarian matters do not matter. If we have a healthy demographic structure and more children come here from the family move – which, by the way, mostly integrate much, much faster than it is presented, much, much faster the language used here in the country so well, that they are hardly different from other children in school and therefore do not represent a real educational problem, at most in the transition – then that means that in the field of school, kindergarten and childcare we seem to have, in general, structural deficits. The move – by families in this case – shows deficits that we would have had, for example, higher birth rates domestically. That is what Mr Bauer would wish for in case of doubt, but he would have exactly the same problem, and I do not think that he would then demand special birth control in order to avoid investments in kindergartens. I don't think so, but he doesn't do anything else now. [[Cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] In my opinion, this is far too far-reaching. There is enough to criticize. It is not true that, if the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is asked to do so, one cannot see very critical aspects. I believe, for example, that the move to and from quotas or this responsibility – on the one hand, residence permit, on the other hand employment – is unsatisfactory. Today we have heard how employment rates are operated. I mean – so good, so bad – they don't fit in at all with the stock of foreigners living in the country from whatever title. That is why our demand remains to the fullest extent that someone who is allowed to be legal here should be allowed to work. This would add to the problem which Mr Bauer does not like, but only at the visible level, because at the invisible level we always have it. For whether a person who is legitimately here and is not allowed to work is, as it were, absolutely unemployed, or whether someone is allowed to be here and not working, because he finds no work, this is quite indifferent to the person concerned. Only: Once he's in the statistics, the other time he's not in the statistics. That's the only difference. When it comes to statistics, I think it is a good advice to stick to such quotas for employment. When you see people in focus, you say: Legal residence means working here. We leave the rest to the labour market and, of course, to our social systems. [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] This is perhaps – in order to remain in the formulation of Mr Bauer – "no topic with the audience", but it should be a topic in this House, because if we focus solely on what is a topic that pleases the audience immediately, then we will get to a convenience democracy, and it will not be very successful, because it will not make innovative reforms, for example, it will not decide to finally start the discussion about it: What does "unemployed" mean? I repeat it consciously like a prayer mill. Our system says: A person is unemployed in our world if he has previously engaged in self-employed work. I'm telling you, unemployment is someone who likes to work, but doesn't find a job. In this fork we have to find a new arrangement, otherwise we will push more and more people out of the statistics. Although they will be unemployed, they will not appear. This will have a lasting effect on social peace, which will also be dangerous to democracy in the long term, and that is perhaps why we are discussing this urgent question today: One feels the intention of caring for unrest here, of keeping the unrest alive, but not the constructive unrest, but the unrest, which is called fear, which is called anxiety and that is called phobia. I'm deliberately saying phobia. I am not talking to the audience, but to this House, but perhaps not to the group on the right. The structural problems are the ones that are ultimately shown when we experience something like relatively high unemployment. And if we are aware that between 1993 and 1994, I am not speaking for the government, but I simply call figures, we have increased the number of employees in Austria from 3,054,000 to 3,070 000, so in the economy a net increase of about 16 000 jobs has been achieved, then we must bear in mind that at the same time the quota of foreigners employed has increased from 277,000 to 291 000, i.e. around 14 000. That means: What we have gained from new jobs was apparently structurally something that is mainly asked by foreigners. We should discuss whether we should not address this structural problem once. But that is not to blame the people who take up this work. For if we have mainly created jobs that are mainly asked by foreigners, then this is not a reason not to allow foreigners to enter, but to think about how we can achieve that there is also a dynamic development where more high-quality jobs are asked. They will certainly not be asked to this extent by the foreigners, taking everything in all, because they have many obstacles to overcome if they want to do so in the Austrian labour market. And that's on the table once! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Therefore, once again on the question of family integration – without me dealing in detail with what comes to us first, because the integration package is only an announcement, the details are not really worked out from our point of view. They come to us, the conversations are only running. Only the contours show up. I say again: We are very critical of this, especially what the asylum flank is about – I just mention it – but this aspect will have to be brought in. We must continue to demand that the Foreign rights are fully harmonised because we cannot afford to regulate their stay in such a way as to open up employment in such a way and here. In this sense, it is really important for me to remind you of this – also both Mr Federal Minister; if both of them are sitting here today on this question, this gives me a certain hope; perhaps they see that it is pointless to move this issue between their two houses: There must be a unified regulation – either way! Because if it were at least unified, a very, very big step would have been taken forward. That still does not mean that we would praise such a regulation – perhaps we do not like it – but once it was uniform, one would be one step further. Then perhaps the fear potential would not be so great, because here living people who may be here but may not work here are indeed provocation – in several ways. They are provocation because we treat them inhumanely, and they are because they are necessarily unemployed, people who are not working and are experienced as such and are therefore well suited to cook the soup of prejudice on them. In this sense, I address my urgent request to the two Federal Ministers: If you are already very symbolic at the same time today, solve the problem together! A federal government is a collegial body. It shall take its decisions unanimously. No one will prevent you from submitting a joint government paper on this subject. Leave the narrow fields of pure allocations according to the Federal Ministry Act! Make a comprehensive foreign policy! We will accompany you critically, we will criticize you, but we would very much welcome a common solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10671	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10693	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Apart from what Mr Dr. stupidly said here about the meaning and purpose of the urgent question – I do not want to repeat that anymore – what he said about the method of the Freedom Party, which has the system – we have already experienced it many times in this legislative period, to start with a silent start and, the closer the election of Vienna and the European elections, to build it up more and more; this is nothing new, we know – I have come to see in this debate, according to the words of Dr. Haider, including the words of Mr. Federal Minister Hums, a little bit of the impression that the speakers of the government parties are also aware of this fact and that they are aware of these sounds that come here. This is perhaps the difference between the times before 1992 and 1993, at the times before the first foreign people's desire for the Freedom Party, and it is a little positive, despite all criticism and my personal reservations, when I think of the words of Mr Dr. Stummful, but also Mrs Reitsamer and Mr. Federal Minister Hums. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you already apologised for the inconspicuous words of Mr Ofner?]] Mr. Dr. Haider, who is Grand Master in many categories of political activity, especially political unculture, is particularly one of the only and true masters in Austria, namely in the method of preaching water and drinking wine – that is the method that comes to his mind in connection with the employment of foreign workers – I would like to ask here: [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: The truth!]] How to manage Your million-dollar property in the Bärental? [[Abg. Trenk: That's none of your business!]] With foreign workers or without? I do not believe that you are employed by black workers there. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I only employ Austrian workers!]] This has triggered some rumour in Austria when it was once assumed to you. After all, it came out: That's not the case, it's all legal. It is also the fact that it is foreigners who employ you in your million property. What about them? Also valid for them is the foreign exchange: Get out of here!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is the milkmaid bill also valid that the problem would be solved if, on the one hand, foreign workers in Austria were to be exchanged against those 240 000 Austrians who are looking for work on the other hand and reported as unemployed because these two figures correspond roughly to each other? Preaching this water and drinking wine is what the Austrians know about. This mesh, Dr. Haider, this het, this terrifying thing, this kind of fear propaganda – it won't go on! [[Abg. Scheibner: You're hot again!]] People are much more reasonable than you believe. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why are you so upset?]] There are, of course, your target groups, and so far this has essentially been restricted to outside Parliament, but you obviously do not have so much success there, so that you now also need to use this stage here. The most defamatory sentence you have put into your speech today was the sentence of the host workers who came here who were called to Austria, who worked here, pay taxes, live here, make their contribution to the gross domestic product, and then violate their host status if it no longer fits the concept of Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: If he has no more work!]] What kind of guest is this? If Mr. Haider thinks he's out of place here? [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: No, if he no longer has a job! This is the nature of the host worker!]] What is that for an understanding of living together in Austria, where the principle is: What is good for foreigners is also good for foreigners! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I do not understand how you come to the idea and call on Mr Hums to reduce the employment rate from 8 to 6 per cent. Your foreign exchange is: Get out of here! [[Abg. Trenk: This is your method!]] In conclusion, you should stand here and say that the employment rate for foreigners should be reduced to zero. But I admit, then your foreign woodworkers in the Bearental would also be affected, and the shirt is still closer to you than the skirt. So that doesn't apply to them. Now I do not want to repeat what some have already said, because of course it is clear to everyone that if a Turkish or Yugoslav construction worker in Austria becomes unemployed, there is nothing to do with a unemployed hairdresser in the south of Burgenland or in Carinthia. In order to recognize this, one does not even need to be sensiblely gifted. But this method, which now bores me – it does – because it has no consistency at all, Dr. Haider, this method has shown itself today as what it really is: [[Abg. Scheibner: Excuse Dr. Ofner!]] It is a method without hand and foot, only that pursues a intention: Fear to make, to hate, and to carry this propaganda into this House as well. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: such a fool!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I know the effects of the system, which has resulted mainly in recent years from the way in which foreign workers in Austria are involved, it is difficult for me to understand why one is not acting rationally in this sense – now I am again turning to the rationally talented ones. Mr Kier spoke about it before. Today, apart from the opposition of course, no one has brought the word about the harmonisation of foreign laws. Federal Minister for Human Rights and Federal Minister One, it is not only a question of taking steps in a situation where we are under pressure on the labour market as a whole, which would have great consequences and would be serious, it is also a question of calling for a kind of symbolic policy that I miss so much. Are you not concerned that we are the only EEA country in which foreign workers, for example, are excluded from becoming works councils through systematic refusal of co-determination rights? Is that not even a bit embarrassing for you if you go to ministerial conferences at the EU and sit there as the only one and represent a country in which a Turkish, a Yugoslav, a Pole, a Czech can't even become a works council? You know that because of this fact we are being smiled all over Europe. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are we being smiled, you say?]] That is something, Mr Federal Minister and Mr President of the Trade Union Confederation, which costs nothing. It does not cost anything, it does not create jobs, it does not take away a job, it is something that would correspond to living together and to the intentions, to the spirit of the trade union movement, something which has long been due. I wonder, Why not at least this symbolic act? It is precisely in times like now, when the right side of this House is again starting this issue from a new point of view, that is exactly at this moment, I ask you - or I ask you, if you prefer - to put this very symbolic file, because that would be a sign that: You really mean it seriously and honestly! This would not be the case, as was the case with the President-in-Office of the Council, who, each time she has spoken here, has confirmed that she wants to, but that it is said to be others who do not want to do so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I come briefly to the so-called integration package presented by Dr. Eins and Dr. Khol, which will be available to the National Council shortly after the difficult short assessment period of ten days. I therefore say "so-called integration package", because that is not what Mr Bundesminister meant one last year when he spoke about integration, because it affects only those laws that have a legal impact on residence. The Asylum Act is also part of this, as it also affects the legal status of foreigners. It does not contain any of the facilitated, improved, European-compliant access to citizenship, nor is there anything in it from the harmonisation of laws and, above all, from the Foreign Employment Act, let alone equal access to social housing for which equal contributions should also be included. That is why the name is wrong, but the intention of this law is correct. Right, if you could turn back time by five years in the form of a time machine – and I would like to do so, I tell you – if today was 1991 and we could discuss the intention. A large number of people – I have been confronted with thousands of cases in recent years – were among those affected at the time when, in Austria, government parties also paid only a foreign exchange for the legal provisions, all as restrictive, as exclusive and as difficult as possible for foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now mentioned by my side at any time and everywhere praise that you are thinking about it, but there is so much missing. We will often have the opportunity to talk about it, so I hope that what is necessary for a peaceful, equal and decent living together of the Austrian population as a whole, whether it be a national or an alien. Mr. Federal Minister! One last thing to you and one last to Dr. Haider. How do you come to think - I was quite amazed when I heard this - that the Association Agreement has no effect on our legal provisions as regards Turkish workers who have been working in Austria for more than four years? Yes, understood. You, then, under free access, if not free from quotas, from maximum numbers and free of regulation? I don't understand! I do not understand, therefore, because I have the impression that: Information the National Council for better knowledge. Although it is a question of the liberals and, of course, of certain dangers, I must say: You're wrong, Minister of State! You'll have to admit it sometime here. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Haider with his Bear Valley and with his foreigners knows everything well. He also knows how Mr. Dkfm is. Bauer, there are a million foreigners in Austria. I always wonder, How does he know? Are these – once it is 250,000, once there are 275,000 – known to him illegals? If he knows them, then it would be useful in the sense of reasonable action if he were to support the Federal Government in order to address these problems. I am always surprised how imaginative the liberals – because they are, no doubt, when inventing numbers. One cannot agree with their imagination, but it is very good to be reasonable, because in Austria there is certainly no state to do with the het, demagogy and disunity of people, Dr. Haider! The Austrians have recognized this. And that's going to be a lot more people to recognize. The Austrians will not give you this stage.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10915	Mr Dr. Haider referred to an actual correction. Please begin with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10939	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits has claimed that I would employ foreign workers in my forestry company. That's wrong. There is no worker in my farm who is a foreigner. This is proved by the registrations for social security. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: What about the unregistered?]] I would ask the colleague to note that it is so, even if she is not pleased, unless she expects the Styrian foreman to work with me to the foreigners. I would then take their criticism into account.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10975	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Chief. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11009	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is actually good that the four previous speakers agreed, namely that they are obviously psychoanalyst experts. They have therefore analysed everything from the mimik to the body language in order to get rid of the embarrassment, here in the appropriate form to analyse what is actually on the table as a written elaborate, namely the request by the Liberal Group to the Minister for Social Affairs and the figures contained therein. Mr Stoisits took over her part here again and brought things back into the discussion, which had already been brought before the ordinary courts. It has enriched the debate with the reference to the million-dollar ownership and to class-warring elements of the Greens, according to which ownership in this country is of course criminal and harmful. I believe that Mrs Stoisits, such and similar statements of speech will be directed to himself, and therefore I will not go further into your further comments in my contribution to the debate. It is a calming thing for me to say – and this was also expressed in the reply of the Federal Minister to the comments made by the questioner Holger Bauer – that at least the figures mentioned in our question and mentioned by Holger Bauer were undisputed in the debate so far. They were therefore undisputed because they came from the official statistics of the labour market administrations of Austria, the labour market service or the ESTAT of the European level. If it has been claimed here that, as always, the intention of the liberals is only to raise the population and create an anti-foreign climate, so that finally, before the elections in Vienna, I can't remember the exact wording of Mr Stoisits' statement on this point, I would like to say one thing: In Austria, if you go to the Market Institute and its definition, you've been dealing with the naked fear for a long time. First of all, there is fear of the workplace. 82 per cent think it difficult to find a job, 9 per cent take up their job as rather uncertain, and the majority of them fear that unemployment will rise in 1997 compared with 1996. A disappearing minority – practically no one, that is only 4 per cent – is expected to fall, and 71 per cent of all Austrians believe that securing existing jobs is the most important government task for them. For 67 percent, the creation of new jobs is a priority. That is why we have already updated this issue for the third time this year. You rightly said that already on 30 July. In a special meeting of the National Council, the subject of "Work in Austria" has been put on the agenda by the liberals here in the appropriate form. I would just like to turn the wheel of the time of Austrian parliamentarianism back by four months. More than 50,000 net jobs were promised by this Federal Government. The fact is that up to now some 37,000 jobs have been lost in Austria and that, in order to achieve this goal of 50,000 additional jobs, 87 000 jobs will still be created this year in order to achieve what the Federal Government has promised. The sad number of more than 5,000 insolvents last year is enough for me to ask why Mr Stummvoll, an economic expert here today, has forgotten, in his speech on the urgent matter, to mention the anti-economic climate for business settlements. In his standard speeches he always mentions that only the economy and the entrepreneurs create jobs, but not the Federal Government. I would therefore like to put it to the discussion, because the OECD's studies also make one thinkable. 143 000 employers, new business start-ups, need Austria to get to the OECD section at the current stage. The Federal Government is clearly required. To create the framework conditions for new business start-ups and thus for new jobs would be a task of the Federal Government in the classical sense. The Federal Government may be able to create few jobs, except in the state sector, but it can certainly do one thing: It can create a framework for an economic-friendly climate in Austria and thus the conditions for more entrepreneurs and thus more jobs for workers in the long term. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore simply think it foolish to try in this discussion to bring old common places to the meeting, such as from among the liberals a comparison of foreigners working in Austria, of unemployed and non-employed people and Austrians abroad. The statistical figures are known to all from today's discussion: 368,000 Austrians have found work abroad, and more than a quarter of a million foreigners have found a home with their family members in Austria. If you look at the differences in the main sectors in which foreigners are employed in Austria – construction workers, construction workers, tourism – it is quite evident that Mr Kier was wrong in his remarks. The unemployment rate is clear in these areas, especially those with lower qualifications. We have brought too many people in many areas and are no longer able to give adequate work to the foreign and domestic workers who have come to Austria. The crisis of the construction industry in Austria is likely to be discussed by my follow-up speaker, a profound expert in the relevant scenarios, and also by the fact that, to date, no employment effects announced by our Federal Government have been felt by companies, suppliers and those looking for jobs. The fact that the accommodation of those guest workers we have brought to Austria is, in some cases, still disastrous is not to be kept silent here. A problem which has already been raised x-times in the Committee on Social Affairs is the unsustainable situation of newspaper colporteurs. The fact that this problem is not brought into this country by a derogation, which obviously constitutes a fall of the German government' s knees before the media in this country, can simply be described as a social scandal of Austrian domestic policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For workers' representatives, employers' representatives, parliamentarians of all political groups have in recent years called for social employment for all, namely for foreigners and foreigners. This issue was discussed in many of the Committee's meetings. Why, then, derogations in this area? Who's that for? Do you want to buy new media-majorities, or is it simply a kneefall in front of those who represent the opinion that has been expressed in this state, taking some sugar at the expense of the social justice of foreign workers or foreign entrepreneurs who are now de facto at the lowest social level in Austria? I do not think that these derogations are a highlight of the social history of Austria and that the Federal Government can be proud of these derogations. Rather, it is the opposite. I believe that it is really the day-to-day kneefall before those who express their opinion in this country, and nothing else. The accommodation of some workers in Austria is partly still catastrophic. Sometimes living in quarters – this was already shown by the more often on television – which would normally provide space for two or three people, 14, 15 people. In these mass quarters, the family members, the spouses, are then pushed in. This is contrary to the liberal view of society. That is why we also call for the first time to create housing and then to bring people in, but not to go the opposite way, that is to say, limited, unsocial housing conditions, by means of a now enabled move into these mass quarters, to intensify and dramatize. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think that the arguments of the liberals can be described as unsocial. I simply believe that we want to deceive the public about these non-social elements of our own policy and, on the other hand, we also want to make a vabane game between curtain, stage and reality in the figures. Often the statistics actually appear to me as numbers players, which – my colleague stupidly expressed it in a similar way – are made with the minds of affected people. Anyone who is unemployed and is registered as unemployed, whether foreigners or foreigners, is a human being. Everyone has the right to be treated as a human being, even in his fears and necessities. There I go with colleagues boldly conforming. Then I wonder, however, what humane reality is behind it, if one simply, for statistical reasons, to be politically better at it, thousands of away rationalized, adjusted, as this means so beautiful, forgotten, turned under the line, took out of the discussion, and thus no longer dared to attack the problem or no longer wanted to attack or conceal it. There is, for me, a profoundly unsocial, a profoundly despicable attitude behind that. We do not need to generate freedom of movement, because this attitude has made my four previous speakers unisono, from Mrs Reitsamer to Mrs Stoisits, in clear, clear terms, speaking of manipulation and the rationalization of the people concerned. Let us admit in the discussion how the situation really is! Let's not let the Austrians know what their situation is! If we also look at the unemployment rates of the female labour force in Austria, let us look at the fate they suffer and how they are reduced as a reserve army, including this system, which represents the Federal Government and which the Federal Government is now trying to sell to the Austrians. I don't like it, I don't like a statistical dizziness. I stick to the concrete figures that are on the table. They are socially depressing and terrifying enough. It is even more frightening to me, however, that in five months' time the Federal Government has not been able to realize a single one of its slogans, which it has been proclaiming for years and informing the political interested parties, even nearer. The 50 000 new jobs are far away, the economic researchers predict a rise at the earliest for 1998. Some fear that he will not yet come. The corresponding bureaucratic degradation methods are far away. The appropriate identification possibility, in order to be able to pursue black work in Austria effectively and in a clear manner, is far removed. The construction industry has introduced the ID card on its own initiative with relatively good success, the other industries have not followed it, the Federal Government has not. There is – and this was to be seen yesterday in the media – a law whereby every foreigner in Austria, whether tourism or workers, would have to keep his passport with him constantly. In view of the legal situation in force, I wonder why the requirement that everyone should have a photo identification card in order to actually identify legal and illegal workers is also so severely attacked by workers' representatives. I'm just quoting the Chamber of Workers: That's human and head counting, that's persecution, identity crisis. There have been several such broadcasts. I believe that anyone interested in curbing illegality in Austria's labour market in such a way, both in employers and in workers, and in getting to grips with undeclared work, will be well advised to take up and put into practice our free movement proposals. They are not inhuman, they are not even in line with the laws currently in force, but they are even an improvement in the current legal situation. If a foreigner loses his passport in the country, he would have much more difficulty in accusing his existence to the authorities in the presence of a job and will not be detained or postponed until his identity is established than if he has a photo ID with him, which shows him to be a legal worker in Austria. I believe that from a liberal point of view, we have brought in a number of examples of reforms here. We are also quite prepared to participate in this area. But one thing I say in principle and clearly – we are different from the other four groups – is that: Austria is not an immigration country for us. We are willing to create places for all those seeking asylum, but Austria cannot be an immigration country for us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we also believe that this is the serious difference between the other four political groups here in the House and us. Therefore, as long as the employment situation in Austria is like today, we want to lead those who are domestically employed, and only then, in the next millennium, will we break our minds on what is happening to those who are waiting for jobs before our borders.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11146	The next speaker is Mr Elmecker. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11167	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal briefly with that part of the urgent question, which is going towards the integration package, and I would like to try to put some of the points in the right light from the discussion so far. Mr President, I should like to thank you If we – I have already made this public and have been criticized by the colleague Partik-Pablé at the time – say that Austria is a country of immigration, I mean, of course, historically valued and wanted to see it historically. Ladies and gentlemen! We have had transfers from abroad in recent years. People have settled down, and I still remember very well the discussion in 1991 when we went on to create the Residence Act, that at that time there have even been proposals to create a kind of local law to express it. That means that this discussion has been a long time. We simply note that, as Dr. stupidly said, people have come that we have called host workers and people have come. But I would now like to deal with a few figures. Dr. Haider spoke of 24 000 new trains per year following the integration package. I have tried to come to this number, and I think that he has calculated the following: 19 000, currently provided for in the Residence Act, plus some 5,000 students and pensioners – Member Kiss has already said this in the safety report this morning – are 24 000. I can only explain it this way: This multiplying by four years, as it stands in the draft, results in about 100 000 he means. Only I believe that the integration package should be understood in the same way as it is in it, namely that we have a maximum of 1,500 key forces per year with the statistical quota four, which is equal to the whole family – statistically; one has more children, the other has fewer children. That means that the so-called backpack can no longer be expected in the future. What do we mean, "Rucksack"? – These are family members of guest workers who live here in part – I may also give thought to: they are not legal here – and those family members who are still living abroad. The aim of the integration package is to complete this "recksack" in the form of family integration in the next few years. If we've planned: 10 500 a year Family merger plus the new additions 1,500 times four, so we are expected in about the future between 16 000 and 17 000 units or family mergers. This is a clear reduction of what we have so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Mr Bauer! It is. It is a clear reduction of what has been done. I let the statistics come to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] I have come to the 1996 figures, ladies and gentlemen. This is very interesting, even per country it is listed: In the Burgenland, for 1996 the key forces were requested 50, so far awarded 3, in percent, the 6; family estate in 1996 550, previously awarded 60. In Carinthia: Key forces request 50, previously awarded one, 2 percent, family estate this year 800, previously awarded 333. Lower Austria: Key forces requested 100, previously awarded 4, family allowances requested 900, previously granted 132. Upper Austria: Key Forces Request 100, awarded 7, Family Retirement requested 950, previously granted 251. Salzburg: Key forces request 100, previously awarded zero, family discount 950, previously awarded 191. Steermark: Key forces requested 100, awarded 9, family allowances requested 2 500, awarded 603. Tirol: requested key forces 100, previously awarded zero, family estate requested 950, previously awarded 340. Key forces in Vorarlberg requested 60, previously awarded a family estate 320, awarded 126 and finally Vienna: Key Force Requests 500, awarded 59, 2 600 for Family Retirement, awarded 1 613. Ladies and gentlemen! This is why I have so detailedly explained this here, because this proves this fear that you are trying to bring into the Vienna election campaign – I also did this on Sunday with colleagues Dr. Pawkowicz – and these are just things you try on the emotional level by concealing the clear facts. If you also call these numbers at your meetings, then you will no longer be able to draw the appropriate fears and emotions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm gonna do something. Now, if I look in detail at the sincere approval according to the Residence Act, I note that we have in the purpose of staying under the Residence Act – these are very important figures – for the self-employed 202,000 – those are those who indicate self-employed employment as a purpose of residence – independent employment 5 990, study 7 438, private stay 5 555, pension established 5 450 and family community with strangers 143 120. Now we assume that half of these are children who are housed in schools, then that is about net if we calculate this from the whole family package, if I may call it that way, 70 000 foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at and discuss these figures objectively, then we will certainly not be tempted – but, of course, the liberals are doing so for political reasons – which incite fear, the foreigners take away the jobs. Since Mr Haupt spoke about accommodation earlier, I should like to point out that the integration package in the future contains: If the economy requests workers, they must also prove that it provides them with apartments. – This must already be announced in the application procedure. That is to say, the thrust that we have tried in the urgent request, namely that we should expect a huge flood of foreigners with regard to the future integration package, is simply and simply wrong. In addition, I must repeat once again what Federal Minister Hums has said, namely that, of course, in the future, next to the integration package – i.e. the Residence Act and the Asylum Act – the Foreign Employment Act remains with the authorisation requirement. That is to say, the Federal maximum of 8 percent is still valid. Finally, a comment on the recognition of Turkish nationals by the liberals in the urgent question. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the statistics according to the Residence Act. After that, a total of 78 719 Turks have a residence permit and are therefore eligible for the extension of their residence permit. However, of the total number of Turkish nationals in Austria, only about half already have access to the labour market and are about a quarter of the non-working age. The potential, therefore, that could arise even if the findings for re-access to the labour market were fully interpreted, is only a fraction of the total number of Turkish nationals entitled to stay in Austria. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make this contribution to the integration package here, so that not even now in the run-up to the overall discussion these are, from our point of view, very important proposals, which we presented on 20 June. In June the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection discussed in detail in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We must do something in this matter, including what the reprocessing of the backpack we call. People don't break up in air, the package doesn't dissolve into air, so we have to do something, and we want to do it towards integration. And, as I said, the new move of 1,500 a year is anyway very, very restrictive.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11226	Mr Feurstein is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the concern about jobs in Austria is generally very great. Those who have pointed this out – that is what all the speakers have actually done – are undoubtedly right on this point. However, as I am disappointed by you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the impression that you can solve this problem is so wrong that it is just too threatening to express such an opinion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is also widely criticized by us, and this has also been tried by honourable Member Haider – my colleague Dr. That has already been said stupidly –: It is a method that can only be rejected by us, with a complex of envy to become public and to continue to force the supposed resistance and the distance between foreigners and foreigners. Dr. Ofner! I do not understand that the liberals always make politics in this simple, cheap way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Even if it is true, you will be allowed to say it! Even if it is embarrassing to you!]] I would like to say quite clearly: The Foreign Employment Act, the admission of foreigners to the Austrian labour market, will not change. Second point: Of course, first of all, the problems of housing are to be solved before immigration, including family integration. Of course, the basis of life must be clarified first of all. As far as Austria is concerned, it can live here, whether it has a sufficient livelihood. It is not the case that you simply allow them to migrate blindly, but that these requirements need to be clarified and clarified before further immigration occurs. That also says our law today, these things are clear to regulate. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I They have given the impression that illegality has increased in recent years. I see the opposite. I note that there has certainly been a reduction in illegality among foreigners in Austria, which is a very clear reduction in illegality, because control is still better than punishment. However: With the way in which the liberals went last November that they simply increased the penalties and further scandalized foreign employment, we will not solve the problem of foreign employment and foreigners in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. That must be said quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Member of the Bauer has continued to criticize and express the opinion – even in speeches by other liberals – because we had taken up refugees of war, our labour market had been taxed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank God... [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Trenk: That's not true at all!]] Thank God that has not been so, but it has been private institutions that have intervened massively. I call here the Caritas who helped solve the problems, the problems of the war refugees on the labour market, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It has been done great things. I'll tell you something. Because we have always pursued a generous policy in this area, including Hungary's refugees, we have exercised a model function, not only in Europe but worldwide. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] We have been praised for our policies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is the most important thing: we have been praised! We're pattern students!]] Yes, I think it is important that we find recognition and that we have an exemplary effect on the entire policy in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then great is announced here that we should go the way Switzerland has gone with the seasonal model. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go this way with Switzerland's seasonal model, which is social dumping in pure culture, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Then you didn't understand!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Read it!]] I know, and I tell you now, what happened in the years when Switzerland got worse when there were labour market problems: There were thousands of Vorarlbergers returning to Vorarlberg because they lost their jobs. Thank God they had an Austrian unemployment insurance scheme, which they could use, ladies and gentlemen! Even worse it is for those people who had to return to Vorarlberger, who had to return – and had not yet bought a pension in Switzerland, because they were not 65 years old. They then had to use the Austrian compensation allowance, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to participate in this foreign policy and employment policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] With this model, which you have praised us here, you can't find any agreement with us. On the contrary, this model is creating more and more problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] You too, Dr. Ofner, should know. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But yes, Mr. Feurstein!]] I'll get together. One cannot simply exchange foreigners against foreigners on the labour market. Whoever believes that you can just do that, he's wrong. We need good conditions for the labour market and generally for foreign employment. We have these good conditions. This is, on the one hand, an alien employment law which is not generous, but rather very likely to take into account the situation of the labour market, and on the other hand, a regulatory authority that I stand for, which the Social Minister has, a regulatory authority which allows him to intervene precisely where there would be social hardships if no employment permits were granted – in the second generation, which was born here, and in the refugees. We need a good labour market policy, an active labour market policy that solves labour market problems. States, which – I say again – have gone the other way, have suffered shipwreck with their labour market policy and overall policy. I do not want Austria to be one of these countries. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should continue this path of active labour market policy, which we have begun, and thus deal with and resolve the problems that we face that are not easy to deal with.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11426	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11448	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Bauer! You make it difficult for me once again on this urgent question. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: It is my intention not to make it easy for you!]] I understand this point of view for the following reason: I think an urgent question about the labour market situation and the rising unemployment rate would have a certain margin. Whether she would have the urgency is a second question. I believe that a question to the Minister for the Interior concerning immigration policy or the problem of immigration would have a right, that would be another issue. We may not agree, but in any case, there would be two issues that would be interesting and perhaps urgent – each one like the other. But by linking these two issues, gentlemen, you are exposing yourself! That makes you very clear. If you read this, and read it carefully enough, then the thrust you're fighting is by saying: No, that is not our intention, but we are in concern for the labour market!, clearly recognizable. That's where you really expose yourself! Ladies and gentlemen! As an employer of many thousands of Austrians and of many thousands of foreigners in recent years, I have long been used to distinguishing their quality of work according to whether they are domestics or not. Foreigners are just like I don't differentiate whether you're Carinthia or Burgenländer! In an undertaking, it is only a matter of whether the person concerned is willing to perform and loyal or brings along all the other conditions and characteristics which the employer rightly requires because they are the consideration for the paid wage. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Follow-up!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the basis, but not whether a foreigner, a native, a Carinthian or a Burgenländer is. Where are we going?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] And, of course, I'm right, Dr. Haupt: Fear's going on. [[Abg. May. Main: I didn't get a doctorate!]] You're right, Mr Mag. Head! The fear is actually about. But fear is not a specific domestic problem. Foreigners too are afraid! An employment policy, as we rightly demand it from the government, must address the problem and not differentiate by saying: It is only the jobs of the national population that are important; we can move foreigners across the border, and we have solved the problem in a certain way. – That would be a policy or a way of thinking that I would really consider to be humane! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I already admit, Mr Main, that there are, of course, still maladministrations, for example in the housing sector, in kindergartens, in the training places. I also admit that the concentrated alienation of individual districts is a pressing problem for the local population living there. I admit that, and I also believe that we should discuss it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Finally! But –?]] Only: The link between these two themes is reprehensible and obscious. Remember this, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: You must remember the quota and this authorisation regulation, which is so criticised here, which you are demanding today, that it be taken back to 6 percent as quickly as possible – with all the consequences I could not describe at all; I must also say that I lack almost a bit of imagination to imagine what that would mean in practice. I think there are certainly huge problems for the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] I know, Dr. Ofner, that's what interests me. She's little, but I'm more interested in that. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I can only see you a little bit, I have the impression!]] I think you should remember how long – and I think I remember correctly – the economy has fought with your support for this 8 plus 1 percent. That was indeed – and please, Mr. Stumbling, not only to you, but also to the entrepreneurship representatives within the FPÖ – a lot too little! We have said that we need more that we need greater redundancies in the labour market. I don't want to spread technically about it now. It has already been tailor-made today that workers cannot simply be exchanged. The complexity of the labour market is too great, so it does not work, and the random close-up of 264,000 unemployed and 290 000 open jobs does not say anything – all of this has already been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! But just remember that we demanded this 8 plus 1 per cent in the opinion that we had decided a reasonable limit by 8 plus 1 per cent. And if we find today that, with this estimate or with this assumption, 8 plus 1 percent are appropriate and necessary, then we are far from entitled to say this without taking into account the legitimate interest of those concerned: And now we're starting with 3 percent, and what impact this has on those people we've called, that's us. – This is not an employment policy that I would call proper – to quote a favorite word from my colleague Haider. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mr. Feurstein! If you say with a certain degree of pride that the Foreign Employment Act will not change, I must reply: You shouldn't be proud of that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] There are many provisions in the Foreign Employment Act, there are many provisions in this immigration package that we should change. I would like to remind you once again of my colleague Kier's appeal. It is an excuse to separate immigration and employment permit. This should be dealt with in one way – in the sense of all of us. And there are still many, many legitimate claims, as they also stand in this urgent request, such as the question of accommodation, the question of training places, the question of alienation and many other things more. All this, ladies and gentlemen, should be discussed and discussed. And if you say, Mr Feurstein, that the seasonal model is wage dumping in pure culture, and the Vorarlberg fate, which, so to speak, has caused a return of suddenly unemployed frontier workers, I must point out something, Mr Feurstein: [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Borders!]] These people have found a well-paid job for years and decades. What would have been the alternative? That they would have been unemployed from the outset in Vorarlberg? – That’s not an alternative! It's not that easy. I admit that the seasonal model also belongs to debated and that we should discuss which model – and also with what improvements to the Swiss model – we should introduce. But from the outset every new approach, even if it comes from the FPÖ, a priority to cancel off and say: This is wage dumping, we don't talk about it!, that's too easy, that's too much black-and-white, and we shouldn't allow that either. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I come back to you, Dr. Bauer: They don't make it easy for us. [[Calls:Diplomskaufmann]] Yes, Mr. Diplomkaufmann. This is a terrible title, I also have it, so I agree with this remark. Mr Bauer! You don't make it easy for me. If you were to show a little more credibility in your urgent requests, it would also be easier for us as a co-opposition party to condemn and persecute the failure and shortcomings of this government with you. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But it is really unpleasant for an opposition party to have to participate in your Eertanz! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11637	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11658	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the most part, I can agree with the opinion of my previous speaker, Mr Haselsteiner. I also very much liked Mr Feurstein's speech, although I do not agree with him otherwise on many issues. I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that I think it is completely legitimate and is entitled to make urgent requests. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You don't have to!]] I will always defend this right. I have no objection either to making a question on employment, employment prospects, about migration. But I have a lot against it – and that has already been said by my previous speakers – that you are directly linked to the problem of employment or unemployment. The fact that you add to each other that, in figures, you are contrasting with the employment of foreigners in unemployment is incredible! Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I'd like to tell you: The last one who sent this and made it demagogic was the Reichspropaganda minister Goebbels. He has pre-existed with the Jews what he meant by the mutual offset of employment and displeasing population groups, and how one can solve the employment situation if one eliminates them or sends them away or otherwise takes them out of the country. [[Abg. Rossmann: You are not serious to take!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] They are now doing this with foreigners in the same way. This "equity" is not only wrong, it is also evil and demagogic. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] She's absolutely demagogical! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to deal with these demands from you in terms of content. What are you doing? – They call for a stop to immigration. That's the first demand from you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Take this seriously. Take this seriously, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: Stop the migration. – But what about, Mr colleague, if not only we stop immigration, but also the Federal Republic of Germany and Switzerland and all other "foreign countries" to stop immigration? What about our Austrian employees who are now working abroad? Some hundreds of thousands of Austrians are working abroad, and it is now clear that in certain regions, such as Vorarlberg, the slight migration of these Austrians from Germany and Switzerland is increasing employment problems. So if your demand is to be taken seriously, if you really take it seriously for all countries, if you really want the "pull from abroad" to apply to everyone, I say to you: The consequence will be that the problems on the Austrian labour market – whether our foreign workers are being sent back to Turkey or to Yugoslavia – will seriously change, because of course we would have 200 000, 300 000 or 400 000 Austrians back in Austria because they are returning from abroad. Or should that not apply to them? Should this apply only to our foreign employees in Austria? Is this not true of the Austrians who work as foreign workers in other countries? Do you have any other ideas? – So it's not right and it's stupid if you put this up against each other. [[Abg. Rossmann: Do you currently obtain a work permit in America, Switzerland or Australia?]] It is also malignant and demagogical. I would like to say one more thing: Nor does the equation occur if you look at the real situation in certain districts. I was in the district of Oberwart yesterday, visiting a farm and asking: How many foreigners are employed in this company? – It is the largest farm in Burgenland, 1 200 employees work there. On this question I was looked at as if I was coming from another planet. There is no foreigner on this farm. And the district of Oberwart is the one with the greatest increase in unemployment in the Burgenland. So it is not the foreigners who are responsible for the situation, for example, in the district of Oberwart. You just can't say that! There is already a great deal of ignorance in coming to the conclusion that foreigners are to blame. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] There were 1,844 unemployed in the Oberwart district in April 1996. This is an increase of 35 percent compared to the previous month. A total of foreigners – not only unemployed foreigners – with employment permit or exemption permit were present in the district of Oberwart 736 in April 1996. Are these responsible for the 1,844 unemployed? Are they responsible? Do you want to blame the 700 foreigners in the district of Oberwart for the explosion of unemployment to 1,844? Do you really want to make her responsible for it? – Although the number of foreigners decreased by 5 percent compared to the previous year, unemployment in the Oberwart district increased by 35 percent. But that doesn't matter to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. You can ignore that calmly. Second freedom of movement – it is also a requirement for government and already realized; you can cut it off –: the removal of family allowances for children abroad. What's that supposed to mean? What can you accomplish with it? – I just want to say: There is a study by Gudrun Biffl, who analysed the very well "To the branch of foreigners in Austria", published in November 1995. [[The speaker holds a Wifo study in the height]] Even before our Structural Adjustment Act, Ms Biffl noted that a change in the financial services for children abroad – for example, a reduction in child support – would result in an increased migration of children to Austria. That's your demand, and that's the consequence of it. Remember the consequences when you ask for something? - No, you don't think about it. You don't care. They even expect the situation to rise. They are, in a way, living by this increase in the situation. But they blame the government for actually bringing this situation about if, for example, it removes the family allowance, as it has done now. So if the move becomes necessary because the children are unscrupulous abroad, you are accusing this government. If the government is now relying on the concept of moving in, then you are making it a charge, although the government has only fulfilled your demand! That is the problem of the government, but at the same time also your evil and demagogic policy. Third freedom of movement: They demand the seasonal model. I would like to say to you, Mr Haselsteiner, that you have problems in rejecting the seasonal model. I think so. It was also colleagues from the Liberal Group who were still with the liberals at the time and who, together with them, worked out this model of the season. Mr Haselsteiner! As much as you are right in the other points, with regard to the seasonal model I think you're completely wrong! The seasonal model is nothing but the absolutely brutal and intensified variant of our alien employment law. The Foreign Employment Act makes foreigners in our country a lawless person. It divides them into different classes. But through the seasonal model, we would create a new class of even more rightless people. This is not a model for the future. With this kind of employment one cannot win. This kind of employment cannot achieve what must be an integral and direct part of every foreign employment policy and any integration policy, and should be – which this government does not implement – of placing foreigners in the same rights as nationals; in the same rights when they come here and take up their activity here; in the same rights not only in terms of their material situation, but also, of course, in their political situation. If they work here, they also have the right to vote here. Of course, this must be granted to them. And that is what the government unites with these gentlemen and ladies from the "F" because they still refuse both these rights in essential respects so far. The seasonal model is the increase in the foreign employment concept with three, four, five, six different levels of foreigners. I don't need to tell you, Mr. Hazelsteiner. They know what groups there are, those with employment permits, those with a license of exemption and so on. But then we still have the differentiations within these groups. Then we have the problem that the residence permit will, so to speak, be added as an additional obstacle so that we can be taken into employment at all. – These are the problems of foreign employees in our labour market. And if, therefore, the liberals represent the seasonal model, this old seasonal model here in a debate in which they are working on a limitation of foreign employment, then the demagogy is pure! [[The speaker shall hold up a statement]] For in this model of the season here, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you want to allow nothing but the unlimited addition of foreign workers outside of any quota, provided that they are seasonal. Then so many can come in as much as they want! - That's your concept. Do not shake your head, rather read your own requests if you are able to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Of course, that's your concept. You must take your own requests and demands at least a little more seriously. I'll do this with your demands. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: But you don't understand it!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You can read it, but you don't understand it!]] The fourth claim: Prohibition of admission. This is a popular demand of the Freeman, even now in the beginning of the Vienna election campaign. The reality – and that has already been said – is that: There is de facto no move, for reasons of employment. This is the subject of your inquiry! There is no increase on grounds of employment. Between July 1993 and June 1994, we had an increase due to the employment of 7,800 people. I repeat: 7,800 people between 1993 and 1994. Between 1994 and 1995 only 500 people came to Austria for the same period of employment. All the others came to Austria for the reason of the family merger. In 1994 we still had 3,000 border workers. This figure has been halved in 1995. – You don't care, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. You ignore reality in this context. You must declare: Accept the family move – you say that sometimes, but usually you ignore it or refuse to answer it – or you want to go the clear way that you have been refusing people who have been busy in Austria for many years to make their family live. Explain to this, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I also believe that, in contrast to what has now been demanded by the Gastwirtschaft, Hotel in the Federal Chamber of Commerce, it is not necessary to bring new workers into Austria for reasons of employment, to an unlimited extent, just as the Gastbewerbe section would like to have the most. Based on calculations, Mrs Biffl says in her report, there is no need for additional workers from abroad, except those with key qualifications. But Mrs Biffl says something – and this is important, and this should lead you to mind, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Party of European Socialists – namely: "The need for the independent coverage of the financial support from foreigners (through the right of residence) forces them to accept even very low-paid activities only in order to obtain an extension of the residence permit." We have thus reached the key problem of the employment of foreigners, namely that the foreigners are, by means of the Knute of the Foreign Employment Act, forced by the Knute of the Residence Act to accept, in fact, any employment, be it still so cheap and it is still so bad. [[Abg. Rossmann: We have a collective agreement!]] That's where you can laugh, Mr. Bauer? It does not concern it, you do not have to work by 7 000 S or by 5 000 S. But many of those who are fighting for their right of residence in Austria have to do so – because they have to assert their self-support. I hope I do not need to tell you, Mr Bauer, that foreign workers still deserve much less than domestic workers. The reasons for this are in the Foreign Employment Act and the Residence Act – and in your policy, which you represented together with the government. If Mr Haider goes out of here and says that we can no longer afford certain things, such as family integration, because then there would be a number of family members who would claim benefits by way of a fee, then I must stop him from saying that the benefits that foreigners are paying into social security are still greater than what they receive from these insurance companies. For example, unemployment insurance: From 1974 to 1990 a surplus of 7 billion Schilling was achieved in unemployment insurance under the heading of foreign employees. What is necessary is therefore the following – and this has already been said here –: the same right of residence and employment for all foreign employees. Foreign workers have the same political rights as domestic workers. They are to be elected to the Chambers and the Works Council and are also to be given the right to vote passively. That would be the minimum requirement under which we would then be prepared to discuss all further consequences with you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11834	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11856	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the call for discussion by Mr Oellinger is not sufficient, because we liberals will certainly oppose the fact that foreigners may even be given special status in Austria and may be better off than their nationals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This debate and even the security debate have shown that, with health and beauty alone, crime and unemployment in Austria cannot be overcome. It is incredible how the Minister of the Interior has simply negated the UN report here today, according to which Vienna has now become the centre of eastern crime. This minister simply negates that organized crime – especially in the area of drug trafficking, trafficking in girls and prostitution, but also in the field of car sliding – has increased enormously. But instead of doing something about it, he accuses us of the panic and tries to impoverish the problem in so far as he mentions only those areas here and refers to those areas in which there has been a decline in criminal statistics. Just after the same knitting pattern, this debate is currently taking place: There we are accused of xenophobicity, vote in relation to the elections in Vienna and populism, because it is simply ignored that Austria has now become a country of immigration through the back door. On the other hand, we liberals have always resisted, and we will continue to oppose it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One simply does not want to admit that foreign policy has failed in recent years and that there are now about a million foreigners in Austria – illegals and legals. One does not want to realize that the fears of the Austrians are constantly increasing and people are worried about their job, their quality of life and their safety. Mr Oellinger! They have been one of the operators to blame for having such a situation today that people in some districts cannot live safely in this country. [[Abg. Oillinger: I live in one of these districts too!]] The concerns and fears of these people cannot simply be overcome by the fact that they are being brought here and, as the Minister of the Interior has done today, it is not right that a new wall should be built and a fortress built in Europe after the fall of the Iron Curtain. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the address of both government parties: It is not right for you to ignore the concerns and needs of the Austrians and to allow for additional immigration. Then: All these people need apartments and jobs, they need schools and kindergartens, and these are currently not sufficiently available. Ladies and gentlemen! Many people do not understand why this government allows a new migration to some 230 000 unemployed Austrians and to some 36 000 foreign unemployed. This oversupply of foreign workers leads to wage and social dumping. This is particularly the case in the construction industry, as we have already heard here today. Not only in Wiener Neustadt, but also at companies in Vienna, many construction workers became the separation allowance, the large separation, or were removed premiums for chords, additional work and additional performance, so that income losses from 5,000 to 6,000 S per month and per family or per worker are recorded. Mr Haselsteiner! It is not our urgent request that these charges be taken away. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You have no idea! Otherwise, you would go to the compensation fund!]] Mr Haselsteiner! I guess I have an idea. With me, affected construction workers have been employed in your company... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Still better with me than with Maculan, you deer!]] It may be. But you took away thousands of schillings a month. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You have no idea of competition!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we need in order to secure social peace and also the economic location of Austria is more jobs for the currently unemployed fellow citizens and not an unhindered immigration, which further aggravates this situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are sectors where seasonally additional workers are needed, such as agriculture or tourism. That is where we call for the introduction of a model model for the season according to the Swiss model, as I believe it is. It will be easy to allow a temporary service relationship unbureaucratically. In Bavaria too, ladies and gentlemen, there is now the possibility of recruiting workers in agriculture for up to 50 days quickly and unbureaucratically, with only the accident insurance contributions to be paid. The contributions to health and pension insurance are completely absent. As a result, Bavarian fruit and vegetable farmers, the cucumberly producers, or anyone – agriculture with the harvest workers – receive an enormous economic advantage to our farmers, and they are therefore internationally competitive. The current system in Austria, on the other hand, is criminalising our labour and employment-intensive industries. In tourism, in gastronomy, the company concerned, if it does not receive a legal workforce, is sometimes faced with the situation of either employment illegally employed or being locked up. The situation in agriculture is similar. If the vegetables or grapes had to be harvested, effective regulations would be essential. It should be for foreign workers, if there is no domestic, to have the opportunity to earn money with his work to build up an existence in their own country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are now no longer alone with this demand for the seasonal model. The President of the Chamber of Agriculture of Burgenland also advocates flexible and cost-effective employment of foreigners in agriculture. He said: The short-term employment of foreigners should be financed for agriculture. In this context, Hautzinger advocated minimizing the costs. The compulsory contributions to health and pension insurance should not be paid. With a flat-rate amount per day for administration, accident insurance and wage tax, it should be possible to purchase a quota up to 50 days. Ladies and gentlemen! These are demands that go far beyond the demands of the liberals, far beyond the seasonal model of the liberals. However, Members of this House are also in favour of the introduction of a seasonal model, similar to the Swiss model, in some cases openly or partially behind. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, the voting behaviour of the ÖVP will be particularly interesting, which is quite different from that of the farmers, especially the vegetable farmers and the wine farmers, when it is finally acting here in this House. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP: Stand by your promises and agree to this request!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12016	The motion for a resolution just read is sufficiently supported. It shall be included in the negotiations. Mrs Verena Dunst is now on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12043	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As a result of the opening up of Eastern Europe and the reunification of Germany, the proportion of immigrants in Austria increased, and it is not necessary to deny that, as a result of this development, there have naturally been problems which must now be solved. One of these problems is, for example, organized crime; this problem has already been discussed today. But the safety report from the morning gives me the hope – yes, I am sure of that – that we will also deal with these problems, that we will be able to deal with these problems. Some people in this house, however, use the above-mentioned development as an opportunity to put themselves politically in the scene, which we already know anyway. You need such a thing as a right of existence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Just because I promise, you don't have to upset me. That was just a joke. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Recently we heard the threat from the mouth of the chairman of the Freedom Party to organize a popular desire number two under the title "Austria first". Among other things, immigration to Austria should be linked to the unemployment rate. I conclude that you assume that there is a direct link between the number of foreigners in Austria and the level of unemployment. At least that seems to be the case after your urgent request today. That this is not right, Mr Oellinger, has shown you several speakers. I too would like to go a little further. But the honesty in politics, which I and many others sometimes miss with you, is missing once again. This is so typical: You want to get back on your bill. But that this is just a pure hetze, we don't need to talk about it at all. But I also wonder who assures you that your thought – we know what you are saying – is: If the foreigners disappear, we will suddenly have many jobs! There is no self-dynamism in this country, and some people may think that all foreign people who are in our country, who are in the country, are potential immigrants. I hope you are aware of this responsibility. These key forces have been discussed many times today. In general, there is absolutely no direct link between the employment of foreigners and the unemployment rate. Mr Oellinger, I would like to congratulate you on your comments. – You know that, but you just need a right of existence. What can be seen, however, is the different wage levels between the two groups – and this has been mentioned earlier –: In most sectors, wage levels are significantly lower for foreigners than for nationals. Now I can imagine what you're going to say: You will say: That is why foreigners do not find work because foreigners are cheaper – which is not at all true. I'll be happy to explain this to you. In this context, I understand that you have already called for foreigners not to participate in the social benefits in Austria. The fact that this would again have the side effect of reducing the additional wage costs even lower and thus making foreign power even more attractive does not seem to you to consider. That certainly can't be a solution. The lower wage level certainly also has other reasons. It is certainly due to the activities carried out. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is free to invent what you claim!]] I'm listening to you too. Believe me, you're more often squeezing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 1 : 0 for Dunst!]] I didn't tell you how polite you are. Maybe we'll come to a better conversation culture in this way. I was last talking about the activity that foreign forces are carrying out with us. These are mainly auxiliary and learning activities, cleaning work – Dkfm. It has already been pointed out stupidly today – that is, most of the services that are difficult for domestics to do. That is why we need foreigners, of course. They are even demanding a reduction in the quota to zero. I congratulate you on this, because I am happy to hear that from your liberal entrepreneurs, they will be happy with your way of doing so. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Is your world really so small, or are you just doing that?]] Now I speak, if you want, you can make a reply. I would like to invite you to this, but now I want to talk. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Is she really that small?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I come to speak to Mr Bauer, and I am going to take this up for the end. I'm looking forward to it now. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Then I stay!]] I'm really glad. Back to the subject. We need the key forces – you know that very well – and that's why you can't say: Now let's cut the quota! It is precisely the reduction in this quota, the quota that is required by entrepreneurs who require the economy which you, too, demand in other applications, would put a high risk of resettlement of farms. – So that can't be the solution either. I would like to focus briefly on your proposal concerning seasonal eggs. There are suggestions from you in which you think that is the nonplusultra. I've been wondering today about the following situation: Mr. Achs is above, Mr. Haider – "College", I take it back immediately – the Dr. Haider talks about his "tolles" seasonal model here, sees his colleague Achs and screams: [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: They wanted to come to a conversation culture!]] Well, Mr. Achs, not with you at the lake corner, what do you want with your cucumbers? – I feel that as a cowardice. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Who is a hater who does not call a parliamentary colleague "college"? - Who's the hater, the hetzer? Who?]] Next week your Mr. Dr. Haider in Burgenland will be supporting the country election campaign. He's in Gols, I read on a poster, and in Oggau. And I wish that your Mr. Dr. Haider would say there what he said here today, namely that the sea-winkers do not need cucumbers and no one who helps them to take down the vines. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He didn't say that! You're talking about better knowledge! You don't listen!]] The stories are constantly warmed up. But I have to tell you honestly: All of this doesn't make me so worried at all. Do you know what the problem is for me? – Your question at the point where you are dealing with Bosnian refugees. It is absolutely impossible for me to understand that people who really don't – we all know here – have come into a precarious situation through their own guilt, for you to be able to beat political capital out of it. That is absolutely incomprehensible to me! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What? What is required? What is claimed?]] What do you want? – They demand – we have already heard this –: Get out with everyone, and then everything will get better! But that these people can't go back, you know, too. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who demanded this?]] It is absolutely impossible to understand that these people and their families are being abused for this kind of policy, namely to try to insure and frighten people in that country. That's typical for you again. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You should display a minimum level of seriality! As good as you can! It won't be much, but it'll be a little bit!]] We currently have 16 000 people in Austria concerning the Bosnian refugees. Among these 16,000 are very old and very many young people. This means that of these 16,000, only a few will be included in the work process. So they certainly don't take the job away from anyone. And if it is possible – know that You're quite right – these Bosnians are going back. I asked in the ministry today, and I was told that 100 Bosnians per week go back. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Did you hear how many want to go back? – 25 percent of those who have come!]] You're scared again. Have had before You said you don't want to do anything, now you say: Only 25 percent go back. So I really don't understand you now! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You just said they all want to go back! Now we've just heard, that's not true! It's just about correcting that!]] Thank you for correcting me. I'm also correcting you: You said earlier: We don't do anything, we want to leave the Bosnians alone! Now you complain that only 25 percent are going down. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I didn't complain, I found it! I'll find it!]] - Wait a minute. They can't be so inhuman and send these people back, although their existence is not secured there – so many people will you be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is typical: This request shows the cheap polemics again. However, it is better to take effective steps to finally become lords of the problems that exist in our country and which no one is denying. An example... thank you, Emmerich. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Who prevents you?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] One example is the situation in the construction industry. This has already improved through government initiatives – you know that too. With regard to foreign employment, the liberals themselves have some experience to show. I do not want to fall back now by holding Mr Mentil up for you, but I have also wondered today about the following: It turns out, Mr Haider, and I have written it: You should send the guest worker back as he came, namely as a guest. Two sentences later he said: Young people must have the chance to find work. I hope that Dr. Haider has also sent back his help, which he has been working on. I have selected a few articles for this – there are a lot of articles – and quote for example the "standard" of 17th century. 12. 1992: Jörg and Claudia Haider. The FPÖ-Obmann wanted to renominate himself with his heart for refugees, but now he unfortunately gets political difficulties with his Bosnian host workers. ==References====External links== 12. 1992 provides the proof: One of those Bosniers who lived at the FPÖ chief had neither registration nor work permit. – Hopefully, Dr. Haider says that to the young people who are looking for work. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Dkfm. I would like to say something about Bauer, who is now awfully evil, since I said earlier that I would like to take up something for you for the end; on this example I would like to show you the double morale. There is a large farmer whom I personally know and who is known in the area as a great freeman – no problem. The problem is somewhere else. I know for myself that he has problems with a Bosnian refugee who is supposed to work for him and also with a Romanian guest worker. He won't get a permit. Some time later I met the Lord again – and do you know what he tells me? – He introduces to me the Lord of whom I know that he is Romanian and works with him, but without permission, and says: Ladies and gentlemen, may I introduce this to you as the new hunter. I didn't know, I was suffering from memory wounds or he was wrong. I then thought a little bit about it and came to the following conclusion: There is only one explanation that he needs the hunting guest now: In the day, the hunter works in the stable, and in the evening he goes on the pirch. [[Abg. Aumayr: Between the hunter and the hunter is a big difference!]] But I was wondering. Then why does he actually have to work a day? – Do you know why? He works the day because he has to break the field so that he can hunt better in the evening as a hunter. - That's how your morality looks! In reality, he is not a hunter at all, but he works illegally with him and is not registered. But that's normal with the liberals, as I said, anyway. I think there is no longer any point in saying on this subject, and I also believe that you are aware of your way of doing so. I'm convinced. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: I would be careful to make submissions that do not vote!]] How sensitive you are to attacks, I know, but you're not squeaky either when it comes to attacks against us. – Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12399	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12420	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to take the opportunity to make a correction here. Mr Salzl has tabled the request concerning the introduction of a seasonal egg. Our clubman Khol has with Minister This request is already submitted to a third party in the context of the Law on Foreign Affairs, and this application is under review and will be adopted before the summer. It clearly includes residence and work permits for 5 400 seasonal eggs for the duration of six months, with full insurance. So: Your application is a request, but if you think it is serious, at least you should submit an initiative proposal, and if you do not want to do so, you could agree to the Law on Foreign Law. It should also be in your intention if I understand you correctly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I hope I understood you correctly and you mean it seriously, but then I don't understand that you, for example, in your request – incorporated in the special session of 14. 5. – in writing, demand a reduction in the maximum employment permits for foreign workers, especially for frontier workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] You're demanding a reduction! Mrs. Aumayr! I can also say that you are sympathetic to me, I have nothing against you, but you have to stop me from your cat and mouse policy. They're wasting our time here. In addition, you can see how urgent your emergency really is when you count people with you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Create work, strengthen the economy, secure the future [[Abg. Böhacker: These are just keywords! Do it!]] There's a good basis for talking to the Minister, but we can't just do something like that. That would ultimately fall on the head of the government, but you would laugh at the opposition. We will not be abused for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's to be read, but I don't read this to you, we don't have that much time. Mr. Salzl, I'll give it to you for reading. My reigns! We know very well, and you have to acknowledge this very honestly – Mr Minister, that is also your address –: Farming is manual work, more and more ecology and biology, more and more effort, but less and less work – the unemployed there and the need for work. It is absolutely necessary and important that, when people create work in this country, however, we have no opportunity to obtain workers, so that these people can attract workers from the neighbouring border regions, simplified, unbureaucratic – so-called border workers, as stated in the law. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Medical campaign!]] Unfortunately, God – and that must be said – is not a truly comprehensive regulation in this regard. Many farmers urgently need labour. Why urgently? – There are always disadvantages in agriculture, due to the climate, by the weather, there can be unforeseen damage, such as snowbreak. After the long winter there is a lot to do for the few farmers, who are either full-time or secondary-employees. They must and do not want to do so, but they cannot, because nature simply gives the tempo and these people are forced to ask for auxiliary workers, who we have in Austria, but which cannot be used for many reasons. They are not necessary in an economy that is ready to beat, in which it is fought, which is good, in which it is worked with these people, but where the working hours depend on the influences of nature and the weather and one simply cannot act so flexibly. [[Abg. Aumayr: Ready to hit?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You can need foreigners!]] Yeah, why? . We are currently discussing the flexibility of working time, not only in agriculture, but especially in the areas of the eastern border. In this rather small-structured agriculture, it is a concern of all Austrian farmers that, as soon as they create work, they can also get people doing this work. These people are paid and assured whether this is now a Slovenian, a Hungarian or, for my sake, a Grazer, but the latter is unmedial. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why not?]] Don't ask me, I'm not a unemployed person, but maybe you'd like to look at this situation more closely. Then you'll know why. It's about hours, it's about a few days – and when it rains, they have to go home again. Do you think that can be offered by an Austrian? He doesn't need that. [[Abg. Böhacker: Now we're at the point!]] Very right, but we still have to see the whole thing. These radical proposals and measures there and there are not necessarily targeted, because where do they lead? – They lead to radicalization. Their populism, once again taking foreigners as scapegoats, leads them back in the wrong direction. And the government can't give in to this, the government can't do that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is about more than just work, it is also about social matters, and it is about safety in particular. I would like to say that there can be nothing better in these border regions than a pulsating, active agriculture. This also serves to safeguard our national borders and, of course, to safeguard them. This agriculture, such as fruit, which is very time-consuming, which is only hours of work, is viable today, tomorrow and also in the future. It is not an advantage for us, but a disadvantage for the Eastern countries that people there are not socially protected and that they are not so well; therefore, they are very happy to pick strawberries. Like the cucumbers. All these diverse areas of Austrian agriculture must not be simply as flat-rated and treated with "curculbers", as Mr Haider did. I hereby allow thousands of Austrian farmers, on their behalf, to call Mr Haider, by this statement, abqualifier! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] These are diligent people who keep the economy together in this country, because they also have other ideals and are looking for their possibilities under the law. We politicians are responsible and asked to give these people who create work also the opportunity to secure their existence and thus also to open the doors with emphasis and understanding for the few jobs that are really needed. But these are not doors that you open, and then the crowds flow in. These are so-called border workers who come and go. Believe me, all these people who work in agriculture don't have it so thick and can't afford that the Slovenian or whoever's around the whole day or for several days and does nothing, but here's a question of performance. Through these frontier workers are performed, and then the worker can go home again because it cannot afford to pay people for whom there is no work anymore. This is not an abuse, but it is simply necessary to secure jobs in order to secure livelihoods, because otherwise we are endangering businesses and ultimately burdening us again. That can't make sense of our policy. I am confident that this request will also involve changes in the review. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] Dear Robert, you can say something about this in your contribution to the debate. [[Abg. Wenitsch: Hannes! Watch it! If a farmer is looking for a worker with us, he won't get one because the employment office doesn't give him any! But he needs someone to help him!]] The employment office already mediates, but people don't want and can't do it for various reasons. That is why we cannot qualify these employers and people who do this as "cucumbers". Is that kind of a thing? Is that your kind of responsibility? This is a cat and mouse policy, I must say. You can't act like that, that's just populism, that's irresponsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also a question of a border country policy, which must be taken into account, kept intact and responsible in agriculture as a result of the eastern borders. Despite the Schengen agreements and the external borders, there are, of course, people outside the border. Working with these people also means cooperating. However, this border policy also secures our economy in many areas, because export goods are primarily earned by money earned here – which is worth more than the dollar, for example – by the people who work with us, at least 50 percent in our shops and are taken to Slovenia. There are disadvantages in the border regions, but also benefits from certain flexibilizations and needs in the field of work. I am glad that we have a border region where something is going on. It is intention and responsibility enough if I can speak here today for these thousands of people. I am going to work for this, and we are going to be a little bit further, that is not a question. But this is not going from today to tomorrow, because these things have to be looked at with a long-term view and should also work in the long term. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] No, I wouldn't say that, if not. Please, I'll let you read it. But, please, don't do it like it was on the 14th. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative Don't make such kneeshots! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But then you must finally put it into practice!]] I'm not going to read this, because it's time to be precious and too bad. People want to work, and we have to see that we give to these people who have work and need workers, also some. We do not have this happy situation everywhere in Austria, it is almost a phenomenon, but that is the special status of agriculture, which one must once again understand in this House, here in plenary. This is simply not to compare with other situations, but agriculture has a special status and had to bear heavy loads in the past. Mrs Rossmann, I would like to invite you to observe what is happening in agriculture. We're glad we got these people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can believe me if you don't believe me. We are making a regulation here and will help these people, because that is our task. [[Abg. Madl: You are also chosen to do this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Three minutes he wanted to talk!]] What you're doing by the liberals, that's my cat and mouse policy, for which people in this country have no understanding at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12642	Mr Rosenstingl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Please begin with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12666	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Dunst has claimed that Mr Mentil is an expert on undeclared workers. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: She didn't say that!]] I'd like to make the right point. The Mentil company, as well as Mr Mentil, has never employed workers who have not been properly notified. The reports in this regard in "NEWS" are wrong, and "NEWS" lost the trial last week and has been sentenced to 80 000 s. - Stay serious, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12702	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12723	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Dunst, you have said that you are confident of the safety report on foreign crime which is under discussion today. However, I do not think you have read it at all, because it is clear – and it is quite clear – that there has been an increase of up to 46 percent in the case of foreign crime. One more thing, Mrs Dunst: They have difficulties in distinguishing between hunters and hunters. Check with a hunter, maybe he'll teach you. [[Abg. Thank you!]] Now to Mr Zweytick. Mr President, I should like to thank [[Abg. Zweytick talks to Abg. Wenitsch.]] He doesn't listen, Mr. Gurkerlbauer. Please, lend me at least one ear! ==References== In this House, the Liberals submitted a request for the regulation of seasonal and harvest workers in agriculture on March 1995, over a year ago. [[Abg. Zweytick is sitting on the square of the Abg. May. Stadler and discuss with Abg. Wenitsch.]] Mr Zweytick, you do not have to listen, but you are sitting in the wrong place! [[Abg. May. Kaufmann: That's where Dobermann sits!]] Mr. Zweytick, on 8 June. In March, this request was tabled and rejected by your entire group, including the local representatives, including you. This application was made on 8 June. March would have been exactly in line with the wishes of the vegetable and fruit farmers. Mr Zweytick, you have been inactive for over a year. [[Abg. Zweytick: Inactive?]] Yes! You haven't done anything to this day. Today you announce that you have become active, that you will seek an arrangement with the Minister for Social Affairs and will draw up a request. I'm really happy about it. And if he helps the cucumber farmers, the vegetable farmers – which is really also a concern of the Freedom Party – then we will of course give this request the consent. – Only: You could have done all this for a long time, for well over a year! [[Abg. Zweytick: You could have put in an initiative proposal!]] That's what we did. We have tabled the proposal twice, but you have rejected it. I can only tell you one thing, Mr. Zweytick: The problem of vegetable farmers and fruit farmers in Austria now hang up with the lack of harvest helpers, which is too simple. This is really too easy, because the problems of these farmers are probably at a much greater percentage... [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] You don't know what I want to say yet! [[Abg. Zweytick: Yes, I know what you want to say!]] Yeah, what am I gonna say? Let me talk to you. Just listen to me for a few minutes. The problems of vegetable farmers are mainly in one area, and they have a loss of income of up to 50 percent through EU accession. Up to 50 percent! And the potato farmers and the strawberry farmers you are talking about are still waiting today for the compensatory payments promised by you and your group. In fact, they have been removed without replacement. These are the problems. And now you're building up a side-by-side exhibition and turning off from the real problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Zweytick, standing at the speaker's desk.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Mr Zweytick, I really like to talk to you. But now I've been afraid of a bite, because you've come so close. There is another problem, Mr Zweytick: Since 1995, there have been EU customs concessions to the so-called reform states: Hungary, Poland, Yugoslavia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic. Do you know what products can be imported into Austria without limitation from these reform countries since 1995? – I read it to you and I can also tell you the customs numbers if you don't believe it. On the vegetable sector – listen You're up to me! –: Curken, Mr Zweytick, duty-free and unlimited from Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Czechoslovakia. Strawberries, Mr Zweytick, unlimited and duty-free exactly from these reform states. peas and other vegetables, Mr Colleague, duty-free and unlimited in quantity. This is the problem the Austrian vegetable farmers have! Another problem is how to double the Eferdinger Konservenfabrik, which is entirely media-friendly and supports the Eferdinger cucumber growers in the demand of seasonal workers or harvest workers. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And do you know where exactly this cucumber factory built its last establishment? [[Abg. Zweytick: Of course!]] You know where? [[Abg. Zweytick: In Eferding!]] In Hungary, Mr Zweytick! And that's the problem. The farmers are led by their own cooperatives behind the light, and then one speaks to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hums and the evil Dr. Haider, that there are no harvest workers. But with this hasty accession to the European Union, you have added 50 per cent income loss to farmers within a year, and you are not talking about it. Another thing: I have a leaflet that the Eferdinger vegetable farmers have distributed. It is written: We don't get domestic harvesters. The unemployed are not interested in working in agriculture. Now we have to consider: 50 000 unemployed foreigners and 250 000 unemployed people, thus 300,000 unemployed. And of these 300,000 unemployed, no one is willing to help farmers with the harvest to the fullest normal payment. Don't you think there's something wrong with the system? I can tell you what's wrong: 8,000 s unemployment benefit. Do you know how high the wage of a farm worker is? – 9 200 S! And there's the problem: If I get 8,000 s for nothing, I won't pick cucumbers or berries for three months. That is why there is not a single unemployed person in Austria who is willing to do so. We may need to consider, before we ask for a new move, what can be changed in terms of the rules on feasibility. That's where we have to go!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12893	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12915	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A foreign policy, the labour force potential of foreign workers and immigration can only be based on the respective labour market situation in the country in question. If, in the past, we have also needed a potential for foreign workers, it must now be based on the circumstances we find in Austria today. The immigration rate is increased from 16 500 foreigners to 18 000 foreigners per year, with students, pensioners, trainees and those who are private in Austria not included in this quota. However, this group is about 6,000 people, and due to the family merger, an additional 12,000 will be added per year, ladies and gentlemen, plus the key forces whose number is assumed to be 1 500. It must therefore be taken into account that there is a massive burden on Austrian taxpayers, the Austrian population, and that Austrian workers, as well as foreign workers employed in Austria, naturally fear their jobs. For we know the groups that are then pushed out of the labour market: older workers, foreign workers and women. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of Bosnian refugees is also unresolved, because of the 85 000 who have been found in Austria, 54 000 have a residence permit and do not want to, yes, cannot return to their home country. These must take a foothold on the Austrian labour market before we introduce new ones into Austria. Also the 51 000 Turkish employees are, according to the decision of the European Administrative Court of Justice of the 2nd century. On the other hand, there is a need to remove from the quota the 1963 EEC-Turkish Association Agreement, which states that, after four years of legal employment, Turks are entitled to stay in EU citizens. There are 40 000 of these 51 000 Turkish workers who have been resident in Austria for more than four years, and they also fall out of this quota. As regards family integration, ladies and gentlemen, there is a knowledge of the European Constitutional Court, in which it says: If it is possible to return to home, the family can also be brought together there – of course only where there are no war conditions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today it has already been said that foreigners pay more social security contributions than they get. However, these social benefits are also used by a large proportion of immigrants who are not workers, namely family members. The number of co-insurers increases immensely. More and more health services are being achieved, 20 billion schillings are spent per year on domestics and foreigners. This makes about 7 500 s per capita, and with 60 000 foreign relatives more in Austria, this would burden our cash registers with 500 million schilling per year. The Federal Government is not in any way opposed to increasing health insurance contributions, higher unemployment insurance contributions and self-retaining schemes are discussed. There is no willingness to reduce privileges in the social security institutions, the aggregation of social security institutions is not addressed. In view of the fact that 4.2 billion schillings currently have to be paid for the schooling of foreign children, 4.5 billion shillings are spent on foreign co-insurers, and that, on average, the tax package of each Austrian has an extra burden of 3 000 s, this will not be acceptable to the Austrian population. We currently have 200 000 people looking for housing in Austria, 220 000 missing kindergartens and 80 000 missing apprenticeships, ladies and gentlemen. There are 280 000 unemployed in Austria, 315,000 workers who earn less than 8,000 s a month, and 47,000 young unemployed. In Vienna alone, the offer on the apprenticeship market fell by 41 percent, Austria by 30 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the unemployment rate: In the "Kurier" of tomorrow, Mr Buchinger, the Board of Directors of the Labour Market Service, criticises the social partners that no agreement has yet been reached on building and tourism to limit seasonal unemployment. That's what it says: "It is a pity that the agreement has so far failed on small things. At the beginning of the negotiations, we declared that we would make funding available for the extension of the season, but we have not been involved in the negotiations," says Buchinger. The social partners are required here, they are sparse. Mr Social Minister, help you to find a solution in the near future. If it is claimed – and this has been said again today – that foreigners secure pensions, Austria needs immigration to preserve pensions, then it is simply wrong. According to the opinion of the population researcher Rainer Münz, immigration does not solve the social state problem because the rate of foreigners who receive a pension will increase from 4 percent to 18 percent in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore irresponsible to allow more foreigners to enter Austria at such times. I am therefore also submitting the following motion for a resolution by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Rossmann. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Employment for Austria must be a priority in the future. It would be irresponsible to allow more foreigners to enter Austria in times of economic stagnation, given the burden package and an increasing rate of unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13058	The motion for a resolution just tabled is sufficiently supported. It shall be included in the negotiations. The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13082	Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has really become clear to me in the last two hours: For you, Austria must preserve its reputation as a country of immigration. I must say that we have a different access to the liberals. We are the only group here who says: It must be limited until finally order is made in one's own country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Minister, allow me a few words from practice. A former socialist councillor of Graz came to a Bredouille by illegally employed foreigners and then had to pay a penalty in millions. I was the only one who asked him about the real background. The background was that he could not be employed for his farm, although enough persons had been reported as unemployed. – Point 1. Point 2 was that if he did not get a job service, he would have to reduce production. – This is a meat-processing industry, one must say, which makes millions of sales with the EU foreign country and depends on the labour force. It is your labour market policy that he receives the answer: Then you'll get rid of the production! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] This employer did the following: He wrote the people after the "consumer" argument, and he had all taken up as they were, no matter at any age. – Do you know what the result was? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That prevented the union!]] That's right! He could not get a single employee because it prevented the union. That's how reality and practice look! The trade union has invited workers to go to early retirement before they go to work there. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The labour market policy in Austria is not a labour market policy, but an unemployment management policy, Minister! And you're watching the whole thing. The practice is that: If, for example, I need labour, I know that the labour market service has now been reported in the area of ten unemployed, which will come to mind. – Do you know how many of the ten are coming? If it goes well, two will come, and they only want one stamp that they were there. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: And the fare!]] But I'm not playing with that. You can find out at the Labour Office in Graz, with which I am very grateful to God. But that's how it works in other farms. If you're lucky, you'll finally get to the right man at the right place after weeks or months. That's a fact. But there are also other practical cases, Mr Minister, especially from Styria. There has, for example, been a sentence for a slovene person because he has wrongly received unemployment benefit of 65 000 s. Now I'm wondering, How could that even be? That's what the judge asked him to do. He replied that a representative of the Labour Office had explained to him that this was supposedly correct and that he did not need a proper residence in Austria. As a result, the representative of the labour market service was asked, and he replied: But he can hardly get German! The least foreigners with us can find German, the official answered unspoiled. – That’s the reality! People are being enlightened in German, and you don't try to teach people the truth at all. A second case: A South Styrian postal officer gave a foreigner the opportunity to register with him, although he never lived there at all. And this is a case that happens a hundred and a thousand times a day, I would like to say: It is simply registered in the border area of a de facto residence in order to obtain the unemployed. These are the abuses, Mr Minister, which are also raising our budget. You don't know what to do anymore. You increase the contributions or not, and you bring the whole state into the Bredouille. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But that's by far not all. And one wonder me: The ÖVP has made a great request regarding action 8,000 of the labour market service and the "TATblatt" donation. Today you are suddenly completely silent, you do not want to insult the Minister. Mr Minister, you said in the reply that this is out of place, that is no longer in your field of competence. But the budget comes from you very well, and in all cases it comes from the Austrian citizen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Not even that's true!]] They do not want to see that there have been 3,000 unemployed in Austrian tourism this year alone in the high season. Make sure that these unemployed people come to work. If you look at them being communicated, then we don't need quotas or seasonal eggs, then that's all a coincidence, because then the people are where they need them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, Mr Minister, I would like to tell you one thing – and it is a great concern for me to tell you personally, and also Mr Hagenhofer, that: I always thought you were a really very serious politician and minister. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's him!]] But I have revised this view since your answer to the question. [[Abg. Grabner: It's good for him!]] The request refers to a timely notification of the quota for the gastronomy. I have just asked about time, and I have stressed that permission of the labour market service is clearly not possible before the timely notification and neither before the early employment. There were only questions about time, not after an exhaustion of the quota and not even after an increase in the quota. But what did you do? – You have completely turned the request over. They interpret everything possible in that. They wonder that the liberals demand a generous supply of the tourism industry with additional foreign workers and more such things. And Mr Hagenhofer probably did not read my question at all, but only the reply of the Minister. I can't blame her for interpreting it like that. I wouldn't have done it any different. And that's the unsavory: In a serious inquiry you interpret something else into it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Incredible!]] If this is to be the form of how to deal with the requests of the liberals in the future, I will tell you: We will certainly not let that happen, Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mares, you have to give him a copy, he may not have read it yet!]] But now I'm telling you something you might be interested in. You have once again stressed that employment policy in Austria is a top priority for you. I'll tell you what your party's priority looks like. You have a high party officer in your ranks, who always emphasizes the importance of job creation, that he will bring billions of money from the Federal Chancellor to Styria. It's a high-ranking Styrian official, because it's no less than our head of state, Schachner-Blazizek. Do you know what he did? After being unanimously decided in the Styrian Landtag, also with the votes of your party's national chief representative, that the convergence criteria should also apply with regard to the employment situation in Austria and that the Styrian state government calls on the Federal Government to act here, he had nothing better to do than to have the brochures – three catalogues – printed for the Styrian national exhibition in Slovenia to award this order to Slovenia. That is what the reality looks like, Minister, there is a great need for action for you. You should not distort our requests, that is to say to you once again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13241	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13262	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the subject that we are dealing with today because of the urgent request of the liberals, there are a number of long-lasting, counting duals and of reproach that are constantly being prepared but do not gain in truth by their constant repetition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] The Posch is back because he wants to learn something. He was invisible all the time, but one of the three or four Social Democrats, who are now here in plenary, is the Posch. When the Ofer speaks, the Posch is there and hangs on his lips, for he does not want to let himself be missed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Listen carefully so you can learn a little bit! We can discuss the Bible again if you want! I'm not that small. In his speech, Mr. Hums, in a single sentence, formulated the main contradiction throughout the matter. He said: I would like to draw your attention to this, ladies and gentlemen, we need foreigners! But, as we are now, we will also be extremely restrictive in foreign employment in the future! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the cardinal dual nature throughout the foreign matter in Austria! One lets people in in an ever-increasing number. We are so generous, we are so human! And what I heard today: We are praised for this by those who are much less generous. The model student behaviour is also sought again, and sometimes with success. We all want to have inside, but then let them work, we don't want to! For there is the union, the left utopists, who prefer to have the doors wide open and all inside, but if they are there and have to live of anything, should not be allowed to live by criminal acts, do not want to go on the line, and may not want to go begging and, if they want to work, if they come to work, the barriers go down, and whoever we generously allowed in, he must not work. We have all experienced this, and my immediate predecessor has clearly explained it accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! It's double-puzzled and double-duty. Either we don’t let the Leut’s in – well – or we let them in, but then we have to make sure that they are able to earn their living properly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's no such thing as grinning! It is true that you simply cannot talk to split tongues! You can't say: We want people inside who deserve all of this, and different other shames also come to what I'm going to get closer to, but if one wants to work, then he can't do that. At best, he works black. It is not really fully involved in the creation of value. If it were notified, it could be officially employed, taxes would be paid for making social security contributions, it would be for the general public, for the Community to do something about it. It's not like that! He's allowed to be there, he's not allowed to work! This is what the Minister has just said today. We need foreigners, but we are restrictive when it comes to the fact that they are actually allowed to join the labour process. There is the contradiction: Every second speaker who comes out says: We want more foreigners inside because we need them for the economy! At the same time, the speakers in each case swear: But we will not let them work anyway, and those who are there and are unemployed are not willing to do so at first. That means you need labour. There are suitable workers in sufficient numbers, partly for years within the Austrian borders, who may not work, but on the pretext that one needs labour, one leaves new ones in and promises in the same breath: We won't let them work either. It must be pointed out on every occasion that the dual nature of this argument must be brought to the attention of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then there are some standard smears about which you can only smile more if you go to the bottom of them. Here's the shame: We need foreigners for work that doesn't make an Austrian. – In addition to what lies in this formulation an immense superiority, a superiority that people from abroad represent and consider to be like slaves who consider themselves to be unpleasant works is also completely incorrect. Because for every work, and whether it is the greatest dirty work, Austrians find themselves in sufficient numbers if they are sufficiently honoured. If, of course, I do not have to pay proper tribute to the dirty work, because I have enough foreigners who are willing to do so at a lower wage, then I will save the Austrians. If I pay enough for things, I do not need any foreigners for these areas of activity. That's a shame you can't fall into, ladies and gentlemen. Then there is the problem: Some industries would have collapsed long ago if there were not foreign workers, and the health sector would be cited to support this. Ladies and gentlemen! It may be true that we need a few thousand nurses and similar staff in the hospitals, but I have not yet been able to explain why we need a million foreigners in our borders because we need a few thousand people in the medical field. Where is there the connection in the relationship? This is also a reproach, and this too must be exposed as such. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The dirty number three is the problem with pensions. If I do not see that it is the Austrian family policy of recent years and decades that has been crucial to our being in a situation where only the frail or really rich people can afford children that the pension pyramid is therefore threatening to collapse if we look away from the fact that a corrupt family policy has brought us where we are at present, then it is also a shame! Pepi, now you go, now I've met you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl is sending to leave the hall.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: No!]] Go, have a silky drink for my well-being. You're allowed to go out. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Are you one of the missing or rich?]] Yes, I'm a suspect, because I have three children. You're a rich man, you also have two or three. How many do you have? [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I have three!]] Three! You're a rich man. I'm a suspect. The next shame is the story with the pensions. Again and again you hear: The foreigners we're getting here have to pay our pensions. Then the statisticians make it clear that, in a few years, some 12 or 13 percent of foreigners will be there, but foreigners will be 18 percent of pensioners. In other words, foreigners present will be burdened even more by the strong pensioner's share of pension funds than is currently the case, and the pension structure will be even more confused. So here's a shame! Not only must one not believe him, one must call him a reproach and expose him on every occasion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The mutilation number four: The historic country of immigration. It is recommended to set up the Wiener Telefonbuch, where all possible, not exactly Germanic surnames appear. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Hums!]] What do you mean? [[Abg. May. Posch: Pavkovicz!]] I don't want to say hums or pawkovicz. He said "Hums," you said "Pawkowicz." I don't want to repeat one or the other, because this is, of course, a game with sunken cards. Because if at the time of the monarchy someone from Bohemia, from Moravia, Slovakia, from Hungary, from Transylvania, from Croatia, from Slovenia, wherever he went from this area, from Trentino, from Trieste, to Vienna, then he was in his own capital. He stayed in his own country, he went to his own capital. There is therefore no tradition of immigration from foreigners to Vienna, which can be proved in the telephone book, but at the time their own citizens went to the capital city of Vienna, to the capital and residence city; as if today one goes from the Pielachtal or from Styria to Vienna, that was then. There has been no problem of split or double loyalty. Own citizens in their own capital and residence! The history of tradition in this sector is also a disgrace that must be described and exposed as such. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it becomes more serious to deal with the present, which looks like we can also learn from official statistics, and that in 15 of the 23 districts of Vienna, there is already a clear majority of foreign students in compulsory schools, most clearly in Vienna-Margaret with 66 percent. Today, if I have foreign majority numbers among schoolchildren in 15 – in the richest – of the 23 districts, I can calculate how it will look in the population structure in one or two generations. Now you can say: The Ofner wants to see a typical Austrian city with its growing Austrian structure in one, two generations of Vienna. He's an alien enemy! Then I will answer: I am not an alien, but I do not want this to change so radically. Ladies and gentlemen! Vienna should remain an Austrian city, as we are used to, as our fathers and our grandfathers were used to! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because if today I have children of non-German native language, foreign children in absolute majority in the school classes of so many districts, then there is already a corresponding adjustment pressure, long ago no longer the Austrian towards the foreigners, but already the foreigner towards the Austrians. To a suburban lawyer, like I am in Ottakring one, people come with the most different concerns. There's a woman coming to me who says: What do you want me to do? My bub goes there and there to the folk school, third or fourth class already. The teacher strongly urged all children – he and, I think, two others are the only Austrians among the students – not to bring money to school, because if someone has money, it is already cut off from the others as protection money. It's said: We'll protect you. Give us the money you have, if not, you're all right! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not at all the pressure that foreign children exert on the Austrian children in public schools. [[Abg. Koppler: Go, stop! That's not true!]] Check with your people. I once had a discussion in the house with two school classes. It was a representative of the Social Democratic Party, of the Liberals, I think, the freshman, of the ÖVP was nobody there. I don't know who was with the greens anymore. The name of the SPÖ delegate was discreetly silent. He's not in this house anymore. He has overtaken me far to the right in the foreign question. I asked him: Listen, you're already a canvas! Why are you so radical in this regard? You're quite different in the plenary! – That’s what he said: What do you think, if I don't talk like that in my district, I'm away from the window! – This is the Social Democratic Party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In there they play the human beings and outside they catch up with reality! [[Abg. Koppler: Who was that?]] You're going to Linz! There the Kurds and the Turks shoot at each other. You have to see how that is! But if the social democratic colleague of you is discussing over there in local VIII, he is setting up the mask of the realist. In there he plays the humanist. In there he plays the separate guy. [[Abg. Koppler: Who was that? Names!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can't wish for that. [[Abg. Koppler: Then it's not true!]] He's one who's gone. He's advanced. He's not down, he's come up, Koppler. A defender who is 35 years in this business does not fall on such an old shame. You can startle your grandchildren, but not me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear friends! I wanted to point out these things. I can only say that with the Social Democrats, only everyone is This was prevented because they were not there. Now there are some, and they don't. That is, the discussion has regained a bit of brilliance, because I have shown two things: First of all, how doubling and doubling – at least by Willi Fuhrmann, but by others – the discussion in the foreign question is led, second, how the development, especially in the Federal Capital, represents itself, and how the Social Democrats behave outside their districts – brackets: behavior – if they do not want to be away from the window. [[Abg. May. Posch: He can't defend himself because he's not there!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13498	Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13519	Mr President. High house! Minister! It is not yet four weeks ago, and the paper on which the load package and the consequences of the load package have been written down is not even dry, as you think the Austrian population is already experiencing a new wave of stress through this integration package. It will certainly come – for many of the reasons you have heard today. But it was not discussed at all today. The representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ have probably already put the savings package in 1996/97, as they call it, ad acta and say: Now we are turning to new ideas and new burdens. It is really not a four weeks ago that Austrian families have been burdened immensely, and there is really the question here of whether in Austria anyone else can afford to have a family at all. You already leave – proposal – "drawing families" where it is almost impossible for the Austrians to have one or two children. The annual decline in birth speaks volumes, it is worrying. Minister! Mr Ofner has already done this: Then how do you intend to fulfill the generation contract later? Our population pyramid shows – if you look at it, and you will certainly have done so already, you will see – in some years an blatant cut. We know very well that, for example, in 2010, pensions are absolutely unsecured, although you are constantly dementing them. As far as the move is concerned, Switzerland was already a little smarter on this question. It looked at its population pyramid as early as 20, 25 years ago, when it was time to introduce measures here and to pursue a targeted immigration policy – not a chaotic, uncontrolled one, as Austria has used for years, but a targeted immigration policy aimed at taking into account the age, occupation or level of training of the immigrants and immigrants. As a result, Switzerland has no problems today, such as maintaining its social benefits, nor any problems of the way in which its pensions are not insured. It is already true in Austria that today a family father who wants to put so many children in the world as he wishes, in economic life – and indeed the economic operators among you know very well – would be accused of negligent Krida, for a very simple reason: because the financial effort per other member of the family for Austrians is immensely high and is no longer manageable, because families are not yet preferred and are not always favourable to tax, nor will there be any such changes in the foreseeable future – and because, for example, the parenting partner – most of these are women in Austria – because of the lack of jobs and, above all, because of the lack of childcare facilities, the financial situation in the families is not possible. We already have a lack of 220 000 childcare places, and this has been done in this load package, which was decided a month ago, to reduce kindergarten billions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] What do you say, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Silhavy: How is your attitude to kindergartens? I've heard other words from you.]] You didn't listen to me! There are already 220,000 childcare facilities in Austria for what you have planned. There is no way for women who want to work at all to accommodate their children hourly. That's what the mother of the day belongs to knowing. It's just you, of course, kindergartens. All of this is part of the childcare facilities, as I had to be explained by the Minister – that was still the Minister Hesoun, who said at the time, child care... I can't remember exactly now, but he used a completely different expression, which he then fought with the most. – That is also part of it, Mrs Colleague! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! They will say that this is actually the case of the Minister of Family, but I think that family policy is very far-reaching in the social field. There is no family policy without social policy, and the other way round is not possible. What will the situation look like after the planned family merger? They know that host families are well known to be very child - rich families, and that only four people follow up is rather unrealistic because they know that the average of host families is more likely to be located at five, six, or seven. So we need kindergartens, because it is likely that some of these children who come in to get to know the social environment will also want to visit kindergartens. The second is that they most likely need a place in school, even that is safe. Then we need more apprenticeships, then we also need more jobs. How you want to do this, even though there is already a finish everywhere, that's what I'm sluggish about! In the context of the savings package, they expected that the loss of family support for children living abroad will save the Austrian budget at multidigital millions. And now, Mr Minister, you agree with the proposal which, in turn, enables these children to immigrate to Austria and here to receive the family allowance at the same level that you do not want to pay. It's incomprehensible to me! This will probably be reflected in the following budgets. On the one hand, you promise discharge, and on the other hand you defend the family estate, which will entail financial burdens in the social field, a family estate, which is not defined anywhere. There is no such thing in any country in the world, in no country in the world, which cannot afford to take in even more people who must be provided in the social field. There is really only in Austria! According to the European Commission for Human Rights, family integration is only mandatory if, for political, religious or other serious reasons, it is impossible for the family owner to visit his family. Only in these cases will the family be given the opportunity to immigrate into the host country for humanitarian reasons – but only for these reasons, not because of a quota arrangement that allows around 20 000, 24 000 foreign citizens every year to find a new home in Austria, which we cannot afford to afford. Mr Minister, you have admitted in your question to Question No 20 on the financial impact of family integration that there are no calculations in this regard. I think that is, in turn, typical of the way in which this government works. They are not concerned about the financial implications of a proposal, and the Members are sitting here – or in part – and when it comes to voting, they are all standing up. This sometimes seems to me like a flock that follows the leitard without knowing where the way is going. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: (in the square of Abg. Dr. Haider clearly) The leittier is sitting in front!]] That's how I sometimes get inside here. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Your leittier is sitting in front!]] You hear arguments here, really good arguments, and then everything is not true. Then the vote will be taken with scavengers, the hand will be lifted, the next law will be passed, and there will be no thought of the consequences at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: How will the FPÖ vote, Mrs Madl?]] And if you feel the effects, what do you do? – Then there are reductions, revisions, for example to reduce family support – just listen! – or to reduce the time of leave. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: We already have a proposal!]] You're a woman, aren't you? We've seen what it was like: Two years we can't afford, so we'll cut it back to a year and a half! One introduces a self-retain on the student free ride, making one self-retains with the school books. All this is being revised after seeing that the financial side has overburdened us. First we decide to revise afterwards! Mr Minister or Mrs Colleague, what do you want to do with the families you brought in? Mrs Colleague, what do you want to do with the families if we can no longer afford to maintain these families? Will you send them back, Mrs. Colleague? Is that humanitarian? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: We have a proposal! But how do you vote?]] Is that the humanity you always care about? I think that's pretty much what you're doing. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Mrs. Colleague! You can't cut back people like you did on the karenz vacation. - Ah, you nod to that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] What are you nodding for? If I say people can't be cut back, and you nodd, then I have to assume you nod to my argument, you want to cut people back. No, that's not how it is! People can't be revised as you do with the laws constantly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't argue about it, Mrs. Colleague! Give her a speech! Be peaceful!]] Or do you want to shorten social benefits as you have already done? So you want to continue to burden the Austrian population on the basis of your ideas that you bring in here by continuing to cut down on the social sector. Or do you want to burden the economy even more by increasing the contributions? You laugh! Is that how it laughs? I don't think that's ridiculous. But I probably have another sense of responsibility, one that you will probably never have. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, we already know that!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In school alone It is already certain that the cost to foreign children is already 4.2 billion schilling, only compulsory schooling alone. What do you say? You know that? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Parnigoni and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Do you know? I asked you a question now. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Please, we're not in school!]] We're not in Question Time either, but if you're yelling down my words, then you have to refer to the words I'm using and not to anything that's going around in your head. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you married?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Headmaster.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: After this must be a life!]] The cost to foreign children in compulsory school alone is already 4.2 billion schilling annually! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Yeah, do you think that's gonna change now? This will be extended, Mrs Colleague. You know that very well, but you just want to deny it, for whatever reason. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am anxious to see what the consequences will be in the school sector if we find that we cannot afford to do so because the budgetary situation is so tense. But we're not worried about that yet, are we? This is what we think of tomorrow or the day after, or when it's ready. That's your motto, isn't it, Mrs. Colleague? This is, as we have seen in recent years, the government's motto. [[Abg. Silhavy: The quality of the free speech will always be "better"!]] I believe, Mr Minister, that you should consider the situation of the Austrian families and how you can eliminate the miscarriage in which they are located, about women who want to join the profession after the karenz period but who do not get a half day job and who have no opportunity to give their children to a kindergarten or to a mother-in-law. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: In an alien kindergarten?- Oh, my God!]] You should think about these women and about these families. But they should also consider the 42 000 Austrian young people who are currently unemployed, thoughts about how they can be included in the work process, and not about the quota you are saying that these are young people who are already here in the second generation who have been born here, who have gone to school and grew up here. By the way, this is a very wrong definition, because it is not the second generation that was born here, raised and entered school, but it is simply the first generation of these foreigners, who were born here, went to school and grew up. In order to do so, I do not think you need to worry as long as there are 42 000 Austrian young people who have never been working for a day at all! You should be worried about them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: What are you doing with the others?]] It can then be integrated if there is work for our young people, because then, I believe, acceptance in the population will also be a little better with regard to foreign citizens. I believe that the Austrian Government, with its unrestricted immigration policy, with which it has worked over the last 20 years, really has to do with the fact that it cannot be explained to any Austrian any more why foreigners are still drawing to us, although, first of all, there are already enough foreign unemployed, and secondly, there are still 300 000 or 250 000 or 270 000 – and for themselves that is too much – thousands of jobseekers. One cannot explain this anymore, and therefore, of course, anger is also great. Minister! I'm looking for you and I'm calling on you to stop this condition. Make sure that our Austrian unemployed people have a job again, then you can talk to us about a new immigration policy and a family union.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13820	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13841	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. In his speech, Dr. Ofner has wonderfully documented why we always have difficulties free people from the government parties: because they simply turn our words around because they do not take our words seriously and try not to realize them. My first request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that he take the arguments from us liberals seriously in today's urgent question, because they are not taken out of the air, but rather documented and should be implemented in legislation, among other things. You know very well, Minister of the State, that labour market services are certainly in need of reform under the rules on availability. You know that we have to prepare this in this House, because another move by foreign workers leads to a risk to jobs, to workers, to the people still in work here in Austria. You have to take note of this from our side and look at it in this way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unemployment for immigrants is pre-programmed. What will result from this? Wage dumping has already been mentioned. The process of eviction of domestic workers and the integrated foreigners will follow, and black work will continue to flourish. It is expected that crime will increase and illegal foreign employment will increase. Although arguments are repeatedly used that are also read in the newspapers – as in today's edition of the "Kurier" – that illegal foreign employment in different federal states is no longer increasing. However, there are still two federal states with a further increase, namely the Carinthia and Tyrol. This, in my view, is really a danger. Federal Minister! Today, you have answered the individual questions of the urgent request from us liberals a little – we say – loosely, and these answers were, in my opinion, very thin. I do not want to address the various points of the question now, but I can only tell you that in one point or another I would have expected you to make more strong statements for the benefit of the workers, the people in Austria and for the benefit of our economic location. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know very well that our unemployment table is actually a world champion table in terms of counterfeiting. I have already documented this in one of my speeches and therefore I do not want to go into it again in detail, but with this unemployment table, we are really world champions in falsification. Various unemployment groups are not included and therefore are not included. If that were the case, we also had the EU value. That must be stated in this House once. Mrs Reitsamer has said in her speech that we are the freedom of the people in this House who are pursuing an employment policy here. Well, thank God our Members are in this House, and they will also work accordingly for the benefit of the Austrian women. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The honourable Member has even said stupidly that the liberals argue with fear slogans through the area. And I really have to ask you: What fear slogans are there in here? When we talk about the problems of foreigners, of course we know that it was – with "we" I mean the economy in Austria – that these foreigners brought in. And we also regard them as human beings, only to support them accordingly, but not to bring them in again, because then we have no work and no more apartments for them. That should be our task. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The term "integration package" is for me, which I stand here as a Member, and certainly also for most of the Austrians a hoon. What will happen in truth? – The social problems will increase, Austria will continue to lose identity, it will become a melting pot in Europe. And that, Mr Social Minister, is not our task. Just as you have dealt with the criteria of the Foreign Employment Act today, it was as if you – I would say so – were going through the area with very tender feet, instead of just how it would have been right to stand firm and give us a corresponding answer. According to the information available – I do not want to mention too many figures – the exceedance of the federal highest numbers increased by 12 000 people at the end of March; this cannot be denied. The proportion of foreigners in employment was 273 985. But there are not the EEA foreigners, the 40 000 Turks and the refugees. As I said, I don't want to wait with more facts – that's what some others have done today – but one must be clear: Following the return of refugees to their home countries, Austria should take the view that the jobs or homes which are to be freed up are not to be re-allocated to new foreigners who are allowed to move. We can no longer afford to do so in the future. In the context of safeguarding the labour market, I would like to make two points: The number of foreign workers should not be further increased, nor should further immigration be authorised. This is damaging to Austria's economic location. It is not only about the jobs of the Austrians, who are at our heart, but also about the security of the people, ladies and gentlemen. There's no day when you don't read about Romanian bands, the Russian mafia in Austria and the drug dealers in the media. And where do they come from? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: These are not guest workers!]] If you look at the statistics, you can see that most of them come from the field of foreigners who are employed here in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You talked about Romanian bands, about the Russian mafia! That's not a guest worker!]] Mr Lukesch! If you talk to a Tyrolean army official or a criminal officer, you will find out exactly what the problem is with these officials. They are devoting their main work to these gangs. I'd just like to tell you that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But these are not guest workers!]] The urgent question now arises, of course, for me, so that I have to address a few questions to the Minister for the Interior and to Mr Klubobmann Khol: Is the risk to the jobs of the Austrians your political goal? Why open the borders even further? Why do you promote crime instead of fighting it? Why Protect You are not the Austrians and are giving up their safety instead? And why do you make Austria a melting pot in Europe? Why don't you learn from the problems that have actually made foreign policy necessary in France? Why don't you learn from it? All these questions must be addressed first and foremost to the Federal Minister, but also to Mr Klubobmann Khol. We will, of course, continue to discuss this on the basis of the proposal for integration. We liberals do not want to betray the workers, nor do we want to betray the foreign workers living in Austria, we do not want to betray the unemployed. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In the interests of the security of our country, ladies and gentlemen, Wake up from your dreams while it's still time! Serve the interest of Austria, serve only the interest of Austria, because you are obliged to do so! Therefore: Take, ladies and gentlemen, our statements, our suggestions and urgent request very seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13946	Mr Trenk is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13967	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has promised a lot, I alone lack faith. The exact opposite is the case. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak today, because the debate is already over four hours, not about numbers or percentages, but about reality, because I believe that the Federal Government has already forgotten reality. I am thinking of the statements made by the colleagues of the other political groups, of which the Freedom Party is always opposed to foreigners. I will prove to you the opposite, because I have documents on humanity and where xenophobia is really being appalled. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Imagine, for example, some factory where jobs are reduced. The Austrian is being dismantled, the foreign worker may continue to work. The Austrian takes his bag, goes home, passes the workshop and sees – he has a family, two, three children, a house –: The foreign worker may continue to work in this workshop, the local goes home. Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly do not support this policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that in these circumstances exactly what the coalition and the other political groups of the Free Party are always baffling. We liberals are certainly for war refugees. We also said that we should try to get the illegals out of Austria so that we can get more space for war refugees. That is what we stand for, and I believe that this is certainly not to the detriment of the Austrian population. However, I would like to point out a few things, ladies and gentlemen, which are very interesting in terms of job security. Where do we bring the people? We are all bringing them in, we are bringing in 24 000 foreigners a year to Austria, but no one in the Federal Government knows where we are, where their jobs are, how we can also provide them with apartments. I believe that if you retrieve foreigners, it would be the first condition for you to give them apartments. – The Freedom Party now stands a hundred percent on this statement. Take down the club glasses so you can see the reality! I would like to show you something that is really worth seeing. I think that we liberals are entitled to show that so that the Federal Government really takes a light, not even for Christmas on the Christian tree. I hope the light starts burning earlier. That there are more and more foreigners in Austria is also a heavy burden on health insurance companies; this fact is due to 400 million schilling of extra expenditure. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who says that?]] That's what we're saying, and that's what we're going to do. Listen to me, colleague. You are probably very little outside at the base, otherwise you would also know this number and know what is moving the population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out here a case that is really interesting, which illustrates how the social network is exploited in Austria. A foreign insured woman who is said to be his wife is going to hospital to have a gall operation or kidney surgery there. The hospital's taking this person in, and she's being operated on. – A nurse called me, told me that, and told me that I should really make it public; but I can't do that yet, because I can't call the name of that person for certain reasons. – This nurse comes to the hospital in the evening and suddenly finds a completely different person in the bed than that foreigner has indicated. That means: The 17th. ==References== Aunt has free in Austria – at the expense of taxpayers! – let operate! Ladies and gentlemen! Such maladministrations can and will certainly not tolerate us! We will do this, and we will also receive relevant documents in such cases. Even if the Social Democrats and the ÖVP support such things, we will certainly not support them! Then the question is: Where do we bring the foreigners? Our region, the industrial district under the Semmering district of Neunkirchen, is already a crisis region. Everyone knows. – I go to the mayors and ask them: Where do we bring them all? How do we give them apartments? And what happens? – Mayor of all political groups come to me and tell me straight and clear: We don't know that anymore! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP! Don't you have any contact with your mayors, who are responsible for it and who have to accept these foreigners? And now something's coming up: We in the region, for example, buy houses specifically from Turks at any price. They're setting up a GesmbH. For foreigners, there is nothing easier to create in Austria than a GesmbH or a business. The same takes four to six months for Austrians. One makes difficulties for one's own people, but a Turk buys a house where Kurden lives without any problem. You really have to listen to that! He buys a house where Kurden lives. This Turk then threw the Kurds out of the house and beat the parties spatal mature. People don't know where to turn. They'll come to the housing market. I am a city councillor and have around 476 foreign flat seekers in my area. But if I ask the mayors where to accommodate these people, you'll find: Nobody knows. But the great coalition is still bringing us 24 000 to Austria, although we do not even know where to accommodate them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the Federal Government is not just the 290. Fault, but also the 317. Makes a mistake. However, the Austrian population will certainly not tolerate this, and in the next elections there will certainly be a corresponding receipt. We liberals stand to our country. I believe, however, that the other political groups here in the House have long since been adopted by Austria. However, the Freedom Party repeatedly provides evidence that Austria still counts much for it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Foreign hostility, ladies and gentlemen, is not appalled by us. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] She's not being scared by us! However, xenophobicity creates you with your social institutions. These social institutions are no longer for us Austrians, but these social institutions are being exploited by foreigners until the last. They come here and know exactly by means of a corresponding letter, where you get something in Austria and where not. I'm just excited about how long this is going on with regard to the savings package. Most of those who come to us know exactly what they have to do. The Austrians themselves, on the other hand, have many problems when they go to office, for example, because they have to fill in 17 000 papers there. Certain foreigners, on the other hand, get what they want within minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can laugh as much as you want! You'll probably be too little at the base outside. They do not take the complaints of the population seriously. It is just as my previous speaker, Mr. Harald Ofner, said: You talk different out there than here in Parliament. – This two-bedness ridicules every description! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say the following: They always talk about humanity about the great coalition and say: We are human beings and have to be there for people. – I am also a human being, and I stand by it: Every person in the world has the right to have a roof over his head. But I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Government has forgotten a lot. In 1976, in the Kreisky era, at the time of the high economy in Austria, when we needed the foreigners to work, they came in, and two to three lived in 20 to 25m2 apartments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Let me speak, colleague. At the time, two to three persons lived in such apartments. Today, these apartments live in respectable "vogelhäusln", because as an apartment one can no longer call that – listen to me! –, 15 foreigners. But this is your meat, I know that. These apartments are wet and full of mold. But you don't look at that! The children who have to live in such apartments suffer severely. I have attestes I can show you if you want. But you don't care! Because your humanity is only that you say: We'll get her in. But if they're here, don't worry about these people anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I'm sure I'll take care of her. I believe that I am the only city councillor in Austria who has made an event for foreign residents, to whom I have not invited any Austrians at all. I have discussed with 270 foreigners in a large hall about housing and reality so that these people can also be accommodated. [[Abg. Koppler: Bravo!]] What's too much is too much! I said that to these people and I said it clearly – something like that has never been heard from SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear friends! Even the SPÖ mayor made eyes. He believed that perhaps two Russians would come to this event and then the matter would be done. – But there were 279 people, and they complained and said: The liberals take care of us. The other Members of the Federal Government, on the other hand, only want us to come to work here. Where we are to live and exist, however, they care little. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14083	Mrs Haller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14113	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! After the refreshing remarks made by my colleague Pepi Trenk, this urgent question to you, Mr Federal Minister, is now slowly, but surely to its end. You said in the introduction to your reply: It's not about bringing more foreigners in. - Agreed! They want to secure existing jobs. That's what we want! They have said that they will pursue restrictive immigration policies. - Agreed! Your Quasi-Government partner, Mr. Feurstein, said: We need active labour market policies in Austria. – I agree with that too. I do not agree, however, with statements made several times by speakers from ÖVP and SPÖ who accuse us of being free to fear only. – This is already a very dry "argument". It's not us who say that. For example, the Market Institute shows that the Austrians are afraid of their jobs. Literally! – 82 percent find it difficult to find a job. 69 percent fear a further increase in the unemployment rate for 1997, although we already have a high level. 71 per cent see the safeguarding of existing and priority jobs as one of the most important tasks of government. . I believe your assurances, Mr Federal Minister, and those of your government partner are quite a tribute to the already existing fears of the Austrians. The duration of unemployment has also almost tripled since 1980, in men at 16.8 weeks, in women at almost 20 weeks. . I mean, it is really high time we started to discuss the rules on feasibility. Unemployment rates are not only affected by general economic development: They also depend on whether the framework conditions are right. That too is to be questioned. It is also to be questioned whether the control effects in Austria are really the right ones. I must say to Mr Haselsteiner and Mrs. Do you really want to contradict when they say: There is no link between labour market policy and foreign policy. That's where I ask you: Why did we start bringing foreigners to the country many years ago? But certainly because we needed them on the labour market! The direct link is quite clear! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I would very much like you to believe that you want to make things better in future with regard to the control effects. But in this context, I would remind you of the January of this year: There we have called for a special meeting on employment policy. At the time, you promised us that you would try to reduce the additional wage costs. But now you hear only more about a "moderate increase" in health insurance contributions to get the deficit of health insurance funds. Moreover, we have been promised from the government side that a wave of founding will come to economic recovery. Where's this founding wave? Where are the promised incentives for unemployed people to make themselves independent? – This was also the case on 30 May. - Yes, this year's promised. In Austria – it is not often enough to point out – the number of self-employed is 6.3 percent, which is the lowest in all of Europe. It's got backgrounds! There you have to ask yourself: Were the control effects of Austrian politics really the right ones in recent years? In recent years, the number of self-employed has increased across Europe; in Austria, on the other hand, it has fallen. Therefore, this fact cannot have anything to do with general economic development. I have not heard anything about what the action plan looks like, what you want to integrate the currently almost 300 000 unemployed into the employment process. How do you also want to secure existing jobs? - We haven't heard of that either. The opposition must, however, be allowed to determine and encourage that it is at once high time to review the conditions for foreign employment policy. There are recently more foreigners who do not need a work permit, namely EU citizens. And it also affects the labour market and, of course, the unemployment rate. You have confirmed this today, Minister of State: Of 23 986 unemployed workers, 3 597 are unemployed. You told us. That's 15 percent, please! This figure is clearly above the Austrian average, far above that! The fact that Bosnian refugees also influence the labour market is also quite clear. If we encourage everything to make it easier for Bosnian refugees to return, perhaps to speed it up – there will be no more many who want to return, this is becoming more and more evident – then we must be accused by speakers from the government parties of helping these people return to their country of origin. We must also take a close look at the following, Minister of State: How will we be in the future with the knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the 2nd? May we really avoid what Turkish workers allow after four years, without having to stay in Austria without work permits? You found a "doll" formulation there: This realization "is not really relevant". - What is that supposed to mean? It would also interest me to see how this, if we really need to treat it as an EU citizen, will work with the disbursement of the family aid, which we wanted to reduce through the savings package. Last year, according to the family minister's information, reduced family allowances were paid for 24 965 Turkish children. Is it possible for these to be entitled to the full family allowance in the future as a result of this finding by the Constitutional Court? – Knowing that would of course be very interesting! Despite all these uncertainties, however, it is clear that: Together with your government partner, you want to increase the rate of increase. Even if you have juggled with other numbers today, you still do not count students, pensioners and apprentices into the quota – and this will increase it. In four years there will be approximately 100 000 people who want to get you to Austria, although already over 1 million foreigners are legal or illegal in Austria, of which only one quarter have employment and all others have to be counted on the social rate. – The unemployment rate is higher among foreigners, as you need nothing to beautify, that is simply the case, and this number is constantly increasing. It is really high time, ladies and gentlemen, for a real social balance to be drawn over imported workers. From official channels, this balance sheet is only positive for Austria. Mr Oellinger said this again today, but: They always consciously take out certain facts. For example, they quote a broadcast of the labour market service, in which it reads: "The labour market service confirms that foreigners have financed the social security stop by 418 million in 1994." This amount includes unemployment benefit, emergency aid, health and pension insurance contributions. But you didn't count the infrastructure at all. It has not been said that if children are there or even more children are to be reclaimed, more kindergartens are needed. compulsory education for foreign children is already costing 4.2 billion schilling. There is to be saved on the one hand, but there are still additional children to come in! The balance sheet with regard to unemployment insurance for foreigners is also negative; the balance sheet in relation to family aid is negative. [[Abg. Oils: That's not true! That's not true!]] You always work with turbid figures, Mr Oellinger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, the problems in the housing market still arise. You don't like to talk about it! If the family estate is to be forced, then of course it also has a huge influence on co-insurance in the health insurance case. The Federal Minister said: Foreigners also pay contributions, so they should also have entitlements. – One thing we need to remember, as I mean, but already: In the case of foreigners, more co-insurers benefit from the contributions than the Austrians, unfortunately, I say that. As Mr Maitz has already claimed two or three times today that we are doing freedom of expression, I say to him: I consider it contemptuous to look at the Austrians again in today's situation, when they are not told the truth if they make promises again and again, while the situation really gets worse from day to day. That's what I feel is a contempt for human beings! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to come here with an example that really comes from practice, namely in the field of health insurance, where there are currently major problems in financing. A doctor in my native Tyrol told me the following: He had Sunday service and was called by a foreigner to come to his child, it had 40 degrees of fever. The doctor said: Please come to the ordination, I'm not making house visits on Sundays when I'm on duty. On this point the foreigners: I can't come, I don't have a car. The doctor has said that he will try to come. He came to the apartment in question, which consisted of two rooms. In these rooms 17 people stayed, and of the 17 persons two were insured; there were two men. One was employed, the other was unemployed. 17 persons have lived in these rooms, and that they have not lived there legally, they are all clear. The doctor found that the said child was also ill. But not the child had 40 degrees fever, but an old woman, probably the grandmother. She had 40 degrees of fever, really so high a fever that one had to be afraid that it was something worse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] What does a doctor, Mrs Schaffenrath, do in such a situation? He's got to help. The woman was not insured, but of course he helped. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He has to!]] He has to. But one does not talk about the unfinancing of the Austrian health insurance companies. But these are things that totally burden our system. Above all: The trend is that through this new package of integration it is believed that the ageing of the population is getting under control. That this will not work is not just a study by the EU. According to this study, a total of 7 million people in working age should be brought to EU countries in the near future. – An Austrian specialist, Dr. Rainer Münz, also noted that even by massive immigration the problem of aging is not to be addressed, but that it would even intensify it. The problem can only be pushed out in the short term. Dr. Münz says something, and I say that again in your direction, Minister of State Hums: The social security system in Austria is not ill because there are too few people, but because there are too many unemployed and early retired workers. – Look The title line of the tomorrow edition of the "Kronen-Zeitung" is on: Early pensions will rise again. To do this, I can say: The statement by Dr. Münz must be justified! [[Abg. Oillinger: Is the "Kronen-Zeitung" the benchmark for your foreign policy?]] That's not foreign policy, but that's all a package, and that's why...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14199	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14215	I am already there, Mr President. That is why we are negotiating this together today, Mr Oellinger, what you do not want. You want to treat an area separately here and treat an area separately. I believe that we must finally move towards seeing the problems of Austrian social policy globally. This includes both employment policy and unemployment policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14233	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please end the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14248	And you would be well advised if you followed the suggestions of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14279	Thank you. Mr Pumberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14303	As the last speaker, I come to the summaries of today. – I’m the last speaker for the time being, but that’s not sure yet, maybe someone else will report. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Wabl.]] Mr. Wabl, maybe? Mr. Federal Minister Hums! I come to the summary that you really had a very difficult day today: After the failed negotiations with the social partners on the rehabilitation of the sick health insurance companies, you have to note today that this important urgent question has been made clear that the problem of foreigners is really very closely related to the unemployment problem and that these two issues cannot be resolved. – If you come home today, you can’t sing a song: "Such a day, as beautiful as today!" [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To the financial miscarriage of the health insurance companies. – Minister of State! They're still smiling, but I think that's not a really hearty laugh. I look at that very clearly to you! It would also be totally unnatural if you could only smile at the prevailing states. The financial abuses of the health insurance companies – which is also the reason why I am still speaking today – are not improved by the LKF or by structural reforms. The reforms cannot be implemented at all because, for example, the Group Practice Act is still blocked by the main association of social security funds and perhaps also by you. No structural changes can occur because you do not ensure that the social security institutions themselves are reformed. Because you only have one or two solutions available: Either to shorten the benefits or to increase the contributions. As the head of the social security scheme, you will be comfortably leaning back in the chair and saying: If we can no longer pay, then we increase the contributions or shorten the benefits. – This is so simple with the national system maror social security institutions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As we have already heard today, the family estate will impose an additional burden on social security schemes of 400 million schilling. [[Abg. Eder: All new patients!]] The Connex has thus already been created for today's foreign discussion: These 400 million schillings will also burden our health insurance companies. Because we have a constantly falling number of contributors, and we have an ever-increasing number of co-insurers. In the meantime, 34.1 percent of the social insurance companies are co-insurers, so more than a third are co-insurers and no more contributors! If, as part of the family estate, we now have to count about 100 000 additional persons under the planned foreigners' laws, another 100 000 co-insuranced non-payments will enter the already marode budget of the health insurance companies, and our patients who pay contributions for their lives will have to take cancellations and take up increased prescription fees. Contribution increases are already planned, there will be reductions in performance and a decrease in quality. – That really doesn't go on a cow's skin! Federal Minister! Anxiety They prefer that those who make their contributions also come to a high-quality health care in Austria! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is no agreement at all about who is actually a relative. In the brochures we receive from social security, there is a report on the year 1996. It reads: Families are children, spouses are "a.k.m." – that means: and others more. But who else falls below? - Uncles, aunts, mothers, fathers? All those who cannot prove social security are covered by it if they only fall under the term "members". That is why we have more and more members, more and more non-contributors. This fact is greatly aggravated by the problems of foreigners. There is, for example, a discrepancy of numbers: In Austria we have plus 0.8 percent insured – the co-insurers included – but only 0.5 percent of population growth. So it's obvious that there's a lack of 0.3 percent. I asked everywhere at the main association, at the social security, at the doctor's chamber: No one could tell me who these missing 0.3 percent are insured. Because it was confirmed that the insured rate remained the same at 99 percent. Before, it was 99 percent, now it's still 99 percent. The lack of 0.3 percent is about 25 000 unknown! 25 000 people in Austria are insured, and no one can say which people are involved. Which members of the family are those who do not pay contributions, but who benefit from the social benefit? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Perhaps you can give us information about this, Minister of State! However, I believe that on the one hand you are not in a position to do so, and on the other hand you are already a little tired of it today. Again and again I hear about the so-called operating tourism, and it also fits precisely into this subject. For example, many are still known the case of the Turkish Junus U. from October 1995: This was a 70-year-old Turkish, who worked in Austria a few years ago, and now – 25 years later – enters at the age of 70, where he is reported sick without any medical examination, and also, because he is unable to work, 299 Schilling receives health care per day. This means that he is automatically insured. What's the good man doing? – He lies in the hospital and undergoes a long-term operation, which he assumes cannot be carried out so well in Turkey. – The cost of hospitalisation of 130 000 S is financed by taxpayers and Austrian social security contributions. In addition, 120 000 S of sickness benefit is still being financed in this case. Finally, the disease is over, the Turkish Junus U. is returning home and has left our maritime health insurance system an extra charge of 250 000 s. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's not an individual case. I can give you some interesting numbers: At the European average – and that is exactly what is going on – this is very interesting, Mr. Guggenberger, perhaps you can learn something, 396 people per year using heart lung machines. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] In Austria it is not 396 patients, but 523 people, so by 30 percent more. Are the Austrians so much more ill, do they need much heavier operations or do the Austrian doctors operate much more than the European average? I don't think so. From somewhere, these 30 percent have to come. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Another number: In the case of heart valve surgery, 106 operations are performed on heart valves on the European average per 1 million people, and in Austria it is not 106, but 133, so it is also 30 percent more. [[Abg. Leikam: fairytale aunt!]] In the case of organ transplants – this is very interesting – we are 300 percent above the European average. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Where do these people come from? Are the Austrians so sick? [[Abg. Leikam: "In service"!]] Do all the foreign organs need to be planted? Do they need all the heart valves? Do all of these have to be operated on using heart-lung machines? There are between 30 and 250 percent more operations in Austria! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Somewhere these people come from. There are no statistics from which countries these people come. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Koppler and other MPs of SPÖ.]] Mr Koppler, some in your ranks and you yourself need urgent treatment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ask your Central Business Ratobmann Oberchrist about what he says. [[Call the SPÖ:What Oberchrist?]] Who's doing the work at the District Hospital? That's how you act according to the motto: "I don't need to do that, because that's what the others do anyway; I don't know myself anyway." For this purpose, however, the Landeskrankenkasse Oberchristl sends 20 000 S to party charges. – These are your people, VOEST’s central works councils! And then open your mouth so far! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP behaves very calmly, because it has criticized the same. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: This is a weak argument!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Health spokesman Rasinger, Mr. Nog-Health spokesperson Rasinger, between you and your colleague and any successor, Mr Pfeifer, it will, I believe, come to a rochade in the municipal council of Vienna. The health speaker Pfeifer from Vienna City Council said: yes to humanitarian aid – and in this point I fully commit him – but no to "spital tourism". Dear friend Rasinger, your colleague Pepper obviously has more vision than you do, for he recognizes the problem! [[Call the SPÖ: "Garden in Service"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Where's your car?]] ==References====External links== In March 1996, he announced that the Vienna Hospital Association produced losses in two-digit million-heights annually through the treatment of patients who are neither insured nor eligible for payment. [[Call the SPÖ: "Garden in the Service!"]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Where's your car?]] In this press release, Pepper also said that the depreciation of care fees, which are inconceivable, increased from 8 million to 20 million schilling in 1996 and thus by 250 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: A shame for a delegate!]] The health spokesperson of the ÖVP-Vienna continued: From 1989 to 1993, payment delays have been accelerated to 26 million schillings for Libyan patients alone. – The accusations that "spitals tourism", "operation tourism", is not exclusively from the ranks of the liberals. In this regard, we are sitting in a boat with the ÖVP, with well-known health politicians of the ÖVP and perhaps future health speakers. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: This is typical! He's ashamed! He's ashamed of himself! He's a coward!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I fully agree with Mrs Haller on the case she has pointed out with the 17 foreigners, who are largely illegal here, but are still being treated by the doctors, because, of course, the doctors are also acting according to medical morality and duty of treatment and would never refuse to treat a non-insured person. But I also know colleagues who are happy if they get a health certificate from a foreigner and actually treat an illegal, which has been shown by Mr Trenk. That's it. [[Abg. Fuhrmann: That's a terrible shit!]] A colleague of mine, who lives in a larger town, recently told me – in the city you don't know all the patients personally anymore – that people who are not insured with us and are illegal here come to him constantly with health certificates from socially insured countrymen. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Go to the service!]] Here I ask the question – there are 250 000 illegals in Austria –: Are these 250 000... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Don't ask any questions, ask your car elsewhere!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Rasinger, your friend Häupl speaks of 100 000 illegals alone in Vienna. Are those healthy people? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Are these people who never get sick at all? Who treats these people? [[Abg. Arbitrators: The doctors who are really on duty!]] Are they all private patients? [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: "Garden in Service"!]] I have not yet heard from any of my colleagues that these people are coming as private patients. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP: "Garden in Service"!]] That is, through these 250,000 illegals, "illegal" medical visits. And if you take an average of four medical contacts per year in Austria, 1 million medical contacts per year are: in some way, often in the large hospital hospitals, where anonymity prevails, where you treat with a health certificate of loud different people. Otherwise, I can't explain that to myself. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Mr Rasinger regrets having such a colleague!]] Care must be taken that, if one does not know him, the patient must prove himself with the health certificate. Because in another way one cannot stop such abuse. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! – If you could play out briefly from Mr Rasinger, I will tell you the following: I believe that the SPÖ is in a position not to stand for an increase in self retention. And I think it is with the EIA that we liberals are not available for increases in contributions, because this will increase the additional wage costs again. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To bring about a real renovation, Minister of State: Make order with this miscarriage! Get rid of social abuse!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14669	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14687	Ensure a reform of social health insurance! Then we can continue to negotiate!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14714	The list of speakers is exhausted, the debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Salzl and Comrades on the introduction of a seasonal model in the Foreign Employment Act. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades on comprehensive measures against rising unemployment. I ask for a sign in case of consent. – This is also the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Haider doesn't agree!]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14759	Ladies and gentlemen! I take the negotiations on the 1. On today's agenda again, on the 1994 safety report. I call Mr Puttinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14783	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High house! I would like to thank you for having the opportunity to speak on the same subject twice today. I would like to thank the FPÖ for having put in this urgent question. Otherwise, she didn't bring a lot of results. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to look back briefly and repeat two more requests to the Minister I have already made: The first request concerns the public prosecutors' cheeses: There has been a decline of more than 33 percent in the last two years! That is why I would ask you to take into account the consequences of human resources in the future, because I believe this should be taken into account in the time of the savings package. My second request concerns both civil and criminal proceedings. Both should be accelerated accordingly. In my opinion, we should find starting points here to speed up at least those cases that have been dealt with for three, four or more years. There is a need for faster handling. Finally, I have already mentioned that I am particularly pleased that the importance of the district courts is again highlighted in this report. Finally, 72.2 percent of all criminal proceedings fall within the jurisdiction of these District Courts and are also dealt with there. High house! Three-quarters of criminal proceedings are thus carried out in small units. It has been helped to break the principle of subsidiarity by the novel of the criminal procedure, which has changed the limits of value. However, this Rules of Procedure Novelle made it quite clear: It is quite possible to give the District Courts more tasks in order to relieve larger units, to ensure the close-up of the people seeking justice and to actually create the confidence required. Close-up care, Mr Minister, means more than just speaking or holding a day of negotiation per week in the area of justice. In my opinion, local healthcare in the field of justice is also more important than the basic book extracts with the computer. Close-up is a complex term: It includes services such as postal services, public transport services, shopping and entertainment facilities, but also the provision of public security and justice facilities. Especially in rural areas, in the Alpine valleys, whose depopulation has so far only prevented tourism, the disappearance of each of the local facilities means a further lack of infrastructure that we cannot afford. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I therefore call on you, Minister, to include these aspects in your considerations. "A good right needs help" says an old saying – and this help is also in the local judicial care. I would like to address another issue, namely that of detention. It is gratifying that, as the official language says, "average levels of those in charge of investigation" have been reduced from 1993 to 1994. On the other hand, I think it is even more frightening to examine that the safety report already mentions a figure for the first half of 1995 and this figure is almost identical to the total number of 1994. In 1994, there were 1,688 persons, in 1995 alone in the first half of the year, there were 1,605 persons who had become criminal. We should, I think, take care of what happened, but you should clarify this number if it is not correct. As in the previous years, I would also like to mention the different handling of the U-port in the four Oberlandesgerichtsprängeln. Statistically speaking, the probability of being taken in U-haft by my ladies and gentlemen in Vienna is four times higher than in Innsbruck. The highest rate of detention in Vienna was 14.3 percent, whereas the lowest rate in Innsbruck was 3.3 percent. Thus, while in Innsbruck only more than every 30th arrest was imposed, here in Vienna the arrest had to be suspended over every seventh. [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you conclude?]] This means that justice is not necessarily the same everywhere. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We regret to say, Minister, that this safety report in these parts is literally similar to the 1993 report and that, unfortunately, these figures have not changed. I think that should happen. We must really hope that in the future, justice will make the effort to use the figures from the corresponding year in the report. The different duration of the arrest also gives reason to think: In Vienna it is 63 days, but in Graz only 49 days. Mr Minister, if I were a pocket thief with a brain, I would move my activities from Vienna to Graz – after studying this security report – because I will be "oneholed" for less long – under quotation marks. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein and Dr. Stummful.]] In the case law, there are serious differences, and I do not think we can accept that here in the House. High house! In the 1994 Security Report, I see a lot of positive, but also a little negative, in the Chapter on Justice. The positive one probably does not need any further explanation, because in the normal case, we can expect positive work in the administration to be done and that this does not represent a special achievement, but rather that the Austrian people deserve it to be worked in such a positive way. As for the negative appearances, this should be an incentive and a start of Parliament to perhaps make these things a little better in the future. Save a little more and go a little more in the right direction...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14844	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14859	... more attention, because without certainty there is no freedom. That's what Willhelm of Humboldt said. I don't think there's anything to add to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14889	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the The second word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14911	Mr President. Dear ministers – and also ex-ministers! Back to the security report. There is a need to maintain the following: These statistics, which are presented to us in part, are certainly not to be read in such a way as an objective report can normally be read. In fact, if Minister of the Interior Caspar ==References== In February of this year, according to crime statistics, the number of crimes has fallen to exactly 490 539 – and thus about 10,000 less criminal offences were committed compared to the previous year – but this statement has been resisted by its predecessor, Mr Lösnak, on 31 December 1995. The APA explained to the APA in March 1995 that it was pleased to have lowered the magic sound wall of 500 000 and committed only 495 493 crimes, so the question must already be asked: What information is actually correct: The details of Mr Lösnak, Mr D.'s Minister, or the particulars of Mr Einem's Minister? Nevertheless, the following must be noted: The 490 539 criminal offences that have been committed are by no means a success for Austria, because we are so to speak on an extremely high level. So what can be read from the statistics? – Unclear numbers! You juggle with numbers! One minister shows 5 000 more crimes than the other Minister a year before, namely for 1994. Have the criteria changed as already in 1993, where it is quite easy to treat crime types, types of criminals and gang crime differently, thereby getting a lower number – or has only changed the advertising practice of the population by not showing many crimes at all, because it means that it is pointless anyway? In particular in the property field – and since I have been more "affected" myself – one simply doesn't achieve success with the perpetrators. However, the fact that these statistics and the report are not in themselves reflected in reality also shows a chapter on extremist activities. It is written in the 1994 Security Report under point 3.1.1.4. international and also national left-wing terrorism: "There were no reporting results in 1994 in the Federal Region." Minister! They know that this is simple and simply wrong. To mention just two examples: Have you forgotten the fires of left-wing terrorists on the Mercedes plant? Have you forgotten the attacks on the Westbahn? You said at the time in the Committee on the Interior that you were only informed about this in 1995. But the report is being presented to us today and at least now we could have written in the actual facts. – This is only to give an example of how these reports are ultimately "freed". But let's stick to this issue: Consider the problem of Turkish-Kurdish extremism. [[Abg. Oellinger: Since when is he a minister?]] The report states that the Turkish-Kurdish conflict has gained in importance in the field of foreign extremism. The report also shows that the most active group is the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK). [[Abg. Ollinger: Do you know when a minister is?]] It has developed more and more into a European security problem, it is said there. – Bravo, Minister! And on top of that: "Your activists are trying to draw attention to the Kurdish problem through actions in European states and through actions in Turkey, which in turn suffers from Turkey's tourism." Austria was also not spared from such violence in 1994. – However, there are no attacks of Kurds in the crime statistics. Obviously, this has been the case with "Turkish violent crimes" – that is only mentioned for reasons of completeness. But why do I even say that? [[Abg. Oillinger: That's what I'm asking myself!]] It has already been found in 1994 that there is, in fact, a terrorism on the part of the PKK in Austria. We would like to point out that – and also many criminal law experts are not aware of this crime at all – according to § 316 para. 1 StGB – I ask you to listen urgently, perhaps you too, Minister! – that there is therefore a type of crime in § 316 StGB, according to which anyone who "takes it domestically, by force or by threat, changes the constitution of a foreign state or separates the territory of a foreign state" must be punished with a term of imprisonment of six months to five years. ==References== In March 1996, the "Newrozfest" took place in the Kurhalle Oberlaa. Speakers were put in there, Minister. And there is already a connection to the security report. This report – if you want to learn something from it – should also be a target for the future, so I will tell you these events that may already be known to you. So at this festival, speech choirs were intoned, such as: "Hitler's grandchildren will still wonder" or: "The fight continues!" [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Other calls for action were directed against Turkey, but also against other European states. In speeches before this feast, inter alia, territorial divisions were called upon by Turkey to establish its own Kurd State, and, if necessary, by force. Such a festival was also announced in Germany in several cities, but was banned there, unlike Austria. In Frankfurt, Mannheim, Osnabrück and Baden-Württemberg, several hundreds of terrorists were arrested in this regard and their righteous punishment was given. In Austria, there have already been several attacks by the PKK in 1994, including the Turkish Airline et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Elmecker.]] Shall I list you a few? – Unfortunately, I have only limited speaking time available now. The Minister may be able to report to you at a club meeting. The AKIV bank in Vienna, for example, was devastated, trade fair rats were practiced in Turkish travel agencies and so on. I could list more; the Minister already knows about this. It is also to be read in the safety report that you should know that. All these crimes were committed by PKK members in the context of the demand for territorial and constitutional redundancies, for the purpose of repressing the establishment of their own Kurdish state by force and threat. The PKK and its sub-organisations all confess themselves fully to the objectives pursued by the terrorists who have so far been attacked and condemned, which fulfil the situation of § 316 StGB According to the 1994 OGH judgment, the PKK is an organisation whose activity is in the exercise of acts of terror. The facts that are known at this stage, therefore, justify the urgent suspicion of action of § 316 StGB, which, however, can only be pursued if the Federal Government makes a request for prosecution in this regard. And on this point, the Federal Government is now being called upon to set up appropriate activities and not to let it come to light again. That is why I am also putting forward a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Khol, in a conversation, said to me that he would not support this request, for the reason that the EIA is in the government and that he cannot therefore agree with the request of the liberals. I'm telling you here and today: This is not an application that is directed against the government, it only includes bringing about a secure state for the future in our country Austria. I would ask the ÖVP to consider this 'foundation', particularly with regard to the fact that Mr Kiss has already made similar demands in this respect, but has never been able to get through with such parliamentary activity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15011	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Haigermoser is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15035	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Martin Graf stopped with Kiss, and I'll start with Kiss. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Kishon?]] As one of the most vehement hardliners of the ÖVP – in the past – Kiss has today almost denied the security problems that exist in Austria. – But no one problem can be solved by this displacement! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very interesting how Kiss mutated. Because of his speech, I have found that the political backbone was broken. The question is: who? Was it Andreas Khol or someone else who got there? Kiss has today been politically "pierct". He was pulled in many small nose rings, probably every body site to allow him to hang on the short line. So Andreas Khol once again pulled in his golden nose rings at Kiss. Kiss is really sorry, 'cause he's a gifted rhetorician. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, however, Kiss has appeared to me as if he were part of that genus of politicians who can stand up without backbone because of the thick skin. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] So Kiss was politically "pierced". Hopefully, he didn't have another original sin now, hiding Ms. Fekter's shoe somewhere! - Or was it Kukacka? I don't know! Of course, the whole thing is not an official crime, but the question arises: Was it mouth-robbing or shoplifting? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In reality it was Haigermoser!]] Perhaps this can be answered by the Federal Minister for Justice, ladies and gentlemen. – In any case: I never want to get lost in your ranks, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I don't want to get lost in this forest where it is, oh, so dark! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope – for you, I hope – that whipping bangers Andreas Khol will not start now with highly-needed interviews to find out who the shoe hideer is! But now, ladies and gentlemen, the matter is serious: I would like to quote, in particular, the Amon People's Party to the EIA: There is double morality in the ÖVP. But I don't feel comfortable because there's no place for different opinions. – End of the quote. – Mr Amon does not feel comfortable in a party where there is no place for divergent opinions. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What does this have to do with certainty?]] And Kiss has had to experience painstakingly that he no longer has any room in the political debate at all, that he is now kept on the short line, and that the backbone has been broken to him. Ladies and gentlemen! I would not have expected this from a clubman of a party who is now always pretending to have to be particularly liberal! And the embarrassment smile, Kiss, don't use anything now! You'll probably have to calm down at the toad collection now! It is very praiseful that after the ten days of Parliament, like the newspapers, you are acting environmentally friendly by collecting toads and rescheduling them on the other side of the road. It is obviously necessary in the short linens that you have been set up here that you work out a free space yourself at the collection of toads. Ladies and gentlemen! I should now like to address another issue: the problem of addiction. For I think it is necessary to discuss this subject publicly. It is necessary to clarify how the subject continues to be dealt with in Austria. Because the problems are turned under the table, drug crime is being destroyed in wide areas, and the Schicki-Micki drugs are treated rather nonchalantly at all. Ladies and gentlemen! We know, however, that drug crime is one of the breeding grounds for Mafia's activities, and the drug trade is also celebrating our happy origins! We liberals know, of course, that drug crime is not just an Austrian problem. We know that this is a global problem and in other countries the difficulties are far greater than in Austria. But this awareness must not lead us to put the problems under the table! There are two schools of thought in relation to drug crime. And we liberals value to work out the difference between these two philosophies. On the one hand, there are think schools of the Left, the Greens, the Liberals, the Social Democracy, which mean: Let us make access to drugs as easy as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] Mr Guggenberger! That's your doctrine! This will reduce procurement crime, the deal is not so lucrative anymore, the whole misery would become more manageable. – This is the left-wing view of how it is also practiced and lived in a wide range of areas. – With this left-wing attitude, ladies and gentlemen, we do not in any way identify liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] These "models" – under quotation marks – have suffered shipwreck. - Oils! I know you're holding on to this doctrine, too. However, the fact that it has suffered shipwreck shows itself in the example of Zurich. Because at the top of the square or at the Lettengrund, the opposite was the case in the final effect, Mr Oellinger! There, where your relatives have become active, crime has increased, and the number of crimes including murder and killing has more than doubled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this liberal drug policy has failed. This is shown not only by the example of Zurich, but also by the example of Holland. We therefore believe that drug trafficking must be combated with all public means, of course, while at the same time taking medical care of the treatment of dependent people. There is still much to be done in this area, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I would like to say once again: It must not apply the "model" Amsterdam. Because within a few years, starting from 20 "coffee shops", more than 350 such locals have been created, and the misery there is getting bigger daily. [[Abg. Oils: Not a word of that is true!]] Mr Oellinger! If it is denied that cannabis products are harmful, you are doing yourself and all the others who attach this thesis are guilty when more and more young people become drug addicts. And this is not responsible, Mr Oillinger from the left! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, these dubious "models" such as Mr. Wecker, to whose wedding Mr. Sharping goes and demonstrates that cocaine is only a pleasant thing anyway. – These are no models for youth, not for other citizens, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister for Justice and Internal Security! It is therefore important to ensure, in the revision of the addiction law, that the above trends do not become law. Access to entry dry number I, to cannabis resin products, should not be facilitated by law. We believe that drug use must be combated by all means. Deeper sense of your efforts to remove this problem from the criminal law is likely that you can finally enjoy the security reports and statistics according to the motto of the socialist coalition: We have done everything, the number of drug offences is falling. For, of course, a large part of these criminal acts would fall out of statistics in such efforts. If one still hears that it is planned to go up from 1.5 grams to 5 grams in the penalties for trade in heroin, i.e. with hard drugs, so that the deal can no longer be held under the paragraphs of the Criminal Code, it can be found once again that the left has united in this area. I only hope that the Austrian People's Party will not go on glue with this attack on the health of the Austrians! Or better said: I do not really have any hope, but I think it must be pointed out in good time. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, the so-called drug liberalisation programmes have created more misery and suffering than prevented where they were practised. Crime has not been restricted. Instead, the dealer's battles, associated with murder and death, have intensified. Therefore, only one thing applies: There must be increased awareness of young people, there must be no harmonizing of entry-level drugs and fashion drugs. Best equipment of the executive to combat trade and rigorous deportation of foreign offenders must become a matter of course. For a foreigner who violates the laws of our country has lost nothing in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15167	Mr Oellinger has made a statement on an actual correction. The provisions to be complied with are known. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15191	Mr President. Mr Haigermoser said in his opinion that the policy of drug liberalisation in Zurich had failed or that it was run by the left-wing majority of Zurich. Mr Haigermoser is likely to have missed some of his "penable" research. So I put it right: The policy of drug liberalisation had its origin and was first operated by a councillor of the "voluntary" in Zurich. This policy of drug liberalisation is pursued by the "free will" with other parties in Zurich!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15227	Deputies! I have not heard Mr Haigermoser's speech. But there is a strong impression that, in terms of value, it is being discussed whether a policy is successful or not. There are no more words available now. That is why the debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. Then we can vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee to take note of this report III-17 of the supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this report for a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf on highly treacherous attacks against a foreign state. I should also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Graf's request for a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. That concludes item 1 of the agenda. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the report on the situation of Austrian agriculture in 1994 pursuant to § 9 of the Agricultural Law 1992 (36. Green Report), presented by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry (III-9/58 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the 1994 Austrian Forest Report (III-10/59 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (7 of the supplements): Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes, including Plants and Declaration (60 of Supplements) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 26/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on agricultural and forestry site assurance (61 of the supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the report of the Federal Government (III-21 of the Supplements) on measures for agriculture and forestry for 1996 and 1997 pursuant to § 9 para. 2 LWG (91 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15358	We now come to points 2 to 6 of the agenda. The debate will be held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Agriculture concerning the situation of Austrian agriculture, 36. Green report, presented by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, in addition to the Austrian Forest Report 1994, on the Government template 7 on an agreement on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses, 60 of the supplements, 26/A (E) by Mrs Aumayr on agricultural and forestry location assurance, 61 of the supplements, and the report by the Federal Government III-21 of the supplements on measures for agriculture and forestry for 1996 and 1997. On item 2, Mr Schrefel. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15379	Mr President. High house! I will return the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the situation of Austrian agriculture in 1994 pursuant to § 9 of the Agricultural Law 1992, presented by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry took note of the report at its meeting on 5 November. ==References====External links== As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry therefore makes the request that the National Council take note of the report on the situation of Austrian agriculture in 1994 in accordance with Article 9 of the Agriculture Act, submitted by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, III-9 of the Supplements.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15403	Thank you, my colleague, for reporting. On point 3, Mrs Horngacher reports. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15422	Mr President. High house! I will return the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Austrian Forest Report 1994, III-10 of the Supplements. The present report was published on 22 March. ==References====External links== The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry took note of the report at its meeting on 5 November. ==References====External links== The motions for resolutions tabled in the course of the debate by Mr Andreas Wabl, Mr Matthias Reichhold and Mr Robert Wenitschfanden did not agree with the majority of the Committee. At the time of the vote, it was decided by a majority to recommend to the National Council the adoption of the current report. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry therefore proposes that the National Council take note of the Austrian Forest Report 1994.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15458	Thank you, Mrs. Colleague. On item 4, Mr Auer said. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15476	Mr President. High house! I shall bring the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template 7 of the Supplements to the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes, including Annexes and Declaration. The aim of the present Convention is to strengthen cooperation with a view to effective emission limitation as well as cooperation on the collection of the state of water within and between the Contracting States, thereby primarily reducing the cross-border impact of water pollution. ==References====External links== In March of this year it was decided by a majority to apply to the National Council in accordance with the nature of the proposal. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG on the promulgation of the French and Russian language versions of the Convention outside the Bundesgesetzblatt. In addition, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry considers that this State Treaty, within the meaning of Article 1 of the Treaty, does not apply. Paragraph 50 2 BVG is to be fulfilled by the adoption of laws. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry proposes that the National Council: 1. The Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes, including Annexes and Declaration (7 of the Supplements) is hereby approved. 2. This State contract is in accordance with the nature of the contract. Paragraph 50 2 B-VG by passing laws. 3rd. The French and Russian language version of the Convention is in accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG by making them available for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry during the official hours.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15517	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Schrefel is now reporting on point 5. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15535	I shall return the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the resolution 26/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on agricultural and forestry site assurance. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has received the motion for a resolution at its meeting on 5 June. ==References====External links== At the time of the vote, the motion for a resolution in motion for a resolution was not approved by the majority of the Committee. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry therefore requests that the National Council take note of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15565	Thank you, honourable Member. Finally, Mr. Friend of the European Parliament reports on item 6.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15584	Mr President. High house! I will report back to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Federal Government report on measures for agriculture and forestry for the years 1996 and 1997 in accordance with § 9 para. 2 Agriculture Act. ==References====External links== This report was adopted on 15 March and forwarded to the National Council for consideration. This report was published on 20 July. It was allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on 1 March 1996. The situation of Austrian agriculture is characterised by difficult adaptation processes to the common agricultural policy system of the European Union. The next few years will bring important alternatives to the continuation of agricultural and environmental agriculture in the EU. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry adopted the present report at its meeting on 29 November. ==References====External links== At the time of the vote, it was decided by a majority to recommend to the National Council the adoption of the current report. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry therefore proposes that the National Council should submit to the Federal Government's report on measures for agriculture and forestry for 1996 and 1997 in accordance with § 9 para. 2 to take note of the agricultural law. Mr President. If there are any speeches, I would like to try to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15623	Thank you very much. The debate is designed for three "Vienna hours". That means: SPÖ 45 minutes, ÖVP 42 minutes, Free 39 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 27 minutes. Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15650	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The 1994 Green Report is as "current" as the previous weather forecast. The only thing that is certain is that since 1994 there have been thousands of farmers who have had to leave their farms. ==References== There is no longer any stone left on the other side of the agricultural policy in January 1995. The agricultural policy is now being settled at 100 percent in Brussels, and it is also decided there. Farmers have truly been covered with a flood of forms; the chamber officials have thereby obtained an authority of existence. I just wonder what the chamber officials will do after the end of the funding, because then there are no more requests to make. But one has found a new dungeon for the farmers, namely the AMA. The farmers are in the hostage of the AMA, in addition to the Chambers with Forced Membership, the AMA has acquired power instruments, and it can now really decide on the presence or absence of the farmers. One has to imagine this: 16 Supervisory Boards have been installed there, and per nose these supervisors receive 220 000 S per year! At the same time, the farmers were made the AMA-Knecht. There's a report on this in the Salzburger Nachrichten. Mr Schwarzböck! You never met. So that must be true! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition to the implementation of the EU-agricultural market regulation, this AMA has now taken over the marketing of agricultural products. However, the AMA seal, for which the farmers pay, also applies to products whose contents do not have to come from Austria to 100 percent. These seal marks are also attached to a sausage whose contents are produced only 75 percent in Austria. This AMA seal now also receives the Italian milk company Parmalat. The Italian dairy company Parmalat now sells its drinking milk with the AMA seal! A seal of quality is also annoyed by consumers. The "A" can actually be equated with "foreign". Every day trucks, loaded with live animals, roll into our country. They only need to be slaughtered in Austria, and at the time they were slaughtered, it doesn't matter whether they come from Holland, Germany or Belgium, wherever they come from: The moment these animals were slaughtered in Austria, the products received the "A" seal. You have to imagine that! Is this a fraud on the consumer: yes or no? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! What are you doing about it? – You don’t mind, you really don’t do anything about it! However, the consequences of this seal confusion have now been shown so correctly due to the disease of BSE. And how did Austrian consumers react? – By refusing beef consumption. And that is why the Austrian cattle farmers are now totally innocent. Tragedy really takes place on the farms daily. Every day, fifty farmers leave their farms because they are totally ruined by the price: They can't sell their cattle or just more with price reductions of 30 to 40 percent. In the European Union 50 billion schilling is available from the agricultural budget. The Liberals make a request in the main committee that these 50 billion schillings, which are available in Brussels and which are surplus, be made by the Austrian Federal Government and the Minister for Agriculture, so that Austrian cattle farmers can at least be partially compensated. But what is the ÖVP doing? And what is the SPÖ doing? – You reject this request! On the other hand, your colleagues in the media, Mr Schwarzböck, Mr Höfinger, and as they all call, ask that these 50 billion schillings be made public in Brussels. So doubling you act to the detriment of the Austrian farmers! That's really a scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are going to put it again today, exactly the same thing that these 50 billion schillings or at least some of them for Austrian cattle farmers are being harvested and recovered. I am curious about how the Austrian People's Party will act in the vote on this request. Since August 1995 the monetary compensatory amounts have been in Brussels! Mr Schwarzenberger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Minister! You often go to Brussels. Why Take You don't want these money with me? To this day, you haven't brought a schilling! Where's the dog buried? Why is the money in Brussels, while the Austrian cattle farmers and the Austrian cereal farmers are waiting for the currency balance? - You're not doing anything. Ten thousand farmers left their farms last year. The young farmers leave the farms in crowds. There really is no future perspective, and after the degressive compensatory payments have expired, half of the Austrian courts now in existence will have to be abandoned. Federal Minister Molterer! They have the most expensive security policy ever pursued by a minister! They do not run agricultural policy, but they are a policy of insurmountability! [[Congratulations on the liberals!]] For amounts in billions of height, fields are shut down, and with the silence of the fields, the farmers are still. You have to imagine: In 1995, the EU spent 104 billion schilling for decommissioning, for fruit destruction, for extermination! This must be imagined once; For non-agricultural agriculture, 104 billion Schillings were spent! The smaller farms do not at all exclude these set-aside quotas, because they now have to buy feed if they want to keep the quota by 25 percent. 104 billion schillings are spent in order not to run agriculture! This is not an agricultural policy! This decommissioning policy is really worst crisis management! It only promotes the abolition of farmers! This measure only serves the agricultural industry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzböck! This agricultural policy is also an insanity in the economic sense of the economy. At a time when there is a dramatic rise in unemployment rates, you ruin the safe workplace farm; they simply rationalize it away. – While they announce one job offensive after another, they are not even able to secure existing jobs. Support and first protect the existing jobs! The farm workplace secures three more jobs in the economy. But what are you doing, Minister? You should know all of this! - You're not doing anything! They really shine because of absence in this problem! We liberals have made a request in committee: Location security farm. As always, it has been rejected by the ÖVP. If you had agreed, we would have removed this problem from the world at least for the next time! Public domain: Minister! Not only that you are really inactive in very crucial areas, you also break promises you have given! They have promised farmers that they can enter the ÖPUL programme at any time, in this environmental programme. You said: This applies for five years, and you can get in at any time. – What to do But now you? Now you're going to announce an entry stop. How are farmers still to be identified with a minister who has already given promises? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The EU's agricultural policy has failed. It becomes unfinancingable, and it destroys millions of jobs. Real winners in this system can only be large businesses. Daimler-Benz, for example, has never had anything to do with agriculture. Now, however, this farm is growing pigs in large-scale in Spain, with EU funding. Future prospects in the EU: Everything is already being negotiated, for example, that meat ranches may slaughter only more than 20 cattle per month, that the production of farm animals and their slaughter – the slaughter! – can only take place in large businesses and no longer in small businesses. The meat hygiene regulation and the milk hygiene regulation, Mr Schwarzböck, have been welcomed. If the meat hygiene regulation comes in the planned form, it has ceased for the self-marketers. You know that very well! In Brussels we are already working on standardizing the taste. The whole thing is called "Flair". This "Flair" programme, Mr Schwarzböck, will prohibit the regional purity bids and unify the taste for all foods. The large companies need consistent products and as low-cost raw materials as possible for the production of their gastric fillers. – Food can no longer be called that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What's left of your "fine shop"? – Unemployed farmers, empty villages, standardized food, genetically modified food, irradiated food and agro-industry. And if you, Mr Minister, do not want to rationalize yourself and their thousands of chamber officials and officials in the ministry, then it will be high time that you have a agricultural policy that really serves the farmers and not any large corporations! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The approval of our request concerning the Austrian cattle farmers would really be an act of solidarity with the farmers. The rulings of the ÖVP could thus deliver a promise. The liberals will continue to demand in the sense of subsidiarity that the agricultural policy should come back and be decided where it belongs: in Austria. I would like to comment briefly on the issue of farmers. Mr Donabauer! What is left of the requirement regarding the installation of a farmer's pension? What did you do now? – You have increased the number of months of contribution, thousands of farmers who were over 50 years old at the time, in 1992. [[Abg. Donabauer: Learn to read! Exercise!]] This has nothing to do with reading, Mr Donabauer. You yourself have admitted that this is a problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] You know: The current transitional scheme is such that farmers over 50 years of age who have decided to claim their own pension must work longer and pay longer because of the increase in contributions by three to four years. This is ultimately the result that came out of it. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The reduction scheme!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: Learn to read!]] Just a short while to the equestrian farm: Mr Molterer, I call on you to do everything in the future to ensure that the Stadl-Paura equestrian farm is in order, in order to ensure that there will also be horse breeding in Austria in the future. The Stadl-Paura institution has been ruined by the inactivity of the competent ministers. One has just let this topic be sanded, and now this breeding facility is in the open. I urge them, Minister, to ensure that the equestrian farm remains in Austria and that those to whom it is handed over can also afford to continue this equine breeding.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15773	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15795	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The value of the liberals' debate and the agricultural block shows by their actions, which you have tried to ensure that it is not possible to vote until midnight. The speaker in front of me confused this late hour with a fairy tale hour, because what she gave best here is really from the fairy tale realm. I have to use my entire speaking time to disprove all their arguments here. However, I would just like to make a few points: The first point to be rejected is that in Brussels 50 billion schillings are in surplus and that money is only to be collected. After the dilemma caused by BSE, we will have to be glad to find out with the existing resources in the argrairhet line at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] If you claim that since August the monetary compensatory system in Brussels was so to speak, and the Minister needed only one suitcase to carry the money for Austria, I must contradict you. Mrs Aumayr! I must remind you that this monetary adjustment was decided in the Federal Budget 1996 - both the EU and the national federal funds - to be decided. This disbursement has been rejected by the FPÖ at second and third readings. So that's a huge duality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the vote, I even drew the attention of Mr Reichhold to the fact that we are voting on monetary adjustment on this point. In some areas of economic promotion, the "F" movement has voted in favour of the 1996 and 1997 budgets. But the subject was also rejected at second reading by the "F" group. [[Abg. Auer: Rejected!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's scandalous!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present Green Report on the economic situation of agriculture and forestry 1994 analyses the situation of agriculture and forestry last year before EU accession. If my previous speaker has complained about the topicality here, I must point out that the fault that we are only discussing this report in plenary is not with the Minister for Agriculture. He sent this report to the National Council on a timely basis last September. Due to the termination of the XIX. However, the legislative period had to be reintroduced in January. At the beginning of March it was discussed in the Committee on Agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] However, the many Committee and budget dates for the 1996 and 1997 budgets and for the Structural Adjustment Act have not enabled this request to be put on the agenda earlier in the presidential term, because it is more important than a report that is now being quoted here. On this occasion, however, I would like to thank the more than 2 300 farmers who are willing to take up the work, to do precise accounting, to present and keep all the records in order to give a picture of Austrian agriculture. I would like to thank all these farmers for their additional work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is no profession that is so thorough about the income situation, production development, market conditions, the international framework and the use of public funds, as is the case with the Green Report of agriculture and forestry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] The final production of agriculture and forestry increased by 3.4 percent in real terms in 1994 to 77.3 billion schillings and the losses of previous years could thus be compensated. Of final production in agriculture, 67 percent were animal products and 33 percent were vegetable products. Of course, major changes brought about by the 1st century for agriculture. January 1995: the EU accession of Austria: On the one hand, we were forced to adopt the global GATT rules, on the other hand, the common agricultural policy of the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you believe all that you say?]] With this breach, our cereal prices fell by about 50 percent, the milk price by one third, the beef price by about 25 percent. The so-called Europe Treaty in Austria was negotiated for the purpose of safeguarding incomes in the spring of 1994. This Europe Treaty secures national payments to farmers. These payments are financed by 60 percent from federal funds and 40 percent from national funds in the respective federal states. These payments are also secured in the current government programme for the entire legislative period. Mrs Aumayr! If you said earlier in your debate that the chamber officials will be unemployed after the degressive payments have expired, I must teach you a better one: The degressive payments in the dairy sector, for example, are paid through dairy farms and not through the chambers, with pigs being handled through the slaughterhouses. However, the entire range of other promotions is worked together with INVECOS from the chambers and from the AMA. However, these are not degressive payments that expire after four years, but these are permanent promotions that will continue to be available to us in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] I think it is bad to keep the farmers uncertain about the future. I have the impression that your greatest wish would be for as many farmers as possible to stop and the young farmers to leave agriculture. You really want to talk about that. The 1996 Federal Budget provides for 29.9 billion schilling for the agriculture and forestry chapter, 13.4 billion of which are EU funds. On the priorities: For environmental promotion, there are 7.5 billion schilling, the EU's market-regulation payments account for around 7.8 billion schilling – which, of course, depends on how many cattle premiums, suckler's premiums, sheep's premiums – and there are the degressive compensatory payments, which in this year still amount to almost 4.6 billion schilling, and another focus is the compensation payments – so far known as a mining grant – with around 2.9 billion schilling. However, in 1995 there were still additional difficulties for agriculture. Although for us in the internal market, the devaluation of different currencies is a major problem, the devaluation of the lira hit us particularly strongly. After all, last year we were able to increase agricultural exports to Italy, agricultural products and food by 83 percent. The low lira price led to unsatisfying prices. That is why it has been agreed that we will receive 255 million schilling from Brussels. I must stress once again that, of course, this must go beyond our federal budget and cannot be paid out until our budget is not decided. This budget also needs approval. In addition, 153 million schilling from the Federal budget is needed for this area. It is planned that these monetary compensatory payments will be made at the centre of the cattle sector, because the biggest difficulties in this area were encountered last year. The beef sales and prices were once again heavily affected in this year, due to the cow's delusion in England: Although Austria had no suspicion of BSE, at least in the short term, we still had to take a strong market break and price loss. The market collapse has still not been fully wagered, and the price losses are already about 10 percent in the spring. That is why we hope that the next Council of Agriculture Ministers, in early June, will ensure appropriate protection for those European farmers who had suffered from the fact that consumers are insecure and thus of course immediately there was an overhang of slaughter. Proposals have already been made in the last Council of Agriculture Ministers, which took place yesterday and yesterday. But there are other areas which we must develop together through the agricultural policy. A further development is under discussion. Austria is also in the process of creating a memorandum to promote the mountain areas. Austria, for example, requires that a uniform base amount be taken into account for all farms, i.e. small and larger farms, as well as land supplements, as has been the custom of the mining grant so far. The maintenance of the settlement in the mountain areas is only possible if we are able to keep up-to-date farms, including small by-products. That is why such a base amount would be an essential necessity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another important measure for the mountain region and the less favoured regions in Austria is that we continue to have production quotas so that production is not completely shifted to the favours. Otherwise, establishments in disfavors and smaller holdings may no longer be able to cope with these costs. Our idea would be that, like the Arctic, we will also create a target area for the mining plants of the Alpine region. Intensive discussion is also taking place at the moment about the enlargement of the European Union. On the one hand, we must be interested in the fact that the Eastern European countries can continue to develop so that socialism does not re-enter it; on the other hand, we must act with due caution, because not only the agricultural market could get into disorder but also the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] It is necessary to keep in mind – as long as the income difference is so large – how many people from Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Germany, or Austria would be looking for jobs. Everyone can imagine the problems that would arise in our labour market. Another area I would like to address is the internal market. It requires equal conditions of competition. We stand by these conditions of competition, but – as mentioned again – at the same time. There is, of course, a tendency for us to always be 10, 20 and more percent better than other, stricter rules, but to be partly lower in prices than in our neighbouring countries. I am addressing the problem of animal torture here. The Austrian farmers are not animal torture. We are in favour of applying strict animal welfare rules, but we must also take action to ensure that there are strict animal welfare regulations across Europe. It will not help us if we ruin many of the production areas in Austria and then produce them at much worse conditions beyond our borders. Our task is therefore to improve these standards across Europe. These reports will be approved by my group, the Group of the Austrian People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15918	As Mr Wabl has withdrawn his request for actual correction, Mr Firlinger will speak. - Here you go. Maximum speaking time 27 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15939	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing is more boring than yesterday's news, is a beautiful saying! [[Abg. Wabl: Please stop!]] This is how we could comment on the fact that, with half a year's delay, we are only discussing this report today. I do not want to go into detail on the reasons. It is now a fact, Mr Schwarzenberger, even if you have just fallen into a defense speech. The same applies to the forest report. I do not want to stop here with the past, but go straight into the present or, even better, into the future. Here are some problems of thoughtful and thoughtful solutions, according to the motto: What future prospects exist for agriculture as a whole, which reform measures are to be taken at EU level and which at national level et cetera? It is therefore necessary to clarify a variety of questions. With the current reference point for the present and immediate future 1996 and 1997 I am presented with the Green Plan of the Federal Minister, with the official title "Measures of the Federal Government for Agriculture and Forestry Policy for the years 1996 and 1997". I would like to stress this. Federal Minister! I'd ask you to give me some hearing. I have tried to critically analyse this 13-page report. Unfortunately, I found little concrete, few real measures in this. This is unfortunate because the subject of income security must be the central concern of a short- and medium-term agricultural policy. As far as income security is concerned, however, I have found little in it. I will then quote you a few examples. If I say little, little to nothing concrete, then I mean that you, Mr Federal Minister, also like to refer to the EU instruments. They like to play on the EU piano, although this is actually a report by the Federal Government on the debate. Obviously, this issue is slightly to be missed. These are measures by the Federal Government, but this is always being delegated towards the EU. I could quote what you have to do with the EU, and that would be quite a slut. They are also talking about promoting the best use of EU co-financing, and they are talking a lot about the common agricultural policy. – This is all important and necessary, and we know that much has been transferred to competences, yet a margin for national design measures remains at national level. While I find in the report that business optimizations contain quality-enhancing production, this is also reflected in the old reports, in old green plans. And here's what it says: improving the market position of farms, competitive processing and marketing structures, a strong agricultural market. Is that the AMA? – Maybe there will be a staff increase again, I don't know. However, I do not find a word in this report, Mr Federal Minister, about the long-standing liberalisation of the trade regulations, about promoting direct marketing or unbundling of the food code. I can't find anything about it! It is, however, an expression of your policy. [[Abg. Wabl: Really?]] They want something different than us, that's perfectly clear. They want a dependence on these semi-governmental organizations to continue to exist. They want cementation in agriculture and the dependence of farmers on farming chambers, on raiffeisen, on AMA and similar institutions. We Liberals, on the other hand, want the independent farmer, who can act responsibly, who is well-trained, who can set up his own measures and actually act as an entrepreneur. [[Abg. Wabl: Really?]] These are two fundamentally different ideological approaches. – With this difference we will have to live, but this will offer us many more opportunities to hold discussions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plaster.]] Federal Minister! As a central point of the Green Plan, they retain more or less the policy of visa compensation with a view to further reflections at short and medium-term levels. If content is not much more than this point, then we also stay there and we go through it once in a row. Ladies and gentlemen! You know, there are four main classes of compensation payments: firstly, the EU's own compensation, in the context of the premium systems, second, the temporary degressive compensation payments – which has already been tailor-made by Mr Schwarzenberger – which are to expire in 1999. Both are measures which the GATT considers to be 'blue measures', i.e. measures with a partly trade distortive effect, which therefore have only a transitional character. Then there is a third area: direct payments to mountain and other less favoured areas. In GATT terminology, these are covered by the term "green measures", i.e., unlike the "blue measures", measures with a correspondingly low trade distortive effect. Finally, there is the fourth area, namely that of environmentally sound production processes. It is also necessary, I think, to say this clearly, because the public that is not informed in detail does not know – or hardly perceives – that there are these four categories. I would also like to make this clear at this point, because of course four different things stand behind it. These four categories of direct payments are being examined again and again with regard to their distribution effectiveness and also with regard to their distribution justice, and in December 1995, Federal Minister, there was this famous secret study, which has been kept under review until today. [[Abg. Wabl: No! It was in "daily everything"!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Not until today, but until recently. Mr. Federal Minister, you smile?- Oh, my God! – I would not smile at your place, because this is a very serious problem. The result described by Mr Gerhard Hovorka is anything but to laugh. In my opinion, it is extremely disillusioning. In any case, I do not want to laugh because I take the content of this study seriously. Federal Minister! Since this result did not come to you very much, they held it closed for so long first, second, you, Mr Federal Minister, immediately commissioned two counter-receipts following the first result. One was created by Professor Schneider of the Wifo, who broke the original report, took it quite apart, as you say, and a second review was obtained by the Bundesanstalt für Agrowirtschaft. This has also crushed the first study and ultimately said that the content of the study prepared by Hovorka is quite stupid. That was interesting to me. Federal Minister! I should like to ask you: What has moved you to order this study at Hovorka if everything is supposed to be just a pot anyway, which the two counterparts have then attested? I really wonder. What moved you to go this way first? In the end, because it did not fit in, it was said that corrective action must now be taken: The silence to the outside, the great curtain of silence. Schwarzböck knew it, I think, because one of his secretaries was waving around a bit with this study. What's in there? – Very hard some things I would like to sum up here: In the case of large differentiation by main production regions, the statement is that the levels of funding – compared with the average size of each holding – vary very strongly: the fivefold at absolute level of support for the average comparable operation in the north-east region, i.e. Marchfeld, compared to an alpine operation. So this is a comparison between companies in favor and those in disfavor. All possible types of support have been added. One can argue about whether this is serious or not – but this basic statement stands once. The second thing I would like to take up briefly: degressive compensatory payments, common agricultural policy, area payments. Overall, both types of support will bring an average of 1.7 million schilling to the average of farms with more than 100 hectares of arable land, which is 325 in number. The enterprises in the size class five to ten hectares, where a certain massaging occurs, which accounts for between 60 and 70 percent, receive 42 000 p. So 1.7 million schilling compared to 42 000 s! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Emperor: You already know that this is demagogic!]] This is not demagogic, Mr President. No, no, no, I would like to point out something. Don't fuck yourself up now! You'll hear a lot about it. As a consequence, the author, this Hovorka, demanded... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You already know that 100 hectares are more than five hectares?- Oh, my God!]] Of course I know all of this, colleague. But put the relationships. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] I want to express something specific with this. Just listen to me now – and then you can go to the speaker's desk once more, to disarm everything and say that everything is stupid, what I have said here. Now let me talk! The author of this study therefore calls for a degression of direct payments, according to the size of the firm, Mr. Federal Minister, not a rigid ceiling, as once demanded by the SPÖ, but a looping system, which I believe is correct and which has also been referred to by other scientific experts as a right and reasonable way for the future. I now admit, Minister of State, that this study is grossly simplified. But you have commissioned it, it has also been created from the point of view of mountain farms. It cannot therefore all be transferred one to one either. The system of direct payments must certainly not be compared with social aid. But one can very well compare it with economic promotion. There are also variable grinding schemes in a commercial plant, almost all types of support. We always say that the farmer is an entrepreneur and should also be regarded as such. That is why, I believe, the comparison with economic promotion is quite acceptable. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: But really not, my colleague.]] In this context, there are also these loopholes against which you are opposed, Mr Schwarzböck. We have had a number of debates already. That's what you said: This is not in question, this is communist, the Liberals can be included by the Socialists in this case. We've heard all of this. I also claim, however, that this study, which was then collected as a counter-respect of Matthias Schneider, in areas in which criticism is very strongly overdoing the skin and quite strongly exaggerating. I've got them here in front of me, and I just want to quote somethin'. In "criticism and suggestions" it is stated in Chapter 2: "The study shows serious theoretical and methodological defects, which are shown below in some examples." Schneider's right with some of what he says I admit that. But it seems to me that many things are very thick, and that is proof to me that this counter-study has been ordered because the content of the first study is politically very critical. That's how I'd describe it. Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to gradually reduce the types of support one and two within the framework of the European Union. This is also the case with Monsieur le Comissaire in Brussels on 13 March. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). One and two types of support are therefore gradually reduced. For the degressive compensation payments, there is a decommissioning plan which has been specifically fixed in Austria. Other types of support remain three and four. That is to say, the ÖPUL programme remains whatever it will do and, of course, the direct compensation of farmers in disadvantaged areas. I assume that in the course of the next agricultural reform these two remaining types of support will be reformed. Fischler also said that the 1992 reform is far from complete. This too must be followed accordingly. I can only support it; I stand by it. I believe that the 1992 agricultural reform has brought a lot into play. The famous Butterberge, Grainberge and so on have disappeared. Mrs Aumayr! You've been accusing all of this today. To this end, I must say: Of course, on the one hand, many farmers have had to give up. But would it have been an alternative to continue to sit on the Butterbergs and continue to drive an unhindered subsidisation strategy? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schöggl.]] You need to see both sides! If we continue to complement the agricultural budgets at national and EU level, this would, as it were, be the method: Never end! Of course you have to weigh. . I believe that the path of agricultural reform, the path of the common agricultural policy, was basically the right one. However, I believe that we should have this debate far more profoundly than has been the case before, best in a subcommittee. I will also ask for this in connection with existing reform requirements and also in connection with enlargement with the Eastern countries. For me, Mrs Aumayr, it is not a solution to say: Easter enlargement does not come into question! [[Abg. Aumayr: I didn't say that!]] No, you didn't say it directly, but it was a bit like that. [[Abg. Aumayr: No!]] You have to talk exactly about the conditions, you have to overcome obstacles. But your proposals certainly do not show the right way. And one must also get used to thinking over time that the EU money falls like Manna from heaven, that you just need to stop your hand, and the EU money is already there. It is true that surpluses are present, but they will be consumed for measures to combat cattle disease and similar. Federal Minister! In addition, I believe that we need a lot of things: a system of trade, the creation of direct marketing, a functioning agricultural education, a large internal reform, the ecologicalisation of the tax system and the removal of export subsidies for live animals. These are the answers from us liberals to the challenges. Federal Minister! We will not get tired of demanding that. I ask you to: If you take up some kind of suggestion, then we may be able to deal with these problems together and do not need to be constantly puzzled about what will happen next. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16113	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16156	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl! Today's debate also talks about the 1994 Green Report. I would just like to say that, as has already been pointed out, this Green Report is no longer based on the most up-to-date data, but because of some of the circumstances already mentioned, it has already been some time since the Green Report came into being in the House for the first time. Therefore, the view already has a different dimension today. However, I would like to stress that this Green Report for 1994 is an excellent reference work and information for all those involved in the development of agriculture. That is why I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry and the associated departments and departments very much for having presented a readable and good report for 1994, if we have not dealt with it until 1996. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The reason why there is no more up-to-dateness is, above all, also in the EU's accession to Austria by 1. In 1995 and in the situation as a result, it was completely changed. [[Abg. Wabl: Incredible!]] Right! Incredible! We are in a completely changed situation with regard to this report. However, in the course of today's debate, this will enable us to address some of the things that should be taken into account in future reports, and should be done, Minister of State. For example, the 1994 report does not even mention measures relating to the common agricultural policy, not even in the form of a consideration of agricultural matters. I should therefore like to ask you to ensure that the Green Report for 1995 and the following years deals with it accordingly and refers to it. In my opinion, another priority should be - I had the opportunity to comment on this in the Committee's deliberations - the question of water law and the issues relating to water as a basic food in the current situation. [[Abg. Wabl: For the Styria?]] Of course also for the Styria, but not only! Then Water may also be traded as an important product in the future, and therefore water and water law should receive a greater level of reporting overall. [[Abg. Wabl: In the Vienna election campaign we want to know!]] Another topic, which is related to the Green Report, but also to the current situation and which has already been addressed several times today, concerns support policy. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and all those who have been present in the debate on the agricultural budget and have followed the debate, know that, in the name of my group, I have already intervened with my colleagues in the political groups for the continuation of the measures in the field of support, with a view to a more fair social settlement and a redistribution within agriculture, and will continue to take action. For the last time, I spoke of an "internal solidarity" that is asked for, as the tolerance limit of social solidarity is reached very slowly. I have found this statement confirmed in an OECD report on agricultural policy, which is worth quoting in the APA of 21. The following can be read on May 1996: "Agrarian subsidies from Austria continue via EU cut. Due to the degressive compensatory payments..." It's going on in this tone. That is why I would like to say: If Mrs Aumayr here talks about the difficult situation in agriculture since EU accession, it might be very good for her to look at the OECD report and read what it actually looks like with agriculture and with the financial design within agriculture. Therefore, it can be found that: In spite of some criticisms, the Austrian agricultural policy was quite successful. What you, Mrs Aumayr, and your colleagues have regularly prophesied, obviously did not occur: Our agriculture didn't go before the dogs, it's not broken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] We have achieved one of what you and Your group colleagues have called for a very long time, very often and very, namely the admission of the market in this area. [[Abg. Aumayr: Who demanded this?]] In some of the Committee's deliberations, for example, Mr Reichhold, who is a non-insignificant agricultural policy in your area... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: It was him!]] Why do you say "was"? Just because my colleague, Aumayr, has been the first speaker? I do not think that this is a signal that Mr Reichhold has now resigned into the second row. [[Abg. Aumayr: Don't worry about us!]] But I am convinced that the future will prove that the Austrian agricultural policy continues to bring good things to agriculture and forestry. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to comment on another current point in the course of today's debate. [[Abg. Aumayr: Take a position on the mining study!]] The mining study has already been discussed by my previous speaker. [[Abg. Aumayr: And you have nothing to say?]] However, I would like to say again today that I would like to see this study submitted to a broad public, not only to the political groups in this House, because, apart from the Members in this House, there are still other interested parties to the agricultural policy and can provide this study with scientifically supported basic data. But I would now like to comment on another point that is closely related to agricultural policy, namely genetic technology. From my point of view, genetic technology can be seen in two ways. – It is clear to me that, in the field of medical research, the development of genetic technology has achieved a great deal of positive for mankind. However, genetic research is different with regard to genetically modified food or agricultural production. In this area, I believe that there is still a great need for caution. [[Abg. Wabl: What does that mean?]] For as long as it is not fully researched what effects are associated with genetically modified foods, it is absolutely impossible for me to plant and plant genetically engineered field fruits, vegetables and others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] That is why I am also a little surprised when Mrs. Aumayr spoke of "double-angerance" before. I have the "Euroconsumer" in front of me, which, for example, reports new items from Brussels to the Novel Food Regulation. However, the minutes of the European Parliament can be seen that those who cry particularly loud in Austria do not appear in the vote at all because they were not there. I read names like Dr. Klaus Lukas, Ing. Wolfgang Nußbaumer, Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer, Mag. Erich Schreiner, Mag. Karl Schweitzer – all members of the "F". And this... – Wait, that's what I'm going to do! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] These Members, who in Austria always pretend to be the only fighters for consumers, for farmers, for workers and so on, were not even present at this vote. However, I am also surprised that the ÖVP MEPs voted No to the European Parliament, although the Austrian Genetic Engineering Act contains provisions which would actually call for approval. I am totally incomprehensible that the ÖVP MEPs voted with No. Perhaps within the ÖVP club one could ask why no vote was taken in this area. I would also like to say one thing about the word "double-dwelling": Mrs Aumayr! They have said that the agricultural policy, in particular through the common agricultural policy since 1995, would be so terrible. You said, "Yet much more angry." [[Abg. Aumayr: Where?]] However, there is a document to me that long before accession to the EU in 1990, long before this "fearly" agricultural policy... [[Abg. Aumayr: At that time there was no EU, but only the EC!]] According to this document in the municipality of Alkoven in Upper Austria has a certain ing. Gerald Aumayr claims that his land will be relocated into a farm area along the B 129 to the extent of 60 000 square metres of Greenland. If already in 1990 Ing. Aumayr – I suppose you know this Mr. Ing. Gerald Aumayr – has tried to get out of agriculture without the "fearful" agricultural policy at the time when he has tried to make farmland out of his Greenland, then for me today your speeches are also an example of doubling, Mrs Aumayr!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16365	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16387	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gradwelt! I understand that it may be a thorn in your group's eyes if a private person wants to use his property after his opinion. But it still corresponds to the spirit of democracy, as we have here in Austria, that you can do with your property almost in all interests – I emphasize: almost in all matters – what you want to do. Thank God! I'd like to hold on to that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl is surprised. – If I am doing the mountain law today, I can conclude from the fact that you are not allowed to do whatever you want with your property in every respect. For Mr Ditz, who is the head of the mountain in Austria, has the right to the mountain, is very likely to have the property of other people. And that's really a cleaner!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16417	Deputies! Please have another expression!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16432	Mr President. I'm sorry! Now I come to the current subject, this Green Report. Mr Schwarzenberger! It is not a question of this Green Report being negotiated here at three months too late in this House. This has not reduced the actuality. The current situation has simply been reduced by the fact that the accession of the European Union to Austria and the Austrian farmers has fundamentally changed something to the worse. This Green Report is in fact irrelevant for the future of farmers. That is why Mr Aumayr called into question the topicality of this Green Report. In your statement that one must not be afraid of the future of chamber officials: Mr Schwarzenberger! If the ÖVP is on the row, I'm not worried about the chamber officials. But their existence does not always benefit the farmers. That's what I want to hold here. The bureaucracy that the farmers have to cope with may be beneficial to some chamber officials because they will have work in the future. But for the farmers this is more a burden. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Another statement from you really surprised me today. They want to explain to farmers and Members that, in principle, enlargement of the East must be carried out so that we can abolish socialism in these states. Mr Schwarzenberger! I ask you and your Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: What is the position here in Austria? – Here in Austria, we do not need an Easter enlargement in order to abolish socialism in Austria. The voters and the farmers will not be impressed by these excuses. I hope so, or I am sure of that. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Haider also always demands Easter expansion!]] It is not about the fundamental question of enlargement of the East! They always want to justify this with the abolition of socialism: I now have to be moderate in my way of expression. Mr President. I'm gonna hold back a little bit. But one thing I still have to say: I've heard a lot about you, but that's the summit of your statements! During my relatively short time as a Member of Parliament here in the House, ladies and gentlemen, I have had to say that many Members are always talking about their great responsibility. – In reality, however, responsibility in this state obviously does not count much. I only remember the statement of our Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky, who took over the political responsibility for the debacle "Mozart" donau ship. The taxpayer has nothing to do with this political responsibility that you assume. Because the liability is borne by taxpayers in this country. This is the real responsibility, not your flag, when you say: We take on political responsibility for something. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at the water agreement which is to be put to the vote today. This could lead to considerable costs for the Austrian taxpayers, since the underlying states, the neighbouring countries of the East, will certainly impose damage claims. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] A special scandal, Mr Wabl – I am sure you will be right – is in this context the pollution caused by the eastern blockships, which have been swirling about on the Danube for many years because of the Yugoslavia blockade; in fact, this has opened a black special waste dump on the Danube. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] This claim does not come from me. You only need to look at the newspaper reports, which are disposed of by these ships from everything here in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has known about this scandal for years. However, it has not at all contributed to the fact that this scandal is only taken nearer to the eye. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Mr Khol! We already know your funny deposits. I have already recommended it to you: ==References== April, something like that might be quite good. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I would like to congratulate you, colleague, on understanding my jokes.]] I know you're a senior teacher. But this remark is still understood. We know this dual nature, which is practiced here in the House. We liberals here in the House made the motion for a resolution that the Federal Government should ensure that the competitive disadvantages of Austrian farmers are reduced to those of the EU Member States. In this context, we also called for, among other things, the adjustment of the advance tax on flat-rate farmers. The coalition rejected this. However, in the issue, Mr Minister, I would like to expressly say that you have published, namely in the report on agriculture and forestry, on page 3, you demand that the optimization of the market position of the Austrian agriculture and forestry and the production of equal conditions of competition with the other EU Member States be a priority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] In view of this, I do not understand why the ÖVP MEPs reject our request if they demand these measures in the same breath in their government booklet or in their writing by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I would now like to focus briefly on genetic engineering, ladies and gentlemen: In this context too, there is a dual nature of the ÖVP: Because I'm already sure that genetic engineering... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! That's something completely different. In the agricultural chamber newspaper, Mr. President Schwarzböck is already in fact – even if in a gentle tone – coming up the door to genetic engineering. In the last issue, Mr President, this has already been addressed by you. That is why I am not surprised by the behaviour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this vote in Brussels. The ÖVP wants to release this genetic engineering regulation here in Austria. – Unfortunately, God will not create the fine food shop Austria, which we imagine and which we will need in the future, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16524	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the word for a maximum of 27 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16554	I have the wrong documents here. For example, on the papers lying here you can read: "Night on the Danube: Smugglers, gangsters and stranded people because of the war in the Balkans."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16581	You're wasting your speaking time, Mr. Wabl.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16596	Thank you. - It's not turned on yet. I've just been told by Klubobmann Khol. I somehow remembered that there are parliaments in which there is the establishment of a manuscript and the speech is deemed to be held. This is not possible here, because our Rules of Procedure do not yet allow this. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: We are facing a reform of the Rules of Procedure!]] Besides, you wouldn't get to hear important things, and I don't want to. Ladies and gentlemen! It's really late. I have been thinking for the first time today of this type of reform of the Rules of Procedure. I thought today that this would not be so bad at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16626	Then give me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16647	Mr President. If you promise me that the speech in the Minutes will appear to me that you will also read it, in a bright mind and with a alert mind, then I would hand it over to you. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a request here, which I would like to present to you now. It concerns measures against forest devastation by huntable game. I have been making this request since 1988. Again and again, I'll give it to the record. At that time I had a fellow fighter, Mr Helmut Wolf. At that time he still meant with anger in his face that something had to happen. And something happened: Wolf is no longer there, he is now pursuing other jobs in Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Grade: Watch out, or you'll soon be gone!]] colleague, the present is always uncertain, the future... [[Abg. Gradwelt: Especially with the Greens!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with this request, I will now read something to you. Even in the official report, it says: "The situation in the forest is also precarious. Damage caused by wild and pasture cattle as well as increasing tourist activities cause the efforts to reorganise these forests in sensitive regions, despite high financial commitment." – This is not a Green Report, but the official Parliament report, 59 of the supplements to the Stenographical Protocols. Ladies and gentlemen! At this time you should be able to make good jokes, but I am not really put on it. This motion for a resolution will certainly be supported again by the social-democratic comrades, as was already the case under Mr Wolf's leadership in the last few years. And now there is really a real forest-farmerbub: namely, Gradwelt, which will certainly support it fully. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: "The National Council wants to decide [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You must be called "Wabler"!]] The Minister of Agriculture is asked..." – That was initially Riegler, then it was Fischler, and now it is Molterer. Ladies and gentlemen! I am always polite and sought, but sometime I cried out, for even Riegler was a wilder and was therefore once in court. In Styria there is a good tradition. It was always a very fine guild.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16726	Mr President, I should like to thank But that's not the request you're supposed to read to.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16742	Mr President. I do not wish to be interrupted. [[Lively general hustle and bustle.]] I'm drinking a swallow of steiric water. [[Calls: Tax-free]] Still tax-free. Well, it would have been nice if you had said a clear word on the water tax here. This would have been very helpful to the Vienna friends in the election campaign. – I am convinced that he would have carried you out by the hand. The question would have been only what else he would have had in his hands. Ladies and gentlemen! On the motion for a resolution: "The Minister of Agriculture is asked to take immediate action within the meaning of § 16 Forestry Act. If the competent body" – please do not interrupt! – "The forestry supervision services report on the causes, nature and extent of the risk and have submitted proposals to the hunting authority and the head of the forestry supervision service are the necessary measures..." (Living cheerfulness at Abg. Wabl and in the hall.) I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16813	The signature is illegible. - Excuse me. The full motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16854	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16884	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only the advanced hour, but also because a debate on agriculture cannot be held in this House without a closer look at genetic engineering, I would like to speak and express some of what I am sure Andreas Wablunter will support. [[Abg. Aumayr: He doesn't know what he wants!]] But, I know, I've seen his speech concept from behind; I'm just sitting behind him. It is really important to me in this context to point out a number of things because it has also been tailor-made by Members of Parliament and because Mr Schwarzböck has come to Mr Firlinger and has explained to him that the EIA Members in the European Parliament voted in favour of the labelling of genetic products. The Liberals have today submitted a request for release in Tulln on the occasion of the events that have taken place. It includes a requirement for labelling in the Genetic Engineering Act, which must be clearly clear and understandable, as has already been decided by all political groups in the report "Technology Assessment in the context of genetic engineering". The EIA Members will certainly be pleased because they will not only do something about it at European level but will also support such a clear product declaration in Austria. I am glad that, from the words of Mr Gradwelt, I have to conclude, and also after your announcement, that: They have made them to Mr Firlinger – it is likely that this request is a good basis for formulating a common request in this direction, which will include a clear and understandable labelling of genetic products. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We say this above all because, especially in agriculture – that is the essential thing when it comes to agricultural policy in Austria in connection with the Green Report – genetic engineering opens up completely new possibilities that tend to contradict organic and organic farming. This is an area which must be a political decision of principle in Austria. Federal Minister! In our view, it is a question of whether we want genetic technology to be used in Austria and, as a result, to be encouraged to industrialize agriculture. We believe from the Liberals that it does not make sense to use genetic technology where market monopolies are created and secured, because we are convinced that competition should also take more place in the field of agriculture. Genetic technology is an area which is more important for industrialization and therefore, in our view, is contrary to the policies we are pursuing in this country in the field of agriculture. However, we also believe that measures which ultimately lead to a higher use of plant protection products and thus tend to lead to a higher load of soil or water should not be taken, because this too is something which does not correspond to what we are trying to achieve from the political point of view. That is why I am saying this, ladies and gentlemen, because the genetic engineering law – which is also contained in our proposal – does not include any liability rules for damages that can ultimately occur when he tries, as well as he may be meant. We are convinced – and the releases in Tulln prove that too – that bureaucratic barriers cannot stop illegal acts. The only measure that can lead to a fair balance of interests is that very rigorous liability rules are laid down in the Genetics Act. A person who promises to benefit economically from a measure shall also be liable for any damage. This is a fair distribution, and we also believe that there should be reliefs for the injured in proving the damage, not in a form that is only tailored to genetic engineering. We have used a legal character here – including that contained in our genetic engineering application – which you already find in the Forestry Act, specifically in § 54 of the Forestry Act, where it is only a matter of having to prove probability and of being able to free yourself again through the evidence of counter-opportunity. This is a legal institution which has already proven itself in the Forest Act, and we believe it should also take place in the field of genetic engineering. I do not want to address our request in more detail, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a self-evident request that will still be discussed in committee. Although we have tabled this proposal as a Liberal request, I am already saying that we are very interested in starting a discussion in this regard in order to come to a common innovation in the genetic engineering law. I would like to comment briefly on another area in connection with forestry. It should not be mentioned that the negotiations for the Donauen National Park have now begun. There are some basic decisions missing here. It seems that there is no political agreement on this point, and I can therefore make a request which will be even more negligent, even to these agenda items. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that the Federal Government can do everything it can to ensure that the Donauen National Park can be implemented this year. I believe that here too, as the Austrian Federal Forest is concerned, Mr Molterer will have to speak a very important word. Ladies and gentlemen! The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that such a request would give us the opportunity to prove that, in Austria too, nature conservation and the establishment of national parks are an important concern in politics and that it is not only in terms of such declarations of principle as we have seen them in recent months, but also in terms of political cooperation, when negotiations are under way, that we are trying to end the planned process. I would like to invite you very cordially to give your consent to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16958	Mr Wabl's request concerning measures to combat forest devastation by huntable game and by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüller on the agreement under Article 15a B-VG on the establishment of a national park in the Danube region near Vienna and east of Vienna are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mr Schwarzböck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party, in its national policies and by our MEPs on genetic technology and labelling, has meant that the Austrian People's Party would have a contradictory attitude in the field of genetic engineering and labelling of food. I should like to make it clear here that the use of the EIA MEPs has made it possible for the European Parliament, unlike a Council decision and a Commission proposal, to demand and enforce the genetic labeling of foodstuffs. It is clear, I believe, that our line is in agreement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, in view of the importance and contradiction expressed in several speeches in today's debate, I would like to address the issue of distribution justice and the ability of studies dealing with the new EU agricultural system, the common agricultural policy and the national objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever it really is about the Austrian agriculture and forestry and the Austrian peasantry, will not avoid such a discussion. I would ask you, however, to take this debate on agricultural distribution justice not entirely isolated from other political events and from opinions on general issues of policy and distribution justice. Mr Firlinger! I just have to refer to your statement. I cannot follow you if you compare agricultural support with a very modern approach towards the charging of modern environmental services, which have been positively adopted by the farmers in the new programme, in the 1995 ÖPUL, with investment promotions in the field of economic promotion. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Economic promotions!]] In the meantime, you have said that you think that even in investment promotion projects of general economic promotion, start-up promotions, corresponding comparable objectives, would be comprehensible. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: For example, interest support!]] This too cannot satisfy me, because the approaches that are based on these studies and which you are dealing with basically involve limits which we will not otherwise discuss in any area of policy. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You have to talk!]] You know that the SPÖ last autumn spoke of a comparative income of 270 000 s for employed persons. You have quoted several times a study that starts with the degression at 10 hectares. That is to say, you are setting limits on agriculture, which will otherwise not be taken into a professional field. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's not true!]] In fact, this is totally beyond our reach. In principle, one can of course discuss such objectives, but it is really defying what is to be achieved with these objectives in certain areas. The word 'basic security' will be put into the mouth, and I can certainly discuss it when we talk about basic security. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The question is how much I put on the tariff!]] However, it will slowly become adventurous, given the structural starting point of Austrian agriculture in the harsh competition of the internal market, to talk about basic safeguards for degressions already beginning in small businesses with 10 hectares. At the same time – you should have read through the study – it is believed that in addition to this basic guarantee for quota security, for quantity control in production, for external trade protection in the WTO could be waived. I therefore say quite openly: When we think about these proposals and deal with them in some way, we are basically moving towards a policy that is devoted exclusively to basic social security measures for agriculture, and otherwise we are engaged in the liberal competition of a WTO, which is ultimately also characterised by agricultural systems, which would be lost for our social order, for our cultural tradition and multifunctional responsibility in Austrian agriculture, not only in the interests of farmers but also in the general interest of the general population. Those who represent such concepts must be blamed in an objective discussion that it is essentially about political alibi farmers in a reserve function – comparable to the Indian reservations in America – that is, a change in society and not a guarantee of the future for farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr Firlinger! I believe that such an objective would in no way be compatible with the basic values set by you in politics. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you – and I believe that Mr Gradwelt's speech was quite a signal in this direction – to conduct this discussion objectively, also in various aspects, but as a representative of agriculture – I am a practicing farmer – please admit one thing: It simply cannot work that, in the event of a very strong change in the political situation that we have brought about with the accession of the EU, an important and indispensable profession is completely isolated from the general political debate and demands from it conditions which no one can fulfil and which have not yet been fulfilled satisfactorily. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Gradwelt! It has been pointed out several times by the Minister; I am convinced that the Federal Minister will do so today. Because this study is in diminutive cases, it must be compared with scientifically substantially developed studies. I have to tell you: We can only achieve one thing, namely to irritate the public and, in some cases, to produce a second horror scenario under the scientific coat in addition to the horror scenario of Mrs Aumayr. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I am sure, because of the principle of your speech today, that this is not in our mutual interest. I therefore invite you to hold this debate in such a way that, in accordance with other political practices, we can continue to pursue it at an appropriate level of matter for agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17100	The next speaker is Mr Koller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17121	High house! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The figures on migration from agriculture are known to all. Mr Schwarzenberger! The figures that my colleague, Aumayr, has mentioned are not horror numbers. On average, emigration is 5 percent, and for the young farmers, the future farm heritage, the number is twice as high, as it is even 10 percent. This very situation is worrying. The Styrian Chamber and also the labour market service have installed a foundation against farm mortality. According to Joanneum research, 17 400 jobs will be lost in agriculture in Styria by the year 2000. 54 persons have currently participated in this project, with the overall project of the Foundation comprising 250 people. I say: It's just a drop on a hot stone! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the reform of the common agricultural policy: Here too, the workplace farm must be the focus. Promotions to farms must be designed in such a way that the human labour force employed is adequately rewarded. Consideration should be given to the competitive disadvantages of low-area farms as well as the difficulties of management in mountain areas. Promotions and transfer payments must be primarily dependent on ecological criteria. We also call for debureaucratisation and simplification of the implementation of the promotion. There must be no class struggle. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== A Hungarian delegation, the Hungarian Committee on Agriculture, was present here in Parliament in May. Hungary wants to go to the EU immediately and without transitional provisions. Hungary's statements were: Hungarian legislation seeks to meet all the requirements of the EU. In the Committee on Agriculture, which dealt with the forest report, I asked, as the phytosanitary checks were abolished, whether there were problems with fuelwood imports, where small trucks from Slovakia and Hungary were imported into Austria. Following an equal request from the EU Parliament, the answer was as follows: The Commission is aware of the danger posed by imports into the European Community, provided that no plant health checks are carried out. The Commission shall take note of the facts and shall request the Office for Veterinary Hygiene and Plant Health Monitoring to follow them. Minister! You have dealt with this problem in the Committee as 'chamber imports'. The Commission, on the other hand, takes this very seriously. The savings package also concerns the Higher Federal Training Institute for Alpine Agriculture in Raumberg-Trautenfels. There the teaching forest is to be sold around 20 million schilling. It will not, however, achieve a reorganisation of the state budget. In my opinion, this is the initial sale of the training bases. School business and projects are at risk. The Raumberg Department Committee has written a petition and a letter to Commissioner Fischler, but not to Brussels, but to the Ministry of Agriculture. Curiously, the letter came back unopened on the grounds that Fischler was abandoned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where to? Where did he go?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a press release of the Styrian Chamber of Agriculture, Farm Chamber President Gerhard Wlodkowski and Chamber Director Dr. Kopetz raised the demand for a doubling of the EU Rinder premium and the introduction of a premium for female cattle. The same request was made on 14 May. In the main committee in May, the Council adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States However, this was rejected by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Incredible!]] That is why I am making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call on all the farmers' representatives, but in particular those of the EIA to work for the concerns of the peasantry, to support the cattle farmers in the very difficult situation at present, and not to be representatives of the government and of the Minister. This is not a mess, as you always claim, but it is an indication of facts, facts and figures. They always say that the farmer has to be encouraged. However, you will not succeed in giving the farmer courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17240	The motion for a resolution on EU compensation for Austrian cattle farmers has been tabled in accordance with business rules and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17268	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced hour, the previous evening only a few brief comments on the forest report. I believe that this forest report is an excellent document and a very important instrument for assessing the state of our forest. Austria is known to be the most wooded country in Central Europe, and for this reason an in-depth state analysis becomes even more important in us. Ladies and gentlemen! Our forest is in a very critical, very alarming state, although, as in the previous year, the forest areas are increasing and there are increases in wood stocks. This is a very strange situation, but quantity is not equivalent to quality. This study clearly shows that the damage to traffic is increasing enormously. If about 80 percent of total rejuvenation is lost, as is the case with us, the alarm bells must ring. This problem is explained by the fact that almost 20 percent of the total forest area is protected forest and this forest is affected by a quarter of the decay. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our forests are outdated, the natural rejuvenation cannot take place. This problem also shows the Austrian forest inventory clearly and unmistakably. Due to the massive bites, no natural rejuvenation of the forest can take place. I say again and again, even if the hunters then appear against me: It is not only sheep and cows that bite as often as they like to be claimed, but it is, of course, primarily the wild that does the damage to them. This means that even in hunting management, it is essential, regardless of whether it fits the Waidmen or not. It is now also a problem of wild density. If we do not counter this, the problem will not be solved; Mr Wabl is right. It is therefore necessary to ask, in this context, how useful it is to feed hunting farmers, for example, tons of beet. I can prove, by means of an example, that this is actually done. It's just an encounter when at 1 800 meters altitude a truck with beet full of loaded trucks rides, so that the feeding can be carried out. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: I don't know!]] That's the wrong way. This procedure is simply prohibited. Mr Wabl – now I quote him for the second time – has shaped the sentence: There's a girl taking place for a foreign reason. Mr Wabl is right, because this procedure cannot be described differently. Ladies and gentlemen! We can go through and start the best conservation forest programs, they will not work if the wild density does not decrease. For this thesis I can give you examples of where it works, examples where in shelter forests either the wildlife was drastically reduced or where you really worked with wild fences. In these areas the Jungwald has a chance to come up. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to decide where to set priorities: If we want satisfied hunting guests, do we want satisfied hunting tenants or do we want a semi-healthy forest that can be preserved by its own power? I believe that sound, reasonable forest management must be a priority. I think we all agree on this point, especially when it comes to a protected forest. Because there is security to ensure security for a affected population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17305	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17327	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to use this debate on agriculture to bring in some thoughts on the current issue of genetic technology, especially our position and our opposition to the use of genetic technology in agriculture and the attempts at release. In the next few years, we believe that a general policy decision will be taken in agriculture. We are still faced with the situation that 50 000 to 60 000 jobs in agriculture will be lost over the next few years if not decisive measures are taken. More and more farmers are still forced to give up their farms. In this context, there will be not only ecological but, of course, social and cultural consequences. It is therefore certainly necessary in this area to take a very comprehensive view. And as in questions of agriculture as a whole, such a view is necessary, it is also necessary in the matter of genetic engineering. This is not just a question of freedom of research. It can also not only be a matter of purely scientific concern, but also of ethical and social concern, as well as of the extent to which one can simply allow certain trends and certain experiments. We do not at all question the need for genetic engineering in the field of medicine and cancer research to be applied in this field not only for research purposes, but also in practice. There is no doubt that the use of genetic engineering in agriculture is completely different. There, according to our and my convictions, it has lost nothing at all. And it is still incomprehensible to me that you learn nothing from events like the BSE scandal, in which it became visible that it is against nature when you feed ruminants with meat. Similarly, if you want to plant a silk caterpillar into an earthen apple or into a cell, it is against nature, so that you can use it not industrially, but also as food. It's crazy to plant the gene of a paranut in the soybean. There are many examples, not only in the plant, but of course also in the animal sector, with which one can show that it is not only a matter of moral and ethical issues that we all have to keep up as experimental rabbits. Because no doubt – this shows all the investigations – is not at all an estimate of the risk that comes to us. The first studies carried out in the world-wide release tests already show that all critical warnings were completely correct. There have been crossovers. There has been a far larger pollen flight of supposedly sterile plants, over distances of not 200 meters, such as some feared, but far over 2 kilometers. Indeed, there have been obstacles to other fields that had nothing to do with these release attempts at all. In this area there are risks and many open questions. There is now a need in Austria for a clear sign, especially in the decision-making phase, and for a concrete rejection of release attempts and the application of genetic engineering in agriculture. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to stress once again that we are not concerned with dissuading research in general, nor with research in the field of plant genetics; of course, this is also to be done in Austria in the laboratory. We are concerned solely with the issue of release, for which we want an immediate stop and above all the initiative of Austria together with other European countries, so that not only in Austria, but also in Europe a discussion arises. The second motion for a resolution, which I would like to make in this context, concerns organic farming. We are convinced that it is not possible to use genetic engineering on the one hand in agriculture and on the other hand to talk about organic farming on the other. All the farmers we have been discussing over the last few weeks and months say that if the trend continues, there will undoubtedly only be more seeds from genetically modified organisms in 10 to 15 years. They say that the supply of organic seed will be one of the key components of the transition from industrial agriculture to organic farming in the next few years and decades. I would therefore like to make the second request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I conclude by saying: It was only today that a survey was presented, which I believe to be very credible, which shows that the vast majority of Austrians are consistently opposed to the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. More than 80 percent reject release attempts. More than 90 percent require 100 percent labelling and far better information than before. We should also see this as a task and as an opportunity for Austria that we are really playing a pioneering role at European level. I have today taken the floor of Mr Gradwelt's speech that there is no doubt the possibility of achieving a wider alliance in this House for a real release stop in Austria. I very much hope that, on the part of the ÖVP, not only when it comes to a photo of Mr Molterer on the one hand and Mr Bartenstein on the other side in the "Kronen-Zeitung", there is suddenly enough courage to sign a bite on popular against herbicides-resistant maize, but otherwise make a withdrawal. [[Abg. Kiss: What are you doing?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You also like to see your photo in the "Kronen-Zeitung"! And I also like to see your photo!]] What are you so excited about, Mr. Khol? They are also depicted in the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung). Mrs. Fekter's photo was also in the "Kronen-Zeitung". I have nothing against it, either, if Mr. Molterer is pictured in the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) and signed against the release attempt of herbicid-resistant maize. I just call for a consistent attitude. On the one hand, when it's popular, you can't be against something, and on the other hand, if no big paper starts a campaign, you can't take a different position. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] We have seen in recent days that on the part of the Social Democrats there is a much greater willingness to stand up for a moratorium of release attempts, whereas on the part of the EIA there is quite a pressure to prevent a general stop of release attempts in this country. I hope the impression is deceptive. I hope that we will, in fact, be able to carry out an appropriate survey in Parliament soon, and I hope that it will be the result of such a genetic engineering survey in Parliament that for many years we will refrain from trying to release genetically modified food in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17434	The two motions for resolutions, which have been read, are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are under negotiation. Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17458	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very rare that we have a chance to discuss this extensive agricultural package intensively, just as it is today that the Liberal Party's request, which is quite unnecessarily urgent, has been playful. I'm sorry. It is precisely the issues that are on the agenda today that should be discussed in detail. Today, we would have had the opportunity to discuss this extensively, to highlight the past and the future and to see agriculture comprehensively, because agriculture is more than the country's management. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on two points: agriculture and the environment, agriculture and water. Farmers are said to be organic and organic – this is announced in many headlines and Sunday speeches – and to protect water and nature. I'll bet you do that. Ladies and gentlemen! However, when it comes to the implementation of sewage sludge, this question is not asked. Then the land and land of the farmer should be the disposal site of modern society, for cost reasons, without regard to what happens later. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you get to mind the article of the German newspaper I have here, ladies and gentlemen, then you know that the insurance industry estimates the sewage and waste composts more than the nuclear risks. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that, as a result, no insurance company worldwide is willing to cover these risks even when paying the highest premiums and granting insurance protection? The loan values of land and land in Germany have also been devalued by 40 percent, because the issue of pollutants is blasphemous. Large food groups – especially in the food sector of children – are not willing to buy products from farmers that let sewage sludge spread to their fields. There is a great risk here, and we are invited not to use land as a deposit, but to protect farmers with their land and land so that they can also comply with the task of protecting groundwater, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is convenient to use the agricultural soil as a deposit. A small example: In a small association of around 20,000 people equal to the population, there is so much sewage sludge that those farmers who make it can save 2 million shillings of costs per year. For this would cost to dispose of or burn the sewage sludge of 20,000 people's equivalents. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore call for the following very strongly: As long as the question of liability and insurance is not resolved, there must be no further delivery of sewage sludge on agricultural soil! Ladies and gentlemen! On the point of agriculture and the environment: The Austrian farmers are to be ecologically efficient. If we look at agriculture in Europe, we can see that Austria has installed the most comprehensive environmental programme and has a pioneering role in the European Union in the ecologicalisation of agriculture. 70 percent of all businesses participate in the ecologisation programme. Around 80 per cent of the area under management is covered by this programme. Austria is far above all other EU countries, according to the number of farms and by area. In this way, Austria has already set standards in the first year of its membership, which can be seen. The number of organic farms – as can be seen from the Green Report – is about 16 000. That's about 8 percent of the managed area in Austria. In Tyrol and Salzburg, the share is already 30 percent. Nearly 38 000 farms abandon certain income-enhancing assets. On individual land, almost 80 000 farmers who farm crops have not been able to obtain income-enhancing resources, and in the countryside there are at least about 45 000. These are figures which show that the Austrian farmer is seriously concerned that agriculture is to be carried out ecologically and biologically, that he sees an objective in the protection of soil and soil and in the protection of groundwater, that it is worth being pursued in the interests of society as a whole. – We should continue to support farmers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17527	The next speaker is Mr Grabner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17549	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak on the forest report in my capacity as a member of the Committee on Agriculture. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: For mountain biking?]] Mr. Klubobmann! You just need to admit a little bit to your country captain, then the problem would have been done for a long time! In principle, I am concerned with finding a system for the satisfaction of all partners for forest owners, tourism, communities and mountain bikers. I would just like to point out that there is no such thing as nothing going on at all. Currently there is a cycle network of 6,000 kilometres in Austria. Many of these ways exist because of private economic contracts. In the Stubaital, for example, silent tolerance exists on the condition that cyclists behave respectfully and responsibly. Ladies and gentlemen! Nobody's been shown there yet! There are plenty of examples of cooperation between forest owners and local tourism organisations, or the countries that I have already reported in my last speech during the debate on the structural adjustment package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I don't like... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are the ones who constantly say that something has to be done for tourism in Austria. There is a possibility in this area. I've already said: Ask your head of state in Tyrol, but also ask your Federal Minister Ditz, who is equally concerned about the problem, because he knows that we can only help tourism in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot afford that today almost every German biker magazine is being warned of holidays in Austria, while thousands of mountain bikers travel on Lake Garda in the summer. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why?]] Because they're in trouble because they can't drive! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Where?]] Summer fresheners in Austria... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There are 2 600 kilometers of cycling trails in Salzburg!]] You only need to join our request, then the problem for the future is done! Our tourism will not come true without the creation of opportunities for mountain bikers. As part of my speech on the structural adjustment package, I have given you some figures and data and today I would like to mention some further facts and facts about cycling, and I can rely on explanations of a new diploma thesis. 24 percent of holidaymakers in Austria cycle – at least case by case – during their holidays. The popularity of cycling also shows guest surveys in Germany. Thus, 6 percent of Germans want to cycle on vacation, while for example only 1.2 percent want to go skiing. – Was written in 1995... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] Listen to me, that would be good for you. You're always talking about the economy, but unfortunately you're in a lot of trouble with this problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] I'll be right there. When some 560 000 bicycles were sold in 1995, only 330 000 pairs of skis were sold during the same period. Bike tourism is not cheap tourism. Of the cyclists on the Tauernradweg 58 percent have household income of over 28 000 S per month. For this I can only write the headline of an article on mountain biking in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" (Salzburger Nachrichten) of 20. Cite April of this year: "Raddriver – first known, now sought after guests". Ladies and gentlemen! Let us look at the structure of the forest properties in Austria. The Austrian Federal Forests own about 15 percent of the forest, a relatively large part of it is protected forest. The holdings of the main association of agricultural and forestry holdings in Austria, which are organized by farms with more than 200 hectares, are owned by 32 percent of the forest area. The rest, about 53 percent, are small and medium-sized assets. It is hard to see from this structure that solutions will not be easy to find and, above all, must be regionally tailored. The Federal Government has a very important role to play in creating a clear, manageable and practical framework for all. Ladies and gentlemen! Because of our proposal for an initiative, there have been some words. One that is particularly positive to me was a broadcast of the main association of agricultural and forestry holdings in Austria, which – I quote literally – is positive in terms of a targeted and orderly opening, provided that a contractual basis is created, with liability and insurance being clarified. – I am entirely of the same opinion. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is what we stand for!]] Finally, I would like to sum up. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We have 2 600 kilometers of cycling trails in Salzburg!]] It's all right! If we regulate this by law, we will have no difficulties. Please speak to your Minister, Mr Ditz, and he will also tell you that this problem needs to be solved. I can say, on the basis of my own experience, that we will have to do a lot of things in the future because we have market opportunities for tourism in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Super!]] Thank you for your approval, Mr Klubobmann. In order to solve the liability issues on forest roads and mountain biking, forest owners, municipalities and tourism representatives must sit at a table. It is about designing and implementing custom models for each region. Legal uncertainty must be avoided and legal consequences clearly defined. I invite all political groups to cooperate so that we can solve the problem in the near future in the interests of cyclists, the economy and tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17708	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17729	Mr President. High house! The 1994 agricultural report is an interesting and now historical document on how agriculture in Austria was achieved before accession to the EU. In the meantime, much has happened: GATT negotiations are beginning to take place, and EU accession has taken place. Because of the unexpectedly high price cuts, the farmers in the mountain area are now using concrete and justified fears of existence. Price decreases in milk, fattening and breeding livestock show farmers that they will no longer be able to obtain any income from their products in the future. Other services of the farmers in the mountain area, such as the permanent protection of the alpine settlements, the sustainable maintenance of the countryside, forests, recreation areas, the high alpine regions, will hardly be paid off financially. It is therefore important for the conservation of rural family farms in the mountain area to introduce a base amount, the consistent implementation of the Europe Agreement of the Government Parties and the adequate allocation of the support measures for agriculture and forestry, also with a view to ensuring the optimum use of EU co-financing. The continuation of the ecologicalisation of agricultural production, the creation of competitive processing and marketing structures and effective educational work in rural areas must be forced. I would like to expressly reject the use of hormones in the animal mast and in milk production. It is also absolutely necessary to warn against the use of genetic engineering methods in food production. Changes in this direction, purely with the aim of maximizing profits, are a mistake. Perhaps we may feel women more often where there are limits that can no longer be exceeded. Nature is often late, but it always avenges itself. In the 1960s, we were praised by Engelsungen for the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We women were skeptical at the time, too. And since the Chernobyl accident, we know how terrible it can be if man plays the sorcerer. There is no scientist today who knows about the long-term consequences of the use of genetic engineering in food production. Therefore, caution and careful handling of our livelihoods are appropriate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must discuss and implement a new system of mining promotion offensively. However, it is not very helpful and helpful to call here – like Klubobmann Kostelka, for example – for the class struggle and for the envy of the farmers. Before that, the honourable Member spoke about the tolerance of society in terms of the promotion of farmers. I would just like to say: There is also a tolerance limit for farmers. We cannot accept further loss of income! The agricultural subsidies are not social grants, they are not gifts either. They're a bill of performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The beneficiaries of the current development are consumers who have to spend less money on their basic food than ever before. If, as I have recently read, six farmers in Styria give up cattle farming every day, I do not want to call it "farmers' deaths". Because the farmer doesn't die, he's just looking for another job. The latter, however, means damage to the whole country and to the whole society, especially in the mountain region, because the areas that are no longer managed are stunned. Now a word for mountain biking or mountain biking: The Socialists' request is therefore unacceptable to us, because it has been rejected, on two essential points, namely the maintenance and the question of liability, to address more precisely. I believe that there should be a solution in this area soon. That is why the municipalities, the tourist community and forest owners must set up themselves, find contractual regulations and, in agreement, establish a road network, which is then available for the mountain cyclists. Especially in the high alpine area, not every way is suitable for this sport. In my opinion, an agreement can only be reached if the interest in opening the way takes over the maintenance and the associated liability. - Anything else would be a kind of expropriation. Agriculture is moving in times. We must implement all the measures already mentioned in order to be prepared against the ruinous price pressure and after the degressive compensatory payments have expired, so that farms can be secured in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17805	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17827	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, 1994 was a good year for Austrian agriculture. Final production has increased as has the share of national income. Although the income loss from 1993 could not be fully compensated, nevertheless income increased by 11 percent. A large proportion of this development is certainly attributable to the situation in wine-growing. For example, wine harvest was 40 percent greater than 1993, but prices could be kept stable. The commitment of Austrian winegrowers to quality has paid off. Our wines enjoy an excellent reputation worldwide. This gives our winegrowers the chance of higher value added and economic success. As a result, additional investments and modernisation are also possible in manufacturing. This is also understood by job security in agriculture, namely the creation of businesses for competition and external trade. With the opening of new markets, trade relations naturally gain momentum. Some progress has already been made in 1994 with a view to accession to the EU. For example, exports rose by almost 17 percent compared to 1993. I am convinced that the Austrian farmers are aware of their responsibility for a natural habitat and will continue to deliver healthy and high-quality food to the tables of the Austrians. However, the 1994 Green Report shows us not only positive developments. In the area of income distribution, for example, the negative trend has continued. For example, 10 percent of businesses already have over 30 percent of income! This is a number that may be nothing special in other sectors of the economy, but because of the high share of public funds, agriculture has a special position. Here the public hand is required to distribute its resources fairly, namely the means of the general public. First of all, this means strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises and, secondly, increasing direct support and thirdly, increasing the orientation of ecological criteria. This will ensure sustainable farming, to which we must confess to Social Democrats. We want smaller farmers to continue to have the opportunity to order their land and manage their meadows. We want there to be a maintenance of the diverse cultural landscapes in the future too. All of this is our concern because we are aware of the importance of a farm-structured agriculture for landscape care in our country. That is why we Socialists acknowledge that these benefits will also be paid off. We are in favour of a fair distribution of funds, because the future of Austrian farmers is a concern for us. The hard work of our farmers is a capital that is optimistic to me; it is optimistic that we remain a farming farm – with all its advantages – with all its advantages.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17875	The next speaker is Mr Schrefel. - Please, honourable Member!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17896	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Wabl is now back in the hall, a word to him. Dear colleague! You've gotten into a deed for almost midnight to shoot off forest waste by wild game. But this shot was a pipe-creper, because at this time, at midnight hour, you don't give up a shot at this light. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] For me, however, the forest means more than a Disney land in the wild park or, Mr. Grabner, a sports arena for the leisure society. For me, the forest is habitat and home for all citizens of this state. The 1994 forest status report for Austria draws a differentiated picture of the state of the forest. On the one hand, the forest has increasing forest areas, wood stocks, increases of deciduous and milded forests, but on the other hand, the damage to the forest by game, air pollution and the situation of the protected forest is worrying. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And also the mountain bikers!]] The situation of the protected forest – the mountain bikers will be treated later – is precarious. Ladies and gentlemen! Ageing, wild damage as well as increasing tourist activities make a rehabilitation of this sensitive forest region fall. A significant part of the cause of new forest damage contributes to air pollution, which is scientifically detectable. A key role is the use of air pollutants from various sources. They are often transported over long distances before they descend on forest and soil. Forest protection must therefore be seen cross-border. Measures to prevent damage shall be carried out. For example, the so-called East Aid has succeeded in forcing environmental measures in our neighbouring countries. A significant synergy effect has been achieved with relatively low resources. I am thinking of the last debate on the environment: The closure of four coal-fired power plants in the eastern neighbouring countries saves 230 000 tonnes annually. A comparison: Austria produces only 75 000 tonnes of emissions. In 1994, major damage, especially in the deep spruce stocks, was also detected by the so-called pest infestation. Around one tenth of the fell timber was caused by forced use of birch beetle infestation, which already caused major damage in 1992/93. A total of 1.7 million solid meters of shady were attacked in 1994. The figures for 1995 are not yet known, but 1995 was also a record year in terms of shady wood. In addition, there were major environmental damage caused by snow pressure and maturation last winter. In the forest district of Lower Austria alone, an estimated 600 000 solid metres of forest population were damaged. Today I read that it was 700 000 feet in Carinthia. Short to the yield of our forest: The positive economic development also brought a slight recovery to the forestry industry in 1994, but at an extremely low level. However, the improved yield situation – partly due to higher production, partly through better raw wood prices – needs to be considered more inconvenient. Increased revenues from the sale of wood and intensive rationalisation measures have improved the income of forestry farms, but the high fixed costs nevertheless led to a negative operating result for most of the forestry farms. The forest creates jobs directly and indirectly for up to 340 000 people in this country, although the number of forestry professionals is constantly falling; we recorded only 4 700 forestry professionals in 1994. A large part of the forest work is for farmers. There jobs are difficult to obtain because of the high use of family labour. However, the income creation of forest-rich agricultural holdings constitutes an essential support for agricultural incomes. The forest economy is a hugely important industry through its extensive range of services, whose economic significance cannot be measured solely in terms of the contribution of the wood industry to the gross domestic product. The maintenance of this industry means maintaining the multifunctionality of the mountain or mountain regions, which would otherwise mean loss of income in these regions and would not be acceptable for the people. We find ourselves in a new field of tension with regard to the multifaceted use of the forest by the leisure and recreation society. What one's joy is suffering the other. For example, what pleases a relatively small group of real mountain bikers brings problems to many others. Forest routes are mainly operating and working sites, transport routes and no sports facilities. The full release would be a forced intervention in property law. Also the reference to the use of public funds for the development of forestry roads is not yet a legitimation for free use. At this point I would like to give an example: If I do not get a place in the hotel or in the restaurant, I am therefore not entitled to enter a sponsored home of a citizen and to settle there. This would be an approximate comparison with the use of public funds in the development of transport roads. However, in order to meet the needs of these athletes and the tourism industry, I believe that a market economy solution is preferable to a legal solution. The problem of forest and game is another subject that needs to be illuminated by another side. To find here only a wild problem would be wrong. Rather, the human factor and the fact that the habitat for the wild is increasingly narrowed should be included in the consideration. Due to the permanent distress and harassment, the wild game is forced to change its habits in life and nutrition, resulting in so-called wild damage. Man takes the right, whenever he wants, to penetrate into the living and bedroom of the wild. It is impossible to meet the demand to release the forest for sports and leisure activities while at the same time fulfilling the fire in order to ensure that the wildlife is right. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Frevel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The forest is a habitat that today, more than ever, has to fulfil multifunctionality and tasks, but whose survival is influenced by more and more negative factors. The 1994 forest report is a great reference work and contains far more than it would actually be the legal obligation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17955	Mrs Sophie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17980	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing the Green Report today, I would like to focus briefly on the situation of the miners. In Austria we have 99 352 mining plants. The Styria stands third with 17 795 companies in Austria. In 1993, 1 054 million Schillings were available for the whole of Austria. In 1994 it was 168 million schilling. The country of Styria was planned for 218.8 million Schilling in 1994 for mining aid. At first glance, this seems to be quite a lot, but these grants are divided into the individual mining yards, then an average amount of about 10,000 p.m. is left on a mining farm. Direct payments to the miners will mainly help to maintain the functioning of the mountain areas, thus contributing to ensuring the interests of the life of the entire Austrian population. By granting direct grants, the miners have the opportunity to cope with difficult times and not to have to settle immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to focus briefly on organic farming, as I believe that this is linked to a consistent quality orientation and Austria has great opportunities in this sector within the European Union. The number of bio-farms supported rose from around 300 farms in 1990 to around 12 000 farms in 1994. This is an increase of almost forty times! In order to ensure the quality of organic products, all organic farms must be subject to a control recognised by the head of state. This guarantees an impeccable and consistent quality orientation. The grant to organic farmers increased from 1993 to 1994. However, in order to maintain the high quality standard, this grant must be increased even further. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that there is still a lot to be done for the miners in order to make life easier for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we Social Democrats will continue to promote a fairer distribution system of grants. Not the strong one, but the weak one needs our support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18034	The next word comes from Mr Wabl. This is the second word. – Deputies! Your remaining speaking time: 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18055	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With the simultaneousity of events, namely the state of mind and the state of things we are talking about, it is often problematic in this House. Mr Schrefel brought me back to reality when he spoke to the tube recorder. Mr Schrefel, I have no objection to your arguments, if you say that the problem with the wild and the wild has become more acute because people go into the forest or believe that they have to use the forest as it happens to them. There is a very massive discussion of some sports in this regard, as the colleague of the Social Democrats also described in detail. Mr Schrefel! One thing you, as a member of a government party, have to speak for years in the forest report of wild waste damage and that there are no improvements in many areas, that farmers suffer massively from the fact that there is no natural rejuvenation, that the shale damage is unacceptable, but that: You have to enforce this one or the other! I agree, if you say that we need to extend the habitat of deer and wild animals, but then please say how you want to do this. For me, the expansion of the habitat for game is not a problem. But in order to achieve this, either the firing plans must be fulfilled or the people are kept away from certain areas of the forest. However, you cannot speak here each time for those lobbys you are just representing and from which you assume to get most votes. The forest report speaks a clear language, and we have talked for years about doing something in this area. You cannot refuse to take action here. That is why this request is so important. . I am actually grateful to you for bringing me back to reality with your speech. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to address briefly the problem of the National or State Forest or the Federal Forest – as always said – because Mr Firlinger made a long request in connection with the exclusion during the last debate. That may be great in your eyes. But it must be discussed, ladies and gentlemen. The various functions of the Federal Forests are to be preserved, and the utility, protection, welfare and recovery effects are crucial. What construction is then found to maintain these functions will hopefully result from a constructive discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been today a speech by Mr Schwarzböck, who has made me very thinkful in one area, Mr Schwarzböck, criticised colleagues Firlinger in connection with his interpretations of the study, which is kept so strictly secret. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Me too!]] In the meantime, she's not so secret anymore, but she's already with you, colleague Firlinger, but there's a problem with this: They will not solve the problem of agriculture with a basic guarantee. 10 000 s for each adult farmer or for every adult farmer will be insufficient. Even if Mr Moser's social plans come along with the interceptors, that will not be the case. Mr Firlinger! I say this a little polemic, but Mr Schwarzböck has replied very correctly, he meant: If you really mean it seriously with what you say, and actually believe that what you have heard in your discussion is distribution justice, and want to enforce your proposal without outside protection, without quotas, then you will indeed have only reserve farmers in the future – that is where Mr Schwarzböck is right – in future. What I really think is true of Mr Schwarzböck's speech, however, is that it has not yet been said in the EIA that, although the agricultural economy is different from the other economic sectors, economic laws as in all other economic sectors are basically true. If there are different social conditions, it will not work in all other economic areas without external protection. This is a liberal illusion, which only creates war in world trade, Mr Firlinger, and nothing else. We already have this war in far-reaching areas. But one thing is already going on: On the one hand, you are opposed to the principle of foundry, on the other hand, you are pleading for the largest state supply action I have ever heard of: This is a supply action of around 560 billion schilling, if I count on average only 7 000 s per head and nose of Austria. The vision-based intention of Mr Kier is excellent. It is basically outraged by the fact that many of the social benefits of Austrian officials and officials are very often paid with the emphasis of almsense, with the emphasis on the humiliation of those people who are dependent on them in emergency situations. Nevertheless, Mr Firlinger, you will not miss out on thinking about what this ominous word "deregulation" means in an economic system in which there are uneven conditions. Even within the EU, social and environmental imbalances In the field of competition, the EIA is constantly forced not only to discuss it but also to submit to the international trend in areas which are absolutely unecological. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] We have often discussed enough about the approval of plant protection products and fertilisers. The dilemma of the ÖVP is expressed massively. Social democracy has a relatively wide field in this area, in order to let your pre-thinking, like grade welfare, run free. There is also no problem with official economic policy, as the electorate's potential is relatively low among the social-democratic farmers. The EIA has greater difficulties in this area, ladies and gentlemen. And the EIA will also have to consider whether the same principles it calls for for agriculture apply to all other sectors of the economy. For even Commissioner Fischler has already found that it is also necessary to discuss enlargement of the East, and we also find this essential if the Single Market is not to end Europe in the former Iron Curtain. But then, Mr Schwarzböck, you will have to think about what this means for Austrian agriculture – but not only for Austrian agriculture, but for all economic sectors – and you will come to a dilemma that you cannot solve. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what Mr Schwarzböck has used for the farmers is that the future of farmers cannot be in reserves, even for all other occupations. However, I have a little suspicion that, in Austria, both of us close our eyes before the fact that many professional groups are already being forced into reserves, and I fear a little that in Austria we will become a great sanatorium in Europe, where more or less just the beautiful landscape counts. I have an article here in which fisherman says: Production of landscape – sold the beautiful area, the magnificent hotel industry, tourism, spas, medicine as well as the care provided by nurses and nurses. As a result, Austria will become Europe's old home. You then go to Austria in your pension, because it is beautiful, because the waters are clean, because people care for the meadows and pastures so beautifully, they are also paid for them – and the food for the large mass of the population is produced with the help of genetic technology and biotechnology in the large industries of Europe. Mr Schwarzenberger, you should think about this contradiction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] In connection with dairy farmers, I have only once referred to your objection. I said years ago that it would be a very small step towards ecologicalisation in the dairy sector. All Austrian farmers could become organic farmers in the dairy sector. That wouldn't be a problem at all. They have given me the answer that if there were no quotas there would be a flood of the milk market. At this point I became clear – as I said a few years ago – that the many arguments that agriculture would not secure our food have always been wrong. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] Now it is the argument of genetic technology, which is so briefly considered. Because the division, gene technology is good when plants that are resistant to pests are created, and genetic technology is bad when plants that are resistant to herbicides are created can only be called shortsighted! Mr Schwarzböck! I think you too depend on this theory. The genetic engineering in the plant sector produces crops that are exclusively trimmed to success and survival and disperse all other wild plants, just as the crops have already done in recent years and decades over large continents. In the cereals sector, there is already an enormous dispersal of wild-grain varieties without genetic technology. They know very well that in most parts of our earth there are only very certain varieties of wheat. We only have very few reservoirs where wild cattle plants occur. Even in the home of these plants, in Asia, one is already in the process of ruining the last areas with the Multis. I would ask you to discuss this seriously, because this is a massive error in the assessment. I also believe that Mr Barmüller's request is worthy of discussion and that this request can also be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Langthaler has already tabled the request I wanted to make before. I am sorry that I have not been able to hold on to the seriousness of my first speech, but the simultaneousity of the events makes it sometimes impossible to take action here accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18122	Mr Brix is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18149	Yeah, that's true, yeah, actually, a peach tree. Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On pages 29 and 30, the Green Report deals with water management and water protection, and I would like to address it briefly. The water economic conditions of Austria are actually very good, and we can be very proud of our water, which is immensely important. Half of it is groundwater, and it doesn't look very good anymore. The fact that most of the groundwater, half of the groundwater in Austria, is already at risk, is mainly due to the over-fertilization. In addition, soil and water have recently been poisoned mainly by the plant protection product Atrazin. Now that this plant protection product – thank God – is forbidden to remove a kilo of atrazin from drinking water, 20 million schilling must be spent. Federal Minister! Therefore, I have the following requests to you: First: This ban must continue to be maintained. Secondly, As it is known that since January 1996, complaints by Ciba-Geigy and Kwizda have been taking place again, aimed at abolishing this atrazine ban, we must make a special effort to ensure that this withdrawal is not carried out. If these are to be done, then new provisions must be made. I see another danger moment: In the EU, a toxicological evaluation process of 86 pesticides is currently under way, including atrazine. If Atrazin is included in these positive events, it should also be authorised in Austria. I see this as a major danger, and we are required to avoid this danger in view of our responsibility on European soil. – They say: Toxicity is not the basic evil, because a risk of poisoning is low. That's right. The danger of atrazine lies in a very different area: especially in the carcinogenic risk. Federal Minister! In the serious situation of Austrian groundwater, we are really required to use the money that is to be provided to make sense. The wastewater treatment level is already between 85 and 95 percent in Austria. If this is to be further increased, the money, as I and as we believe, is not applied properly. We believe that it would be better to use this money to restore and safeguard groundwater.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18195	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18217	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The fact that two SPÖ environmental politicians have spoken at the end of this debate shows that in the future we want to deal more closely with the chapter on environmental protection and agriculture and forestry. I believe that this can also be done in a fair way if one does not overdo anything positive or negative, if one does not beautify, but adheres to facts. I have to say to Mr Schrefel that he has not adhered to facts. That's what I'm going to give to colleagues Wabl. The extent of the damage to the forest caused by the wild is indeed remarkable, and one has to talk about it and try to remedy this problem as well. In his speech, Mr Brix dealt with the water, in particular the groundwater problem. We will also be very concerned with this problem, such as nitrate problems in the field of agriculture. I would like to say quite clearly here that I do not share the opinion of my Mrs Health Minister on the next nitrate regulation and will try to convince her of my view, which is also the opinion of many colleagues in the environmental group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the 1994 forest report. In fact, there are already very specific data for 1995. In addition, it is recommended that everyone read the "Ecobalance sheet Forest 1995" by the Statistical Central Office. ==References====External links== In March 1996, there is a very basic article on the state of the forest after 1995, which shows that there are trends towards positive changes. The fact is that Austria is one of the better countries in Europe in terms of tree damage, about 8 percent in crown lighting. But this does not mean that our forest is pumping healthy. Of course, it's something to do. A problem circle concerns the load associated with ground close ozone. Today, together with the Federal Minister for the Environment, we were able to present a 25-point package of measures, which will certainly have a positive impact on the forest. Finally, I would like to make a comment that is very important to me: Once again, I must say that we have such an important debate too much later. The key to this is a tactics of the Freedom Party. And what makes me particularly worm is the fact – and this has already occurred to me repeatedly now – that in the discussion of the urgent and even now the leader of the Freedom Party is far from present. This shows that he has only a tactical and non-objective interest in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Where is your leader?]] I should like to say that Mr Stadler's absence has had a very positive impact on the climate here today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18266	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Reichhold. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18288	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I only have a few minutes of speaking time available. This is not due, however, to the fact that we are holding this debate here at midnight, but rather to the fact that the agricultural policy as a whole will not be given too much importance in the House as a whole; the opposition politicians can therefore not articulate themselves too much. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today's agricultural debate has partly been very humorous, with a kind of comic that has never existed in this House and which is unusual. On the other hand, when I think about Mr Schwarzböck's speech, this debate was also marked by the concern about the future of agriculture in Austria as a whole. We are now well a year in the European Union. We liberties have never made a success of the fact that this accession has come too quickly, especially for agriculture. In some areas the preparation was too low, in others it did not at all take place. Because of this, of course, we have great concerns and problems today. However, we are now sitting in a joint boat in Europe, and we must note that now the mistakes made by others - such as the English - must also be borne by the Austrians that, even if they cannot do so, the Austrians suffer damage from a mistake made by another Member State. It is now up to the European Union to prevail. I believe that it will be necessary in the future to establish national consensus on important issues in order to be able to work together in Brussels and to implement important concerns for our country, in particular in the common agricultural policy. I feel it is outrageous and incomprehensible that an Austrian at the head of the Commission, Commissioner Fischler, totally disregards and breaks through this principle. I know he's there for all the Member States. It is, however, an outrageous thing for me that fishermen are now calling for a reduction in the ban on imports of British beef and veal. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a scandal!]] In this context, Mr Minister, although it is not for me at all and is not my job, and Mrs Krammer, too, must really praise the fact that they have strongly represented the Austrian position in Brussels. Federal Minister! However, I must criticize you for not being able to compensate for the massive loss of income suffered by the Austrian farmers through the BSE disease. You know that there is a lot of surplus money in the European Union – and this has already been mentioned by our colleague Aumayr today. We can't stand to see how almost exclusively the English contaminants enter everything, but almost nothing has been done for the Austrian farmers up to now! The only action was an intervention measure and you will have to give me a right to say that this intervention measure is far from sufficient for the European Union to compensate for the massive price and income losses of Austrian farmers. It is no wonder, therefore, that 10 percent of potential courtlords say today: I'm hanging the hat on the nail, I don't want to continue my parents' farm. This fact must be a cause for all of us to think about. 10 percent of young people in agriculture have migrated from agriculture within a single year, i.e. in the first year following our accession to the EU. That's where the alarm bells have to ring! One reason for this is that youth really sees no more prospects. For example, today a magazine reads that a German trade chain is durable milk at the price of 3.50 S – 3.50 S! – offered to the consumer. This price is lower than the cost of raw milk in Austria. These giant trading chains in the European Union are now trying to conquer the Austrian market with a marketing offensive. You know very well, Mr Schwarzenberger, what we expect: a huge competition and a huge competitive pressure, which many Austrian dairy farmers are likely to cost the economic life. And again thousands of jobs will be lost. Where do the prospects remain when the price of cattle falls from 56 S to 36 S within the shortest time? – In view of this, it is understandable that youth says: There is no sense anymore, with our structures, our production conditions and the framework conditions set by this Federal Government, we can no longer keep up. Mr Gradwelt! I would also like to say a word to you: I have to say right to Mr Schwarzböck, who has cryptically indicated that, if we are to have a distribution discussion, we must also see the whole thing. According to Green Report, the average income of all farmers for 1994 – and we are discussing it today – was 144 000 p. The average income of peak earners in agriculture in the northeastern lowland and hillland in 1994 was 226,000 p. That's when you divide that by 14, in about 16,000 s per month. You know exactly that this 16 000 S, if you already have a distribution discussion... [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] It may be. But today we are talking about the Green Report. The average monthly income in the northeastern and hilllands was 16 000 p.m. and you will admit that this income is well below the average income of industrial workers. [[Abg. Koppler: Because the farmers are not at the union!]] Of course, because we have a bad representation! I would like to see a better representation, as I agree with you. But if you talk about a distribution discussion, you should also address this aspect. With our average income, we farmers have remained far behind the prosperity development of Austria. If today the Caritas Director says that 30 percent of the rural families in Austria live at the poverty line, this is a statement that does not come from a liberal or a farmer, but really from someone who needs to know himself in this area. But I am right, Mr Gradwelt, that it is necessary to discuss a fundamental change of support policy. We believe that EU funding policy in this form is indefensible and non-sustainable. Because 70 percent of the total subsidies for agriculture do not get farmers directly. Rather, these 70 percent flow to the agricultural and trade industries, and the remaining 30 percent of these agricultural subsidies mainly cash those large-scale farms that are not located in Austria at all, but that actually operate in the East of Germany or France or in other regions of Europe. These companies are today the real beneficiaries of this EU support system. I therefore believe that it makes no sense to talk exclusively about national support measures that we may be able to change within the EU. It seems far more important to me that there is a uniform position in Austria and that the nonsense and the insanity of this EU agricultural support system are in principle challenged. The large sums will now be distributed in Brussels. And I think that the argument of the work force in agriculture should be the first. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I assume that it is equally important for every single group in this House to maintain the settlement of the rural area and that jobs remain in existence in the rural regions. Federal Minister! Give me your ear, please. Finally, I would like to refer a sentence to the forest report. Much has been said about the conservation of forests today. I would like to ask you today, since you will still be speaking about whether it is true that 90 applications or 90 projects for forest renovations are in place in your section, but that – for which reasons always – 90 projects are put on ice and not realized in this year. This is an information I have received from a relatively high-ranking official. Many forest farmers are concerned about the implementation of these conservation forest renovation projects. Because, contrary to your public statements, delays are now taking place, and if measures are not taken quickly to catch up with the delay, avalanches and murals will be on the agenda in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18359	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18380	Mr President. High house! I should like to mention a few points in the short term, given the early morning hours. This debate on the Green Report and on other agricultural issues leads me to a personal conclusion: I think it is worrying and absolutely wrong if agricultural policy and agricultural policy discussions are increasingly changing – I say so very openly – to social policy debates there and there. Agriculture is part of the economy, and it is therefore my aim and must be to make sense of the agricultural policy that farmers will have to be able to generate their income to a substantial extent in future through economic activity, by selling their most diverse products. So it is economic policy that has to be discussed in connection with agricultural policy – and not social policy. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Can you become a little more concrete?]] Secondly, I also have the impression that clarifications on the question of compensation are necessary. From my point of view, it is too short if we are always talking about compensation or promotions, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to make it clear that we are dealing with various instruments and with different objectives. Degressive compensation, for example, pursues objectives other than those of the environmental programme, and the compensation allowance for less favoured areas does not pursue objectives other than those of the European Union's market organisation premiums. Therefore, we need to discuss these questions in the way they are to be discussed: How do we achieve the objectives with what support measures? And we must not forget that we must see this from the point of view of the competitiveness of the sector, the economic effects and the environmental, social and regional effects on the sector. It is too short if promotion is confused with social debate and social policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would consider it necessary to take into account additional issues which are obviously more often confused in this discussion: For example, investment aid is somewhat different from a compensation allowance for less favoured areas. Allow me to comment very briefly on the issue of the document or the opinion. I think it's a little strange when I'm always talking about a "secret paper." Because everyone got this documentation. And it is also clear that the main guidelines... [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Gradwelt! Listen! The main guidelines of this working document were published in the last issue in the "Funding Service". Mr Firlinger! I think it is quite normal, in the sense of scientific honesty, that a work must also be subject to the criticism of other scientists. I don't see in it any unfair intention or anything else; I think this is something in science quite common. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now a few more sentences on BSE. Although the measures taken in the BSE sector are known, they have clearly been forgotten. So I'll call them back in memory. In May alone, there was an increase in export refunds for 65 000 tonnes of intervention, resulting in an application for 80 000 tonnes of export licences at present. It is clear, for example, that there will be compensation payments for the cattle producers. It will be on the agenda at the beginning of June in the Council of Ministers for a concrete written proposal from the Commission. At present there is a debate on the basis of 650 million ECU. Monetary compensatory measures are to be taken for the final formal decision in Brussels. The question of overall orientation, such as labelling, is further being pursued by us. In the meantime, we have reached an agreement with many countries, as well as with the question of further feeding regulations and stricter requirements decided in the last Council. A few sentences on individual questions. Mrs Aumayr! I ask you at least to believe me as much as I do in newspapers. You can quote the "Salzburger Nachrichten" x-time: The fact is that a member of the Board of Directors of the Agricultural Market Austria receives 7 500 S per month. . I ask you to take note also of the fact that not everything is right, for example because of previous reports, in newspapers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] You said a member of the administration received 220 000 S annually. – However, if you take 7 500 S times 12, you come to a different result, quite clearly. I therefore ask you to respect the fact that this amount has been reduced for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Please also pay attention to what is written in response to questions. For I have the impression that answers from questions from our own group are not always read, Mr Reichhold. Mr Barmüller! National Park negotiations have not been stopped. On the contrary: Negotiations with the local authorities are under way intensively, and I am optimistic that we will have a basis not only for the Danube, but also for Upper Austria. Mr Koller! I went to an agricultural secondary school and learned forestry in a school that had no teaching forest. However, I think I understand something about forestry. They only speak of "teaching forest" when it covers 170 hectares. Other schools, however, must be 20 or 25 acres. So I ask you to see the relationships, too. Mrs Langthaler! We are currently trying to accommodate bioresearch in the EU research project. I am grateful for the suggestion that these research projects should also be extended to bioseeds. We will be happy to comply with this suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18466	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Is one of the rapporteurs asking for a conclusion? – That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-9 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. – This report has been adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Reichhold and comrades concerning EU compensation for Austrian cattle farmers. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the moratorium on requests for release from genetically modified organisms. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on research focus on organic farming. Whoever is in favour of it, may declare this with a sign of consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-10 of the supplements. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on measures to combat forest devastation by hunting game. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, please give an appropriate sign of your vote. – This is the minority. The request has not been accepted. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller and comrades concerning agreement under Article 15a B-VG on the establishment of a national park in the Danube region near Vienna and east of Vienna. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may declare this by a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to give the approval to the conclusion of the Convention, the Annexes and the Declaration in 7 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of it, please give a corresponding sign of approval. This request was adopted by a majority. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which is to say that this Treaty is a matter of a kind. Paragraph 50 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask for a sign to be given the same. This request was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 49 2 Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the embodiment of this contract must be carried out in French and Russian by means of a public consultation during the official hours in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This request has also been adopted. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of his report 61 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-21 of the supplements. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. 7. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on amendment 188/A by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Ing. Kurt Gartlehnerand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Budget Act (BHG-Novelle 1996) (144 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18669	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item: Report by the Committee on Budgets on motion for a resolution 188/A by Mr Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Budget Act 144 of the Supplements. The rapporteur is Mr Edler. I ask him to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18687	Mr President. High house! I will return the report on Agenda item 7. Deputies Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Ing. Kurt Gartlehner and comrades took place on 7 July. The request was submitted to the National Council on 15 May 1996. At its meeting on 15 October, the Committee on Budgets adopted the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In the course of the Deputies Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Ing. Kurt Gartlehner, Mag. Gilbert Trattner and Dr. Hans Peter Haselsteiner submitted an amendment concerning paragraphs 1 to 6 of the draft law. The same led to a motion for a resolution on the establishment of a working group to draw up proposals for alternative criteria in the BHG. In the vote, the draft law contained in Amendment 188/A was adopted unanimously, taking into account the amendment proposal. The motion for a resolution mentioned above was also adopted unanimously. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Budgets therefore makes the request that the National Council first give constitutional approval to the draft law annexed to the written report and, secondly, that the resolution annexed to the written report be adopted. I would ask you, Mr President, to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18746	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. For this debate, it was established that a maximum of three speakers per group speak at a speaking time of 10 minutes each. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gartlehner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18773	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The currently low rate of interest in the cash account of the Austrian National Bank requires a legal arrangement, a legal change, an adjustment of our federal budget law in order to implement a cost-conscious debt management. This legal regulation is an Austrian novity, not usual internationally and in itself unknown in this previously restrictive form. We therefore agreed in the Committee on Budgets to discuss a new form of government debt management on a legal basis, including in view of the third stage of economic and monetary union. As we need new objectives here, the Committee on Budgets, at its last meeting, unanimously decided to ask the Minister of State to set up a working group to deal with this issue intensively. Until these new rules are implemented, we hope that today's novels will be found, and we also hope that our colleagues in the Ministry of Finance will be able to carry out a cost-optimized debt management. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18813	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18835	Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the fact that we had to adapt the multiplier to changing conditions, i.e. to an increasing interest rate curve, it was also necessary to extend the possibility of issuing from currently 15 billion Schilling overall event to 18 percent of the approximately 200 billion schilling laid down in the Federal Budget Act in order to fulfil the issue of missions under economic conditions. That seems to be useful. The measures adopted by the Committee on Budgets and proposed today for decision-making were adopted unanimously by the Committee on Budgets. I think that this high consensus is a sign that it is very reasonable rules. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18865	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18886	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I too will not take advantage of the speaking time. We liberals have agreed to this request in the Committee on Budgets, because it is reasonable and sensible, and because it allows debt management to negotiate more favourable interest rates for long-term financing. This is important in that our interest rate share is currently moving in a scale of 90 billion schilling. Better management will hopefully lead to a reduction in the average interest rate, which is currently at a low interest rate of 7 percent, which we believe is too high. We hope that this proposal will lead to a more reasonable interest rate policy and that is why we have given our support to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18917	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18938	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens also agree to this revision of the federal budgetary law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18965	Mr Mag. Steindl is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18987	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can fully agree with the content of the statements made by my previous speaker. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19014	The last speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. – Or do you give up on the word? [[Abg. Kurzbauer makes a sobering gesture.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19044	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since I am the last speaker on this item on the agenda, I will, of course, take a short look at it. The previous speakers have already pointed out the point I would like to make. One point only: The creation of economic and monetary union will bring about changes in capital markets in the future. I welcome the fact that a working group – with the involvement of the Budget Committee – will be set up in the future to prepare for this challenge of economic and monetary union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19075	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Mr rapporteur, would you like a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. [[Call the ÖVP: The Haider is not there at all!]] I shall now vote on the draft law and the title and entry into 144 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This draft was adopted unanimously. We come to the third reading at the same time. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen – including those who were not present at the second reading but who give us the kindness with the third – who are in favour to give a sign of approval. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 144 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this resolution for a sign of approval. This resolution is also unanimously adopted. (E 11.) 8. Point Government Template: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Norway on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income and wealth (46 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19113	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item: Government template: Agreements with the Kingdom of Norway to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income and wealth taxes, 46 of the supplements. The preliminary consultation in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. For this debate, it was established that one speaker per group would speak at a speaking time of 5 minutes each. There is no word message. I therefore conclude the debate. Mr. Schwamlein? [[Abg. Swimmlein: I just wanted to get into the record once!]] You can also get into the protocol in other ways. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the vote. The subject-matter is the approval of the State Treaty in 46 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. . As Mr Wabl has now raised himself, I can see the unanimous adoption. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19151	We are now negotiating the request made by Mr Monika Langthaler to set up a committee of inquiry on the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection in relation to any close relationship between officials to Gentech companies or experts. In the meantime, this request has been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19206	We are going into the debate. I limit myself in the sense of § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure the speaking time in this debate at 5 minutes. Mrs Reitsamer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19236	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to make it very short, too. – Genetic engineering is discussed controversially and surely there will also be opponents and advocates in the Ministry of Health. In my opinion, however, this does not necessarily result in a close relationship with genetic engineering companies. The Greens have tabled a motion for a resolution at the last meeting, which was then withdrawn, namely concerning moratorium, suspension of release attempts for five years. Today he was brought in again. We made contact with the Greens at the time because the matter seemed reasonable, but we still wanted to see to what extent this proposal is compatible with the Genetics Act. There are incompatibilities. Nevertheless, I have massive concerns – even Mr Gradwelt has already said this today – because in my opinion, organic farming, genetic technology and agriculture are not compatible. The prohibited releases initially led to a failure of all requested release attempts. – 80 to 90 percent of the population consider the Ministry of Health's approach to this issue to be extremely positive. However, the debate on agriculture has also shown that a majority in this House opposes the use of genetic engineering in agriculture and in food production, but we cannot accept this request for the committee of inquiry because it is obsolete. Obviously, a joint approach on this matter was not desirable, although a joint resolution could have been tabled for the greening of agriculture and thus for non-genotechnic food. This was not the case, but I would like to stress, in order to rule out misunderstandings, that in the field of research and medicine, for example in the case of AIDS, cancer, diabetes and more, we are in favour of the application of genetic engineering. This is supported by our group, but we cannot accept, as has been said, the request for a committee of inquiry. I wish you a good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19281	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19302	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since I do not want Brussels to pay us sometime to eat what is produced in gene laboratories, and because I do not want us to go further into this modernisation case, we want to agree to the attempt to clarify the first steps in this direction, which were certainly not correct, in the form of an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19330	The next speech comes from Mr Dr. Schwimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19357	Who was so hot, Mr. Pumberger? – What I have to say about your speech, I know about your speech today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am going to withdraw the minutes of this, Dr. Pumberger, and you will still be able to do so many times. If you are here as a doctor – as a doctor and academic – for a better knowledge of what you have done today, you should hold back at this time when calls are made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! But now to the request for a committee of inquiry. Policy is in place to ensure that people do not need to be afraid, but it is not to be afraid. – This request by the Greens is intended to bring something into the room, to say, there are suspicious things, there is some kind of political conspiracy in the Ministry of Health, so one must be afraid. [[Abg. Wabl: This is not a committee of inquiry, but a committee of inquiry!]] With the help of a modern and very rigid genetic engineering law two years ago, we have made sure that no one in Austria needs to be afraid of risks of genetic engineering. We have also made sure that genetic engineering opportunities can be used. Today, without genetic engineering, no human insulin could be produced for millions of diabetics, without genetic engineering, without genetic technology, the "factor VIII", which is absolutely necessary for bleeding, could not be produced artificially. What risks are associated with persistent plasma preparations were seen a few years ago, when the AIDS virus was not yet known and hundreds of bleeding were infected with it. With the "factor VIII" produced by genetic engineering, such risks as that of infection are excluded. In Austria, a preparation is produced on a genetic basis without that – not all over the world! – Organ transplants would not be possible. To stop that would, of course, be completely absurd, and no one could be for it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we have made sure that where there are concerns about where people are concerned and who are still skeptical, everything is subject to approval. In Austria, under the Genetic Engineering Act, no genetically engineered product – not only food, but also other things, such as glue, which contained genetically modified strength – can be placed on the market without authorisation. Each product must be marked, so the consumer cannot be carried around at the nose. As for these releases, there is a step-by-step procedure, a very strict step-by-step procedure. That company that has not complied with the law must bear the consequences for it and will suffer an economic damage which is likely to go far beyond the administrative penalty because we have a strict genetic engineering law. This is what we have decided to do. However, we have nothing left for suspicions that only serve to make people unnecessarily afraid. That is why we reject such a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19422	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is claimed from this point of view that no one should be afraid of the risks of genetic engineering, then, ladies and gentlemen, one must object to this, and that is because you know that, if there is still such a small risk in the field of genetic engineering, Mr Schwimmer – and Risks exist, there can be no doubt about it – if these risks become striking, then there is no liability under the Genetic Engineering Act. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: He does not know and will not know!]] There are normal liability schemes which represent liability for debt, but basically no provision is made in the genetic engineering law you are described as such as strict to prevent illegal action. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Mr Barmüller, as a lawyer, you should know: the criminal law also does not protect against the imposition of illegal measures!]] That's right! That is why we need to consider how, Mr Schwimmer, where there are strong economic interests, we can effectively protect ourselves with measures other than bureaucratic obstacles, for example by establishing a very strict liability. This is something that can be useful in this context. But to cheat on it is wrong, you know that too! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As regards this request from the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention all three requests for approval: It is very important and should also interest the ÖVP that there are human refreshments there. I raised this problem on Monday at a press conference – Mr. University Professor Dr. Peter Ruckenbauer has also confirmed it –: There is too much closeness of individual university professors to the approval instruments of the Ministry of Health, where it is not clear why, for example, an interuniversity research centre for agricultural biology leased areas, in order to then provide them with sugar research Tulln GesmbH for suspension, why Mr. University Professor Peter Ruckenbauer was personally present in the digging and excavating of gene-manipulated potatoes, why personnel from the close range of the federal government – together with staff from a private company – are present in and participate in a clearly illegal act. All of these are questions which, of course, need to be further addressed in this context. Although we believe from the Liberals that there are also expectations and hopes in connection with genetic technology which are desirable. There are, of course, also risks that require careful action. It is also necessary to clarify how the cross-links of human and economic interests are running within the individual approval committees, the individual expert committees, expert committees, and in the field of the genetic engineering Commission. That, ladies and gentlemen, will be the subject of written questions. And in our opinion, it may also be the subject of a parliamentary committee of inquiry – and that is why we will give our approval to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19508	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Langthaler, reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be considered in the reform of the Rules of Procedure, I think, that if a request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry was made, the applicant or the applicant would have the opportunity at the beginning of the debate to explain the request, because then it might not have been possible to reach this misunderstanding with you, Mrs Reitsamer. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This request is not about this moratorium of five years. We are still, of course, ready to negotiate, and we very much hope to be able to negotiate with you here. This is about the investigation of possible developments between health sector officials and company representatives, especially about this Tullner sugar research GesmbH. It is you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who are in need of your role in such a committee of inquiry, but you are of course not an official, but a Member, talking about political conspiracy! I can still remember our discussions on the decision-making of the genetic engineering law. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: What's this understatement?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: That's scandalous!]] You must have a bad conscience if you react in such a frenzy. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like I can still remember this decision-making, because the whole story began with the discussion about the genetic engineering law. In the negotiations and committees it became apparent that prominent company representatives were those who formulated this law. Not you and not Mr. Bobek had all the paragraphs in mind and knew exactly what it was all about, but it was these company representatives, above all Dr. Zacherl, who knew exactly what it was all about. Obviously because he had written this law as a priority, he also knew what it was about. These incredible developments, which exist, continue to take place. In all three cases at the Ministry's hearing procedure, it was clearly noted that there was no fair procedure at all, but that, from the outset, there were incredible personal contacts with the company representatives, so that an objective assessment was no longer possible. It was from the outset impossible for the health resort to have sponsored the Seibersdorf application with 15 million Schilling, but at the same time it was required that it should have been objectively assessed whether this request was in line with the criteria laid down. ==References== The meeting of the Scientific Advisory Council on the release attempt at the Genkartffel in Tulln was held on April 1996, Mr Swimmer. In all other countries where there is a genetic engineering law, the applicant will be heard, and our genetic engineering law also provides for the project applicant to be heard at such a meeting. In this case, however, it was different: The applicant was present to the project promoter at this meeting without interruption. We know this from various other participants. It has been put to the vote continuously and mainly by the company representatives at this meeting, and it has already been clearly signaled at the meeting that there will anyway be a positive decision. Finally, the illegal suspension followed. – It is absolutely credible what several suspended or cancelled company representatives are now saying, namely that they have had corresponding commitments from the Ministry and have not doubted at all that there could have been a negative notice in this matter, although the Ministry of the Environment has repeatedly requested documents because until the end this company has not complied with all the requirements relating to documents. Nevertheless, the company was traded due to these personal commitments and also due to the long-standing good contacts there. A release attempt has been made illegally. There is also the suspicion of individual officials being personally involved in these very rich companies. It is necessary to make it clear in a committee of inquiry that it is not possible for rich genetic engineering industries to negotiate, buy, or can do whatever they want to do, but there must be a fair procedure in the case of such sensitive matter as in the case of release attempts. We know sensitive areas in ministries, where problems have always arisen: This was always in pharmacology when it came to the authorisation of drugs, it was a lot of money when it came to officials being responsible for granting medications which, of course, brought enormous financial benefits. In the area of the environment, we are always aware of this where waste exports and very high financial risks are concerned and, of course, there is also a great risk for companies. We want to know this clearly, and we want a rule of law to examine how such a company is illegally suspended and calling on the officials to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19588	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Langthaler on the establishment of an investigation committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Reading of parts of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19625	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the official minutes of this sitting with reference to item 7 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable the immediate wording of the decision taken by the National Council. This Protocol concerns point 7: Report by the Committee on Budgets on amendment 188/A by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Ing. Kurt Gartlehnerand comrades concerning a federal law, with the federal budget law being amended 144 of the supplements. The Official Protocol shall read as follows: "The draft law will be adopted unanimously, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 144 of the second and third reading supplements. The resolution annexed to the Committee's report 144 of the Supplements is adopted unanimously." In so far as the version of the Official Protocol is concerned. Does this raise objections? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19677	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought up to 211/A in the form of requests 192/A to 211/A. Questions 603/J to 645/J have also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled to take place at 1.51 a.m., which is at the end of this meeting. The meeting is closed.
